This is the first occasion since the last election on which the people of Australia have had an opportunity to listen to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I believe they would be very disappointed to note that on this occasion the Leader of the Opposition did little to substantiate the confidence of the people who returned increased numbers' to the Opposition side of the House. It was interesting to note at one stage during the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition that he had no more than 2 of his front benchers supporting him. Most of the time he had 5 out of a total of 12. At no time did he have more than 6. At the end of his remarks I think there were fewer of his supporters in the chamber than when he started. Even I, as a mere back bencher, feel that I can claim a better percentage of support from my colleagues than he can from his. No doubt the people of Australia are very disappointed indeed. 
This afternoon we heard from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  both experienced members of parliament. They put forward their side of a situation, as one would expect. I think the easiest way to sum up my advice to these gentlemen would be to say that if they want to succeed in the future they should put forward some suggestions which are practical and workable. I believe that those three honourable gentlemen whom I have mentioned have vilified the past, distorted the present, and shrunk from the future. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask you to pass on my personal congratulations and the congratulations of the constituents of Wimmera to  Mr Speaker,  firstly on his re-election to that important position and secondly on his recognition by  Her  Majesty. I would like also to congratulate the mover, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and the seconder, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  of the motion before the House. I believe that both these gentlemen have made excellent contributions to the debate as, indeed, have some of the other new members who have contributed to it so far. This reminds me of a statement by the Leader of the Opposition. He cannot even count; a few minutes ago he said that four honourable members made their maiden speeches this afternoon. In fact, there were six. 
I take this opportunity of thanking the people of the Wimmera electorate - the people I represent - for returning me to this, the Twenty-seventh Parliament, despite all the comments which have emanated from the Opposition over a period of time that the people have lost confidence in the Government. I sincerely thank the people in my electorate for their confidence in me. 
This evening I wish to make a few comments about the problems of primary industry in Australia. I think it would be fair to say that not since the 1930s has Australia faced such a challenge as it does today. That was the time of the depression when there was unemployment. A similar situation exists today, but possibly for a different reason, that reason being the cost of production to the primary industries, a world glut of our commodities and, naturally, a lack of demand, finishing up with low prices. I recall vividly as no doubt most honourable members in this place do, that in the early 1950s there was a huge cry throughout the world for increased production of foodstuffs. Unfortunately, today in most primary industries, the reverse is the position. Perhaps one exception is the wool industry. Australia can dispose of its wool at a price. If it were not for the Japanese Trade Agreement, heaven only knows what the price would be today because we all realise that the vast bulk of our wool is exported to Japan. The tendency of the Opposition is to blame the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the Australian Country Party, and the Government. 
Honourable members opposite are interjecting. I am interested to hear some interjections supporting that statement. 
This is what Opposition members have been doing for quite some time. This is why T. suggest that the Opposition is misleading the people of Australia. It knows very well that it is not anything that has been done by this Government that has affected the wheat industry. The trouble in that industry has been caused chiefly by a lack of demand on the overseas markets. If the Government were to be changed, as the Opposition would like, what would be seen? The wheat industry would go right back to the conditions that existed in the early days of stabilisation when the return to the average wheat grower was about £6 10s a week, with about a 3% return on capital. This is what would happen if the Opposition were to gain control of the government benches. 
Let us look at some of the comments made by the new  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  I do not have time to read them all. When he was addressing a meeting at the Monash University he declared that his organisation would strongly resist further efforts by the employers and the Government to use arguments about the cost price squeeze and its impact on farmers as a reason to hold down wage levels. I do not think  Mr Hawke  is a supporter of the Government. I believe the problem must be isolated and an answer looked for. Today Australians are told that they have a very buoyant economy, that they are living in prosperous times and that they have full employment. But does this apply to the rural sector? Anyone who understands the rural situation will appreciate what producers are thinking at the present time. Unfortunately, prosperous times and full employment can and do increase costs. The rural sector cannot pass on such costs. 
If one looks at statistics from the Reserve Bank one finds that rural advances^ have never been higher than they are today. In 1959 they amounted to $41 lm. In subsequent years they were $980m, $993m, SI, 050m, Sl,088m, Sl,152m, $l,302m, Si, 414m, $l,608m, Sl,875m, until at the present time they total $ 1,972m. This is an all time high. If one looks at the trading banks alone one finds that advances to the rural industries have increased. The figure in 1949 was $2 14m. Today it is $939m. 
This is a very big increase. In what sector of the rural industry do we see these increases? These figures exclude term losses from the trading banks which at present total S725m. We find that in 1961 the figure was S220m for the grazing industries, chiefly the wool industry. Today it has increased to $327m - a 50% increase in 8 years. 
Wheat is in an even worse position. It has gone from $36m to $94m or an increase of 250%. Dairying has gone from $83 m to $102m, which is not a great deal of difference. The combination of other rural industries has gone from SI 10m to $22 1 m. If we look at primary producers throughout Australia we find that the average advance is in the vicinity of $8,000. If we are mindful of the fact that there are many primary producers with a small advance or, in many cases, none at all this means that many of them have borrowed a substantial figure. Of course, it is no good for these people to continue to borrow if they cannot service that particular debt. During the same period rural deposits have remained static so it cannot be said that because of inflation one borrows more, one has more and one finishes up with more. That is not the case at all. ft is a case of the deposits remaining static. 
Many of the wheat and wool industry people are heading for a very rough time, lt is true that they have certain advantages. They have a privileged rate of interest ranging from 6% to 71%. Unfortunately, in the past I believe that this low interest rate has had a tendency to create a form of cheap money and as such this has tended to encourage people to chase land and other items which, of course, over a period has increased the price. Low interest rates have been partly responsible for increasing land values, but I am not suggesting that we should increase these rates because this would mean that people would be paying a high rate of interest on a highly valued piece of country, but I believe we should follow this thing through by perhaps reducing the interest rates even further until these people find themselves out of difficulty even if it means that we have to go to the Treasury to do so. Overdrafts are increasing and whilst they are increasing so will the costs of the primary pro- 10722/70-  R-Pl  ducer rise, particularly when we see in some instances an increase in costs of up to 3% in a year. 
Wool prices are equal to 1949 levels. Wheat prices are even worse. In the 1947- 48 season the average return to the wheat grower less freight was $1.43 a bushel. The last year for which figures have been made available - that is the last year for which the pools have been finalised - was 1964-65 in which we saw a price of 134.9c a bushel, less freight. The estimate for the present pools that have not been finalised, will be well and truly under that figure - a very grim picture. Added to this grim picture is the fact that we are in a time when growers cannot dispose of their surplus wheat and some form of restrictions have had to be introduced. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has repeatedly mentioned in this House and in numerous places outside these restrictions were applied at the instigation of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and were supported by the States. But the Opposition is trying to sheet the blame for these restrictions on the Minister for Primary Industry and it has succeeded politically. The Minister is the bogyman as far as honourable members opposite are concerned. They have convinced a lot of people that this is the situation whereas in actual fact it is not. 
I believe the primary industries are facing a tough time. I can bear out this statement. If we look at the taxation returns of primary producers we find that the mean income of primary producers in the 20 years from 1947 to 1967 has increased by only 50% and I venture to say that in the next 2 years or so it certainly will not be anything like 50% more than the 1947 figures. Why is this? It is, of course, because of the lack of demand from abroad for our primary products and the substantial increase in costs at home. According to a lot of people the Government has done nothing. I cannot go along with that claim. Since it came to office in 1949 this Government has contributed tremendously to the growth of our primary industries. The real question is: Is this contribution enough? If we listen to some people the answer is yes and if we listen to others the answer is no. I believe that the real answer is somewhere between those answers. I might add that that is not a political answer. But I believe, as do many other people, that further assistance could be given to primary producers, but only after negotiations with the industry concerned. The Opposition will, of course, promise the world but we must remember that it will be on its conditions and not those of the primary producers. As a member of Parliament and a member of a Party which believes in free enterprise 1 will not tell the industry what is good for it. We will make suggestions at appropriate times but it is still up to the industry itself to decide how it will handle its commodities from time to time. 
During recent times the Opposition has put forward all sorts of suggestions to deal with the wheat problem and I suppose it would be fair to say that very few of the suggestions put forward would be workable. There are certainly differences of opinion amongst members of the Opposition. In fact, they are numerous. I recall that last year a Labor candidate in a wheat growing electorate in Victoria had a completely different opinion to the one held by a front bench member of the present Opposition, namely the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  These people do not even seem to get together with their ideas. A few moments ago I mentioned  Mr Hawke.  He, of course, believes in a shorter working week and in higher wages. He has confessed that he believes that the small primary producer is uneconomic and must go. If he gets his way these are the sort of things which will not help primary producers. I am sure he would have the support of many members of the Opposition here today. 
Let me quickly enumerate some of the things the Commonwealth Government has done to help the primary producer. It has provided a depreciation investment allowance of 40% in the first year and 120% over 5 years. It also proposes to reduce estate duty by up to 50% for primary producers. A Bill covering this will be brought down shortly. Another proposal is the averaging of incomes over a 5 year period up to an amount of $16,000. In addition there are concessions on forced sales of stock in times of adversity. While on the subject of income tax, I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  will take a very close look at the suggestion I have put forward to him in relation to paying income tax on what we call over-quota wheat that is not acceptable to the Australian Wheat Board. Following this case through one finds that it is possible, unless something is done about it, for a primary producer actually to be paying this year income tax on wheat that he cannot sell - it has no value at all - and, of course, next year be will find himself in a position where he will not be paying any tax at all. 
There is no need for me to talk about the superphosphate bounty because its importance is well known to primary producers. The tractor bounty and the research programmes are other forms of assistance to primary producers. Let us look at wheat stabilisation. Since 1961 the Commonwealth has paid out $155m as a result of an agreement with the wheat industry. We recognise that in the early stages of wheat stabilisation the growers contributed not less than $200m to the wheat consumers in Australia. This was at a time when the price was high. We do not hear very much about that today. Of course, when that $200m was made available by the wheat growers it had a different value from what it has today; no doubt it would have been equivalent to $500m or $600m today. Under the present plan and in present conditions of wheat selling it is possible that in this year alone the Commonwealth contribution will be as much as S40m. 
Then there is the Commonwealth contribution for devaluation compensation, wool promotion research, dairying and so on. These are some of the matters in respect of which I believe we must give credit to the Government. I remind the House that during the regime of the present Minister for Primary Industry more money has been paid out to rural industries than under any previous Minister for Primary Industry during a similar period. This is a great tribute to the present Minister. I thank him for what he has done for primary industry. I have complimented him on numerous occasions and I believe that when the history of this crisis is written he will stand high in the minds of the people. I believe also that State governments could make a contribution to assist in some of the areas that I have mentioned tonight. They have a responsibility for railway freights, decentralisation and things of this sort. The Commonwealth Government can help in other ways. 
There is ample room within the PostmasterGeneral's Department for help in solving some of our rural problems. This idea of asking an individual subscriber to pay as much as $2,000 in order to continue his telephone service in some areas is just not acceptable. It is ridiculous to think that people must put up with that sort of thing. Then there is the unfair cost of trunkline calls between centres. Numerous people in Australia today have to make a trunkline call to their local or nearest business centre. This is a very high penalty that they must pay for living in remote areas. 
I could not resume my seat without making a very brief mention of the wool industry. This is another industry which is in a desperate situation. Many graziers have paid high prices for land, stock and machinery. Their rates of all types are high because of high land values. Their normal operating expenses are high because of the increased cost of living. Yet at a time when all these costs are increasing we find that the price of wool has now reached the level of 1949 values - a very low price indeed. We cannot blame the Government for any of this because we have a free auction system and countries throughout the world can send their representatives here to bid for the wool as they wish. On two occasions the Government has advanced a proposition for the Australian wool growers, but on each occasion it has been rejected by referendum. 
Recently the Government has assented to a proposal known as the cost compensation scheme which, it appears, will go the same way as the other two propositions went. On a number of occasions 1 have been asked what the Government intends to do about this, but I believe that the fundamental rule applying to most industries is based on orderly marketing with grower control. This is the fundamental principle and it is one that the Opposition at present seems completely to overlook. The growers want to have control of their own industry. Some years ago we thought the answer to all our problems would be solved by the establishment of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the members of which were appointed by two grower organisations and finally by a third organisation. We thought that through this body a group of people would for the first lime be able to speak for the industry. Unfortunately, this was not the case. People are starting to lose confidence in that body, for a number of reasons. Possibly it will be found that the biggest percentage of growers has the smallest voice. Many growers are now asking that appointments to the AWIC be made by referendum so that the individual growers will have a voice on the Conference. 
I propose now to repeat what I said earlier about primary industries. We have a free enterprise government and we must be prepared to accept the wishes of people in the primary industries rather than dictate to them. Often government dictation would appear to be palatable, but in the long term it could mean the total socialisation of the industry if we had a change of government and direction from the government. I conclude by saying that the objective should be for the industries to aim at unity among themselves through their organisations. They should present a united front and have the backing of their leaders. If they are wrong it is up to the individual's to correct the situation. The industry can then put forward a sound argument and a justified case. Subsidies are a short term answer; certainly they are not a long term answer. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Scullin and remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
 I cannot let go unchallenged the statement made by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  to the effect that the present chaos is the result of and was caused by the recent introduction of the wheat stabilisation plan. I draw attention to a few facts and figures in relation to harvests since the stabilisation plan was re-negotiated. In the year 1966-67 the wheat harvest was approximately 438 million bushels. In the subsequent year, it was approximately 538 million bushels. At that stage, a harvest of 438 million bushels was the record. It cannot be said that the stabilisation plan was responsible actually for the increase in production in that year. The sales of wheat within Australia are a very, very small percentage of the total world harvest. Consequently, irrespective of what the price may be, it would affect only that portion that is sold within Australia. If honourable members consider the amount of wheat that has been consumed in the form of flour in the year 1968-69 they will see that 44.5 million bushels was used and that 9.8 million bushels went for stock feed. This was out of a harvest of approximately 500 million bushels. 
So I cannot go along with, nor can I let go unchallenged, the statement made by the honourable member for Moore to the effect that it was a decision of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that was responsible for this chaotic position. I believe that the Minister has done a magnificent job in trying to sort out the problem that has been brought about by the international situation and not by what has taken place inside Australia. If the Committee looks at the world's production figures as they were presented by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  earlier this afternoon, it will see that the amount of wheat grown in Australia is small in comparison with what has been grown in other countries; and then, of course, the Committee will appreciate that, no matter what we do, we cannot increase or decrease the overall amount grown throughout the world. 
As far as I am concerned, the Minister for Primary Industry has done everything possible to assist the wheat industry. When it comes to putting the bl'ame on him, I say that this has always been thrown on the Minister by the Opposition whereas, in actual fact, all the suggestions regarding the quotas that we hear so much about were first made as recommendations by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. That is a wheat body which is the spokesman for the wheat industry. This was not by the Minister at all- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I ask the honourable member for Wimmera to confine his remarks a little more closely to the actual subject matter of the Bill. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have said all that I wanted to say. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was rather amazed to hear, firstly, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and then the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  take the line that they took this afternoon in attempting to debate the broad issues of social services. Both honourable members have had ample experience in this House to know that there are plenty of opportunities for them to raise questions of a general nature relating to social services. They can do so in the Address-in-Reply debate. They can do so during the debate on the Estimates. In fact there are all sorts of opportunities - even when i:L..:&gt;ns the motion for the adjournment of the House - for them to do so. I am amazed that they should have taken that line this afternoon. 
In brief, the two Bills we are discussing are aimed at amending the Social Services Act and the Repatriation Act. It is intended to increase the married rate pension to that of a single rate in cases where married couples are separated and do not have the financial advantage of living together, or, in the words of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  to provide 'increased pensions for married means test pensioners who lose the economies of living together because of failing health'. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  referred to people being hospitalised. I think the honourable member should have another look at the Social Services Bill because clause 3 (c) refers to: 
the living expenses of a married person and the husband or wife of that person are, or are likely to be, greater than they would otherwise be by reason that those persons are unable, as a result of the illness or infirmity of either or both of them, to live together in a matrimonial home; and 
the inability is likely to continue indefinitely, . . . 
I believe that the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  answered this doubt in the mind of the honourable member for Scullin and did so quite satisfactorily. After all, as the honourable member for Mitchell said, when a person is in a home the situation is different from that which exists when a person is in a hospital. 
These Bills are very limited in scope. I do not intend to traverse all angles of social service or repatriation problems. I want to raise the question of chronic cases. I believe such cases are covered by the preamble to the Bill because it uses the words 'illness' and 'infirmity'. Under the repatriation provisions, all pensioners receiving pensions of 100% or above are entitled to free medical treatment but this does not necessarily apply so far as a chronic case is concerned. The only time that a chronic case can receive free medical treatment, following upon declaration that the case is chronic, is when the person concerned can qualify under the means test for ordinary social service assistance. In other words, to cut this down to brief terms, one can say that the phrase a person with means' really means that one must first spend one's own money before becoming entitled to assistance. 
I think most people would agree that the people in real need are those with the worst types of illness - in other words the chronic cases. These patients should receive more consideration than persons with temporary illnesses. If a person stubs his toe and loses a day's work it is not a terrible tragedy. It is the people who are bedridden or hospitalised because of chronic illness that we should look at very closely. I know that the new Minister for Repatriation is very sympathetic to this class of people and I know he is looking closely into their circumstances. I am sure the Government also agrees that we must endeavour to do something along these lines to help those people because they are the people in most need. It does not matter whether this aid takes the form of hospital and benefit fund assistance or whether it is dealt with in our social service legislation or by some other means; we have to do something about these people. 
These Bills will increase the rate payable to eligible married couples from $26.50 to $30 per week. The increase relates to those married couples who virtually are living apart and thus come within its scope. We must not overlook the fact that such people are also entitled to a supplementary allowance of $2 each, making a total of $4 a week, if they have income of not more than $3 a week each, or $6 for the married couple. I have noted that under the means test being implemented this would be the highest rate of earning that one could have and become a pensioner. Under the ordinary means test a married couple may earn $70 a week whereas it is proposed to increase that sum to $77. This is very important. If one looks at the means test relating to property the figure is being increased to $40,840. This is a very substantial increase and, of course, will help a lot of people in this category. 
I do not wish to speak at any length this afternoon because these Bills are self explanatory. I do not think there is any need to go into details. I commend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Minister for Repatriation for bringing forward legislation to deal with a situation which most people regarded in the past as anomalous. I hope the Bills will have speedy passage through this House and that they will be implemented in a very short period of time. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that in recent weeks a number of wool grower organisations throughout Australia, the latest being the New South Wales Graziers Association, have carried resolutions supporting the principle of a single marketing authority for the sale of wool in Australia? The meetings were held because of the present crisis in the industry. Will the Minister discuss the proposal with the industry with a view to implementing it at an early date? 
lt was not my intention to take part in the adjournment debate this evening, but after listening to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  indulging in verbal clowning with a certain amount of political bias I was moved to get to my feet to answer him. After the honourable member for Grayndler, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  attempted to carry on the usual tactics of the present Opposition of trying to confuse the wheat growers of Australia. Unfortunately, over the last 2 years or so it has been very true that wheat growers have been confused, and most of this confusion has been brought about toy what one could call half truths, semi-truths and part truths, as has been stated by the honourable member for Riverina this evening. 
Yet much of what the honourable member said was true - wheat growers, wool growers and other primary producers throughout Australia are going through difficult times, but it is not true to say that there is only one Government that can respond to the call of the  primary  industries. Those were the words that the honourable member used. He went on to make quite a few accusations that I believe are most misleading to growers. The first thing we should look at is the difference between the two so-called spokesmen of the Opposition on the subject of primary industries. When we analyse their comments over a period of time we find that their opinions differ greatly. I objected to a statement by the honourable member for Riverina that wheat growers, despite the fact that we have had good rains and are about to plant our crops, do nol know what is going to happen regarding the coming harvest - how much wheat they will be permitted to deliver, and so forth. I think that was what the honourable member said. Let us have a look at the matter. 
The honourable member for Riverina is fully aware that all moves in relation to wheat quotas were originally suggested by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. Every proposition put forward by the Federation to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has been accepted, even the price of the first advance. This year the Federation has recommended to the Minister a total delivery for the Commonwealth of 308 million bushels. It has asked the Minister for this on the assurance that the growers would receive $1.10 as the first advance. This has been granted. I cannot recall, without notice, the exact quotas for each State but I do know that Victoria has a quota of 52 million bushels and I think that New South Wales, which is the State from which the honourable member for Riverina comes, has a quota of 108 million bushels. So it is not true to say that the growers do not know what they will be permitted to deliver. 
The next matter is tied up with the statement that there is only one government that will decide the issue. Distribution has absolutely nothing to do with this Government or the Minister for Primary Industry. This is the distribution in relation to individual growers and the honourable member for Riverina well and truly knows that the matter is entirely in the hands of the State governments. For example, it is in the hands of the Victorian Government to work out exactly how it will distribute the 52 million bushels. That Government is in the middle of working this out at the moment by way of special committees in association with the Victorian Farmers Union. So I believe that the statements that have been made by the honourable member for Riverina this evening and the statements that have been made in the past have been made very, very deliberately with a view of trying to mislead growers at the present time. 
As far as the honourable member for Grayndler is concerned, I did not think it worth while answering what he said, but seeing that I am on my feet I will do so. He referred to what he called the split in the present coalition. With the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  I was privileged to spend one day at the conference at Warrnambool. I want to tell the honourable member for Grayndler that the Australian Country Party is in a very sound and happy position in the State of Victoria when 800, 900 or even 1,000 delegates attend a conference to discuss problems that are associated with members of that Party. I also had the privilege of listening to a tape recording of yesterday's proceedings. It is true that many statements have been made by both sides - State and Federal members - but it is not true to say that the result of that conference is a real threat to the coalition. What the honourable member for Grayndler overlooks, of course, is that the section from Victoria within the coalition is only part of the coalition - it is only part of the minority party to which he refers. There is no fear whatsoever of the coalition breaking up because of what was said by the honourable member this evening. I am very proud of the fact that we can be classed as the parties to a shot gun wedding because, after all. this wedding has lasted for a long time. As far as I am concerned and as far as members of these parties are concerned, the coalition is going to last for a long time, unfortunately for the honourable member for Grayndler. 
1 suggest to the honourable member that it is Opposition supporters who are doing all the protesting. Does the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  still think that direction came from this place? If he does then I say that 1 have a duty to the public to expose the honourable member for Riverina, and others who have supported him, for what they really are. I leave it to the House to decide what I mean by that. Finally, dealing with the last part of his statement made last night, that part in which he said that the quantity of wheat that will be sold outside the Australian Wheat Board is greater than that inside, I would remind the honourable member that since 1948 - that is going back a few yean - the largest quantity of wheat ever consumed in Australia was 70 million bushels, 45 million bushels of which was used in the production of flour. The remainder, 25 million bushels, was used for stock feed and other purposes. The largest amount of stock feed ever consumed in Australia - 28.7 million bushels - in any one year was in 1964 during one of the bad droughts we had. Now, the Australian Wheat Board has had an assurance from the flour mills of Australia that they will purchase all their wheat through the normal channels as far as flour production is concerned. So the real question now is: What are these so-called interstate traders going to do with this amount of 50 million bushels of wheat that has been cited? It is absolutely ridiculous to think that there could be that amount of wheat. 1 would like to know where this wheat would be stored even if it were possible to purchase it. If we created a record in the amount of wheat used for stock feed it would be in the vicinity of only some 30 million bushels. 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation: Is it intended to expand and improve facilities at the Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital in Victoria? If this is so, can the Minister inform me of the type of improvements that are intended and what effects they will have in the interests of the patients? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the announcement this morning by the United States Department of Agriculture that a ban has been placed on imports of mutton from Australia. Can the Minister inform me of the reasons for such a ban and of what steps are being taken to deal with the matter? 
 1  ask the Treasurer whether it is true that he and the Minister for Defence have agreed to meet a delegation of primary producers from western Victoria later today. If this is so, can he give me and the producers of Victoria an assurance that any proposals put forward by the delegation will receive immediate and sympathetic consideration by him, as Treasurer, and the Government as a whole? 
In other words, the honourable member would upset the whole of the Wheat Board by differentiation? 
There are big wheat growers, there are medium wheat growers, and there are small wheat growers. How do you differentiate? These things are all very confusing. If I had plenty of time I could go on and quote many more of these remarks. I want to know just what is the policy of present Opposition members in relation to wheat. I think it is pretty fair to say that they are so confused amongst themselves they do not know where they are going. They make conflicting remarks. Consequently the wheat industry as such certainly has no confidence in them. The honourable member for Riverina this afternoon made some reference to the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. He quoted from a Press statement. I presume he quoted the Minister in context. I cannot dispute this because I do not have the Press statement in front of me. He said that the introduction of quotas will hurt. Of course it will hurt those wheat growers who are being affected. It hurts them because they are not growing the quantity of wheat that they wanted to grow. Of course it will hurt them. But it would hurt them much more in the long term if we did not have some form of quota and we just gave them an open go. What would the position then be? 
The honourable member for Dawson agrees that we must limit the amount of advance that we can give the wheat industry. If we were permitted to grow 500 million or 600 million bushels each year and we were able to sell only half of it, what would happen? We would have a storage problem. We would be spending millions of dollars on storage. As I said, the honourable member for Dawson, if he were in office, would not permit an advance from the Reserve Bank to cover it. What would happen? There would be no advance at all after a few years. So I think that it is about time that Opposition members brought themselves up to date. The honourable member for Riverina also said that quotas were initiated from Canberra but implemented by the States, or words to that effect. I want to quote from a statement attributed to a  Mr K.  McDougall, the then  president  of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. It was published in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 6th May 1969. The first 2 sentences of that report stated: 
On 13th March, the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation decided to restrict the production of wheat in Australia. The initiative was taken without prompting by the Commonwealth or State Governments. 
The honourable member for Riverina says it is not true. I think he should do a little more homework. Of course the initiative was taken by the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation, which is a very responsible body. The Minister for Primary Industry has said on numerous occasions that the initiative was taken by the Federation. Yet the honourable member for Riverina says it is not true. To my mind this is another occasion on which he is completely wrong, completely out of step with the legislation and completely out of step with the views of the people. Let me return to the Bill. Of course, we all realise that this Bill is rather simple and is confined to two issues. It is confined on the one hand to the question of implementing virtually complementary legislation as a result of the introduction of quotas by the State governments, and on the other hand giving the Australian Wheat Board permission to dispose of wheat other than for human consumption within Australia at a price below 171c per bushel, which was originally set out in the stabilisation plan, down to a guaranteed price of not less than 145c per bushel. They are the fundamental purposes of this Bill. 
As I said, the quota system is a very contentious issue in the minds of some people, particularly those people who try to ridicule the Minister for Primary Industry, the Government and the industry for which we are trying to implement something that it believes to be worth while. The Government's position is perfectly clear and always has been. While the Liberal-Country Party coalition remains in office it will certainly continue to be clear. We recognise the views of the industry. In this instance, of course, it is the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation. It put forward the plans to introduce quotas and it laid down the guidelines. It even went as far as to suggest to the various State Ministers for Agriculture and the Minister for Primary Industry the quotas for each State. It is entirely up to the States to implement the suggestion. 1 believe they have done a reasonable job in this regard. As a Victorian, naturally I am not satisfied with the quantity of wheat that the Federation allocated to Victoria. But that is history and I will leave it as such. 
I think the next question we have to ask is: Why do we have quotas? It appears that honourable members such as the honourable member for Grayndler do not have a clue as to why we introduced a form of restriction. They seem to forget that in years gone by the average production of wheat in Australia ranged between 200 million and 300 million bushels. It was just over 2 years ago that we reached a level of about 540 million bushels. However, we could dispose of only approximately half this amount. Yet some of these people seem to think that we can just go on continually increasing production. This of course is completely impracticable. That roughly is the situation. 
The next question we must ask is: Why did the industry expand? This was brought about by 3 factors. The first, naturally, was the general development programme brought about not by the Commonwealth Government saying: 'You will grow more wheat', as the honourable member for 
Grayndler tried to suggest a few minutes ago, but simply because of the economic policy of this country. People have been encouraged to develop land and produce wheat and other commodities. The second reason is that certain States had rather bad seasonal conditions. We had severe droughts and when the seasons came good the people who had been affected endeavoured to get a quick cash crop and they grew a bit more wheat. Of course, the third reason is very simple, and that is the low wool prices. Many honourable members opposite, of course, would blame the Government entirely for this. They forget that we are working under a free auction system. 
The next question we should ask is: What will be the results of this curbing? It will affect many wheat growers financially, particularly the younger grower, the new grower, the small grower and the grower who has no alternative but to grow wheat or cereal. I am fully conscious of this, particularly in the State of Victoria. There is a huge tract of country in Victoria for which there is literally no alternative but cereal growing. Many of these properties have now become uneconomical because the quantity of wheat that they are permitted to sell is restricted. We must remember that in many instances the newer and younger growers have very large overdrafts. They also have to continue to pay rates. Even though the income may not be there, the rates still have to be paid. Consequently they are finding themselves in a rather difficult financial position. 
I have any amount of correspondence in my files to prove this. Many growers are in real financial difficulty. One fact that proves this is that land values in the wheat area in Victoria have fallen by about 50%. I know of cases where values have fallen not quite 50% and others where they have fallen below 50% of the value of a few years ago. Perhaps indirectly this is a good thing but we must consider the liquidity of a property. A person may have paid $100 an acre for a property now worth S50 an acre. He finds it pretty difficult to borrow or to retain his overdraft at a rate that may be higher or equivalent to the present sale value. This concerns a lot of people. It does not apply to most of the trading banks, because they were very conservative in their allocations of overdrafts some years ago when people were purchasing properties. But there are many wheat growers who borrowed finance privately. Unfortunately many borrowed in excess of the present day value of their properties. In many cases the equity in these properties has almost disappeared. In some cases it has completely disappeared and the wheat growers concerned are in real trouble. 
Coupled with this is the fact that many wheal growers have the added expenditure of storing  the  wheat until such lime as the Grain Elevators Board or the receiving authority in the various Stales can receive it. I have with me a letter from a very reliable constituent of mine in which he has set out the extra cost he faced through having  10  store wheat for only a very limited period. This matter relates to a request that the former honourable member for Riverina, other honourable members of my Parly and I made to the powers that be in an endeavour to get them to erect more community wheat storages. We believed, and we still believe, thai this is the most economic way of storing wheat. I can prove this. It cost the constituent to whom I have referred $2,450 to store 5,500 bushels of wheat. He has se. out the various rates and expenditures in his letter. The Minister for Primary Industry is well aware of these additional costs because I have presented details to him. So also is  the  Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  That letter is only a sample of others I have put away in my liles. 
The question is: What alternative faces these people? Either they have to gradually go broke or they have lo try to dispose of their wheat in the best way they can. I do nol dispute the statement by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that there have been over the border sales. We know there have been over the border sales. But I do dispute his statement thai some 50,000.000 bushels of wheal has been traded over the border, lt is expected that many wheat growers will do this sort of thing because they have little or no alternative. The burning question is: Whit is the danger of this practice? The first thing is that they will kill the principle of trying to reduce wheat production in Australia. Naturally producers who do this avoid the contributions being made by the remaining wheat growers to the various research programmes within the wheal industry. Far more important than either of those things is the breaking down of uV principle of wheat stabilisation. That is the point that concerns  me  and, 1 am sure, the wheat industry as  a  whole. 
I have mentioned just those 3 anomalies created by over the border sales. Naturally we have to do everything possible  to  prevent such sales. However, section 92 of the Constitution prevents interference with over the border sales of any commodity, but we still have to try to find a solution to this problem. The canned fruits industry created  a  precedent some time ago by introducing  a  levy on the production of  cann a)  i'm  l:  All the canned fruits people were issued with licences before they could operate I  am  informed thai this system is running satisfactorily. What I want to  know  is w.iv  this  same principle cannot  be  applied  to  the wheat industry. A proposal at present being discussed within the wheal industry is  the  introduction of a levy or a duly - call it what you like - of up to about 50c a bushel  on  ali wheat sold. Only licensed receivers could purchase wheat. Persons would have to register as licensed receivers and they would be responsible for  the  payment of thai 50c par bushel. Consequently, if receivers had to pay 50c  per  bushel  to  the Australian Wheat Board they would not be able to pay a very high figure to  the  grower. That is the broad principle involved. I will not spell it out. Suffice to say that the return from the levy would go to  the  Australian Wheat Board which would then in turn pass it to the wheat pool for that season. Eventually it would b. paid back lo the individual grower. I believe (hat this method could well succeed provided that  we  gel round any constitutional problems that may be involved. Naturally I want the Minister to have a very close look at this proposition when he has  the  opportunity. 
The second and final proposal involved in this legislation deals wilh  the  authority of the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat for purposes other than human consumption in Australia at a Lower price than that for wheal sold for human consumption. I agree that this is essential. This wheat would be used mainly for stock feeding, lt would bc impossible lo compete with other products, such  as  the coarse grains, if this wheat had lo be sold at the old price of $1.71. However I issue a warning. There must be a minimum price. I think all honourable members agree that to a large degree the price of coarse grains is based on the price at which you can purchase wheat. I think it was the honourable member for Grayndler who suggested on behalf of the Opposition that we reduce the price of wheat. This sounds very good in theory. We would be able to get rid of some wheat, but the principle would be a disaster to the industry. The price could eventually become as low as 50c for a bushel of wheat. Consequently oats and barley would be selling at a very much lower price than they are being sold today. I issue that warning. My interpretation of the Bill is that it will allow the Australian Wheat Board to bring the price down to $1.45 as a minimum. The honourable member for Dawson indicated that he would move an amendment at the Committee stage. He said that he wanted to have no minimum. If there is no minimum the principle will bring down the price of coarse grain so far as to ruin the whole industry. If we can sell half our commodity at a reasonable price surely that must be better than selling it all at half of a reasonable price, lt is as simple as that. I have much pleasure in supporting this legislation. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield) [5. 12 J- 1 find myself in some difficulty in this debate. Mine is a rural electorate and most of the people I represent are wheat growers. I was uncertain whether 1 should set out to get more votes from my electorate or to tell the people of my electorate and the House what I think. With some difficulty I weighed up this matter. I have decided that my electorate and the House, being of the quality they are. deserve to hear what I think and rot just something that will make me more popular. It is true that the wheat industry is in what might be called a mess. The signs of the mess are that we are growing more wheat than we can sell. There are 2 fundamental or recognised ways of stopping people growing more than they can sell. One is to lower the price and the other is to have some kind of government quota or control to prevent more wheat, for instance, being grown. 
T am glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  paid a tribute to the industry for its courage and for taking the unpopular step of applying quotas. I would like to add my congratulations for the courage that the Minister has shown in doing something which was unpleasant and inevitable. But the fundamental fact we have to realise is that the actions of the past made the actions of the present inevitable. 
There has been a lot of buck passing during this debate. Everybody has been blaming everybody else for the situation in the wheat industry. I guess that people get some satisfaction from this. The one I blame is myself. 1 think that 5, 6 or 7 years ago I should have shown more wisdom and more courage in pointing out to the industry that it was heading on a disaster course. I tried this on some occasions. One occasion was a meeting of wheat growers in my electorate. There was a discussion on whether the stabilisation plan should be increased. I remember  Mr Tommy  Stott, who is no mean performer at these meetings, saying: 'If I can find a Federal member of Parliament who is not supporting this application I shall deal with him'. I remember getting up mildly in the back of the hall and saying: 'There is no need to get into a state, lt is me. I think you are making a fundamental mistake. If you continue on the course you are on it will inevitably lead to increased quantities of wheat and wheat being grown in areas where it has never been grown before, and it will become increasingly difficult to sell the crop'. There was a painful pause in the meeting. Then everybody with one accord devoted the rest of the meeting to knocking me into shape. If I had continued on that course and convinced the industry at that stage that it was doing something fundamentally wrong 1 would have been able today to turn round to everybody in the House here and blame them. But just because I did not continue on that course, 1 cannot do that. 
I will just look at the problem as I sec it now. Everybody in this House pays lip service - and means it - to orderly marketing. But it is worth remembering that orderly marketing should be divided into 2 components. We have the orderly marketing component of single authority selling by the Australian Wheat Board. I would like to pay a tribute to the Board for the amount of work it has done and for the difficult job it has done and how it has done il in recent years. But there is the other component, the stabilisation component, which is a different matter. I heard the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  claiming credit for the stabilisation scheme for the Labor Party. It is true that we have all supported it. I above all should have perhaps been more critical in the past. There is in this stabilsation plan, despite all its advantages to the industry and its political advantages, the inevitable problems that stabilisation plans always have unless they are governed with more courage than usually have. The first component in the stabilisation plan is the cost of production. This is a figure to which we have all paid lip service. All or us in the industry have known that it has been a wrong figure. I knew it and I think everyone else in the industry did. But we have become so used lo beating the cost of production drum that we do not know how to stop. 
We have the stabilisation plan with all its advantages of continuity and certainty of income. But it has within it certain basic problems, lt encourages people to keep on growing wheat as the market falls and as the demand falls. Because there is a stabilisation component there is a certainly that the grower will be paid for his wheat. When h's component of stabilisation is fixed to a cos; of production which is higher than the true cost of production there is a green light for increasing the production of wheat. lt is true that the wheat industry, possibly more than any other industry, has a right to demand to have its cost of production covered. Secondary industry demands it and gets it through tariff protection. We say that we have an equal right to that. 
There is in the public relations credit balance, if we can call it. that, a considerable amount of money which the farmers have contributed to the economy in the past. There is some disagreement about how much it is. lt is hard to measure how much it is. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that it is $400m. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said that il is S300m. I do not know what it is. But I know there is plenty of money in the public relations credit balance, lt is true that equity demands that we ge: assistance, that we get stabilisation and th.il we gel a subsidy. But the fundamental fact is that it does not help us in the end. It does us harm in the end. Let me tell the story of a chap being rushed to hospital in an ambulance after an accident and saying in a muffled voice through his bandages: 'I was in the right anyway'. But he  was  still going to hospital. He was in the right, maybe, but it did not help in the end. 
What is wrong with the wheal industry? One of the problems is that the home consumption price is too high. I should like to see it come down. I realise that what I am saying is not going to be popular in my electorate but the home consumption price is too high and we have inbuilt in it an incentive for black marketing. People say: Farmers ought not to be like that; they ought not to black market: they ought to be a different kind of people". I am a farmer and 1 have the same kind of cunning that a lot of my farming friends have. When I am on a tractor at night sowing a crop r have a big start on any civil servant who is sitting in an office trying to work out some way of stopping black marketing, because nothing fertilises the mind quite so much as being out in the middle of a paddock at night alone sowing wheat and not being quite sure how you can sell il. 
There is another illustration of this aspect. There is something inevitable about difficulties when governments are involved. Honourable members probably remember the story of 2 doctors who were exchanging experiences during the war. One doctor said to the o.her: 'I have 3 cases of meningitis in my area' and a chap sitting behind him tapped him on the shoulder and said: Look, I'll take the lot*. There is this kind of inevitable pressure once we fix a difference between prices, so I should like to see the home consumption price come down to some extent. Quotas now have become inevitable. I should have made the point earlier that it is not true, as some people say. and as some people have tried to pin on me, that stabilisation is the only component that has led to (he production of increasing quantities of wheat which we have increasing difficulties in selling. Certainly the fall in the price of wool is a large component but it is also true that stabilisation encouraged us to continue to increase wheat production at the very time when we ought to be cutting it hack. This is a fundamental thing that we did wrong that 
I, perhaps above all, did wrong. I am not trying to make political capital by blaming someone else. Now we have quotas, how do we make them work? 
The easy way to get votes out of this exercise is to say, firstly, that we are going to protect the small farmer, because obviously there are more small farmers than big farmers and so there are more votes in the exercise. So, let us protect the small farmers they say. Let me give another illustration. I have a friend in England who is a big farmer. He comes out to Australia fairly regularly to avoid - I think that is the word he uses - income tax. Every time we exchange our figures and when he shows me great swags of subsidy components in his figures I say to him: 'Look, you cannot justify this kind of assistance from the government' and he always replies: Look, Bert, if there are enough small struggling farmers around me I should be all right.' We cannot solve the social problem of the small farmers unless we are terribly careful, cunning and capable, without encouraging the big farmers unnecessarily. 
The other way to get votes is to say that we are going to help safeguard the position of the traditional wheat grower. The argument runs something like this: He has subsidised the economy in the past, therefore it is he who should receive most of the subsidy from the Government in the future. That sounds convincing, except that we will probably find that he has died in the meantime and someone else is running his farm. More important than this, an industry like wheat growing has to change continually. It is an efficient industry which is producing the cheapest wheat in the world because it has changed to meet changing demands and to meet different kinds of tractors, different kinds of fertilisers and different kinds of farming techniques. One of the great dangers in the quota system is that it may not be sufficiently flexible. Goodness knows, the quota system will be difficult and unpopular, but we have to make it flexible and we must not set out to safeguard, at any price, the position of the traditional wheat farmer, because the traditional wheat farmer has always changed in the past and if he does not change in the future it will be the kiss of death for the industry. 
All of the things that I have said will bc unpopular but I think it has been necessary to say them. I have been glad to hear many people say. and I echo their statement, that we must evolve a system of transferable quotas. As an industry we must stop asking the Government to supply us with storage at Government expense. I know my farmers, and I know myself. If storage is provided we will fill it. So we have to stand firm against pressure for additional storage. There is almost nothing in what I have said that will help me win votes in my electorate. The one thing I hope will come out of what I have said is that the House and the industry will learn that there are dangers in the way we have acted in the past, so that the next time we come to an industry such as this we will look a little more clear eyed at it and not be so quick to seek popularity. Here again I blame myself before anybody else because I should have warned the industry 5 years ago that it was heading for trouble. In the meantime we have got ourselves in a mess and the industry and the Minister have set about getting us out of it. I wish them the best of luck i a very difficult assignment and I can assure them, particularly the Minister, of my support. The Minister has my understanding, sympathy and admiration for the job he is doing. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Pettitt)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.28 to 8 p.m. 
It is a pity the hour is so late because I would have liked to spend quite a considerable amount of my allotted time in answering some of the questions raised tonight, firstly by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  secondly by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and finally by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  Time is not on our side so I will not go into a lot of detail. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Wilmot indicate to the House that the honourable member for Dawson had explained in detail the Opposition's policy on the wool situation. I listened fairly intently to the honourable member for Dawson and I was amazed at that statement by the honourable member for Wilmot because I could not detect a great deal of Opposition policy that we did not already know about. The honourable member for Wilmot made great play of the Japanese car problem we had some 2 years ago and that the price of wool dropped by 4c. A little later he went on to indicate that we had a 2 to 1 favourable balance of trade with the Japanese and that the reverse was the situation with the United States of America. 1 am not too sure what he wants. On the one hand he does not want to see motor cars coming in and on the other hand it appears to me that he does want to see motor cars coming in. I suggest before he makes speeches along those lines he should sort himself out on his subject. 
I must say, in fairness to the honourable member for Dawson, that whenever a change in the wool industry is suggested someone always comes along and throws a spanner in the works. I cannot remember the verbiage he used, but it meant that there were people outside the industry interfering with the growers' interests. I agree with him on that point. It is a pity these do-gooders do not keep their thoughts to themselves and let the industry make up its own mind. We see plenty of reports in the Press from individuals, who perhaps are in no way concerned with the industry, trying to persuade growers what they should do in such matters as referendums. I agree with the honourable member. (Quorum formed.) 16521/70- ft R-[121] 
I am amazed at the response of members of the Opposition to the call for a quorum by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  A quorum has been formed by the entry of honourable members on the Government side of the chamber. On the opposite side of the chamber are only the honourable member for Dawson who is at the table, and the honourable member for Chifley. They are the only 2 members of the Opposition in the chamber. I think the Opposition is showing great discourtesy and the colleagues of the honourable member for Chifley should be ashamed of their failure to respond to his call for a quorum. 
It is very clear to me, and no doubt to my colleagues on this side of the chamber, that members of the Opposition have not the slightest interest in the wool industry. I said earlier that I could not understand the Opposition's new policy for the wool industry. It seems that there just is not one. There is certainly no support on the Opposition benches at this time. If it is good enough for supporters of the Government to be present, it should be good enough for members of the Opposition also to be present. It appears that they are deliberately trying to count out the House this evening. This should be remembered by people outside this place. I realise that it is early in the morning. Nevertheless, we have business to do and the Opposition should take part in it. The response of the Opposition is a matter of great shame for the honourable member for Chifley. 
I have no doubt that in the minds of many people this is a relatively minor piece of legislation, but it is of great importance to the wool industry. It is further evidence of assistance by the Government to an industry which is in trouble. The Government is carrying out what we call election promises, but this measure is not intended to be the be-all and end-all which will completely solve the troubles of the wool industry. It is certainly a move in the right direction. The Government is to provide a greater share of funds needed for wool research and promotion. The contribution by growers to those funds will be reduced by 50%; that is from 2% of gross returns to 1%. The Government is increasing its contribution from $I4m to $27m a year, to be averaged over a 3-year period. 
As the Minister indicated in his second reading speech, this Bill deals with a num- ber of minor matters. It will give the Minister and the Government more say in dealing with wool research and promotion. The Bill will also change the position as to the appointment of the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Board. The  chairman  will in future be appointed by the Minister for PrimaryIndustry after consultation with the Board. At present the  chairman  is appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Board. There will not be a great deal of difference in the manner of appointing the  chairman  but when one considers that the Government will contribute much more finance it is natural for it to have more say in the industry. 
With the price of wool at its lowest since perhaps the 1930s it has never been more important to look closely at research and promotion than it is today - research not necessarily on the production side but rather into the use of wool. Only a few days ago mention was made of the possibility of wool being used in the filter tips of cigarettes. If this idea were successfully implemented no doubt it would mean a huge contribution to the consumption of wool. Honourable members have heard it said that if we could sell a pair of socks to every person in mainland China the wool industry would certainly not be in trouble. 
Despite comments to the contrary it is my belief that wool promotion by the Australian Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat has had a great beneficial effect on our sales of wool, but unfortunately it has not affected the price. However, we hope that continued promotion will assist wool prices. It is obvious that because of the present low prices being obtained for wool the wool growers are certainly in difficulties.I do not propose this evening to give a full solution to their problems. To be honest, I personally have not a complete answer to the problems facing the wool industry at the present time. For that matter I do not think that the industry knows what its real trouble is, nor does it know how it can get out of its present difficulties. It is absurd for members on the Opposition benches to say that the trouble which the industry is in at the present time is the fault of this Government. The honourable member for Wilmot referred a few minutes ago to the duty on wool entering the United States of America. 
I wonder what the honourable member would think if an outside source wanted to dictate to us what duty we should apply on goods coming into this country. To my mind this completely cuts across the views of members of the Opposition. 
We have heard many suggestions about what the short term answer should be, but I believe that whatever we do to assist the industry must be considered in the long term, because we must be very, very careful of anything done in the short term that will affect the long term result. It could be a very dangerous decision to make. This is something which the Government and the Minister in particular must look at very closely.I now turn to some of the reasons why I believe that the government should take some action in regard to the wool industry. Under our selling arrangements - the free auction system - the returns to wool growers certainly have not been very bright at all. In recent times we have seen some of the lowest prices for many, many years and they could perhaps be equivalent to the prices paid in the pre-war days. A few weeks ago it was equivalent to the 1949 values.I believe that the price today is coming back to the pre-war values. In those days industry costs were not anything like they are today. It could be said quite rightly that the gap between the costs, returns and profits has so altered that growers cannot keep ahead of their costs. 
Profits have turned into losses. The overdrafts held by many primary producers and wool growers have reached a maximum so far as the banking fraternity is concerned. In many instances the banks are refusing extended credit. When it comes to private lending, which is perhaps the main source of finance, interest rates are higher. We have heard of many cases where people have borrowed so much that their equity in their property has disappeared completely because of reduced land values. Because primary producers are paying through high interest rates on properties with an equity they no longer have, they are not able to service their overdrafts. 1 know of some instances where private loans have become due for repayment and the lenders have sought to call the money in. The wool growers have been unable to arrange finance and consequently have had no alternative but to renegotiate a loan at a very much higher rate of interest. 
In some instances wool growers are paying up to 9% interest on money borrowed. No wool grower today can afford to pay 9% interest. I assure honourable members that many people in my part of the Commonwealth arc well and truly in trouble with their loans. The price of land is dropping at a catastrophic rate. Many of these people have no equity at all and some owe more than the value of their property. I shall mention the value of some properties and the loans that have been made on them. I have details here of a property which today is reliably valued at $39,000 but in respect of which an overdraft and borrowings amount to §45,000. Another one is a property valued at §44,000 in respect of which there is an overdraft and loans, including private loans, of $46,000. People such as these have no equity in their property. Another property is valued at $43,000 with borrowings of $63,000. The people on these properties cannot go on. 
As I said earlier, this legislation will make only a contribution to the wool industry. It will fulfil one of the promises made during the election campaign a few months ago. But what will be the effect of the legislation? Based on some of the earlier prices the reduced levy will result in a saving of about $1.20 a bale to the. wool grower. I think it is well that we should consider some of these prices. Wool as a percentage of our total exports had fallen from 67% at the peak in 1950-51 to 25% in 1968-69. If we take into account the prices that we are receiving today for wool the percentage would no doubt be lower than 25%. 
To show how prices have fallen, in 1968-69 the average price was 44.67c per lb whereas today it is about 38c or 39c per lb as an average over the 12 months. In the months of April and May the price was closer to 32c or even 31c per lb. These are shocking prices. Naturally enough, one would not expect any industry to survive for very long in those conditions. The question must be asked: Where do we go from here? If we ask whether the Bill goes far enough the answer must be no, but that it is not intended to. We hope that the Government at some future date will take further action to try to assist the wool industry. I realise that I must not go too far from the subject of the Bill but I suggest that despite all the things that have been said in the past the Government must do something. I am not so sure what it should do. I do not know whether the industry really knows what it wants. 
I have suggested to the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that we must look very closely at interest rates. I have heard many comments about the wool industry wanting a subsidy but I have spoken to people in it and according to my observations they do not want a subsidy. They realise that a subsidy is not the long term answer. It might be handy to have it in their pockets for the time being in order to overcome some of the financial commitments of wool growers but in the long term it will not do the industry any good at all. The industry is looking for something permanent. I suggest that in the meantime, because of the huge borrowings in the industry in recent times and the huge interest rates being paid to banks and private enterprise, the Commonwealth certainly should look into some form of rebate to these people. 
This is a very important industry. There are something like 100,000 holdings and naturally there are more than 100,000 people directly concerned with the industry. It has been said repeatedly around the track that some 60% of the wool is produced by 20% of the growers. Those figures might be correct but it is also correct to say that 62% of the holdings also supply 50% of the actual wool grown. That is a slightly different setup to 60% owned by 20% of the growers. These figures can be borne out in statistics from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
I support this legislation. I agree with those honourable members who have spoken tonight about a single marketing authority but in view of the time I will not enlarge on that subject. I realise that we cannot implement such an authority immediately but I appreciate the importance of doing something on an industrial level. 1 am sure that if the Government can assist the industry in implementing any of these proposals it has put forward at a very early date then wool growers will appreciate it. 

 Mr CREAN (Melbourne Ports) [1.24 a. m. - With all respect, I point out that it is now near enough to i 30 a.m. We are talking about the most fundamental industry in Australia so far as export earnings are concerned. I ask, the Government: Do you really believe that this time of the morning is the right time to be discussing this Bill? This Bill relates to the wool industry which, I understand, in the worst of years, supplies something like a quarter of Australia's export earnings. Over 90% of our wool is sold outside Australia. The main issue is the price we receive overseas and this surely is a significant matter. All I am suggesting is that it is 1.25 a.m. Opposition members are not rising to speak at this stage with the exception that I am making this point. Why do we not call a halt and start again tomorrow? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of the big variation in the retail price of rural chemicals which play such an important part in the costs of the primary producer, can the Minister advise the House how prices of such chemicals have moved in recent years? If substantial increases have occurred will he examine ways and means of reducing the impact of this cost burden on primary producers? 
 I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service concerning the announcement by the  President  crf the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  to the effect that bc intends to call a nation wide strike next Tuesday. Is the Minister in a position to say how many people will be compelled to go on strike and for what purposes it is being called? Do the people involved stand to gain anything? Can the Minister inform the House of how many strikes have been called since  Mr Hawke  was appointed  President  of the ACTU? Will the Minister make inquiries as to the approximate cost of such strikes to both the workers and the economy as well as the inconvenience caused to housewives and industry us  a  whole? 
Before referring to the Budget, I should like to pay a tribute to the late honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes).  This is the first opportunity I have had to do so. I believe that no man did more for Australia than did the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, in the sporting field, in war time and in civic affairs. He was a true statesman. He certainly will be missed not only in this House but also throughout Australia and, no doubt, throughout the world. I pay a tribute to him. 
Referring to the Budget, I commence by quoting from the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in reply to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The Leader of the Opposition said: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated, we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy this Budget and to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
A statement such as that coming from the Leader of the Opposition needs a lot of consideration both inside and outside this House. Repeatedly we have heard members of the Opposition say that they want to go to the people. I think it was the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  who pointed out yesterday that it is only a few months since the last election. Recently a lot has been said about law and order. I believe that if we did go to the people the question of law and order would be the first thing put to them. I am sure that the people fully realise the nature of the alternative Government. If we did go to the people on that issue I am sure that the Liberal and Country Parties would be returned to office with more numbers than we have at present. In recent times we have heard and read of many incidents that the Australian people are not prepared to accept. In this chamber we have seen honourable members defying  Mr Speaker.  We have read of and seen certain honourable members organising moratoriums and similar demonstrations against the wishes of the people. 
One of the most serious statements of all came from the only Labor Premier in Australia,  Mr Dunstan  of South Australia. He said that if he was of the age he would not register for national service. I think we should analyse his statement. He is the Premier of a State and yet he is inciting people to break the law. I have no doubt that at some time in the future he will be responsible as Premier for passing legislation which he will expect South Australians to accept and to obey.  His  attitude to national service is, in effect: 'We make the laws. If you do not agree with them, you can break them.' How long would a country last under those conditions? The first essential in any country is to abide by law and order and I object very strongly to  Mr Dunstan's  statement. I am sure that my view is shared by the people of Australia. 
As is the case with all Budgets, people say that it is this or that. In my time here I have not heard of a good or popular Budget. They are all said to be bad, but some are said to be worse than others. However, when it comes to election time the people recognise whether they are good or bad, or worse than others. They have for many years now put the responsibility of office back on the shoulders of the existing Government. Undoubtedly this proves what people really think of the budgets that have been presented by this Government over the years. 
Australia's economy is going through a tough time at present, one reason being the drop in world prices for our goods. Another important factor is that over the last 3 years droughts have occurred in every mainland State. Yet another factor is the increase in costs caused by a greater demand for higher living standards and shorter working hours. I believe those to be the 3 main influences on the economy. During the election campaign last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised a reduction in income tax. People who are fortunate enough to have a reasonable income will receive in this Budget the benefit of thai reduction, but this will not help the people who have little or no income. You cannot have less than nothing and this is the unfortunate position of people in many of out primary industries today. 
The Budget also provides for increased revenue from higher excise and sales tax amounting to about $240m. lt is estimated that the reduction in income tax will cost in a full year between $289m and $290m. The Budget also provides for considerable extra grants. Our national welfare expenditure is to be increased by $148m and expenditure on capital works by $78m. The biggest beneficaries are the States because they are to receive increases of about $291 m. About $77m is to be paid to rural industries. 
Probably the Stale Premiers would nol be prepared to agree but 1 am sure that the increased allocation to the States of $29 1m will assist them greatly. T am sometimes annoyed to hear people say: 'The State Government can do something. Why cannot you fellows do something?' As the Commonwealth gives the money to the States, it is up to the States to do what these people require. You cannot have it in both places. lt is very easy for the Opposition to be critical on various aspects of the Budget. I could also be critical because 1 would like to see greater handouts and reductions in excise, taxation and other charges. Certain sections of the community would agree with me, but if our costs are to be kept within reason and inflation kept as low as possible we must limit our expenses. That is the first fundamental. 
Perhaps I am obliged now to say that the very worst facet of the Budget is the increase in execise on petroleum products. 1 am pleased that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  is at the table at the moment. The extra revenue to be gained from increased excise on petroleum products is estimated at about S77m This increase in cost will have a big influence on transport costs. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr 
Calder) has informed me that little rail transport is available in the Northern Territory. Consequently people there are dependent on road transport for the bulk of their goods. 
Primary industries generally will be very adversely affected by the increased cost of petroleum products. They will find an extra fuel cost of 3c a gallon difficult to carry. Although the Leader of the Opposition spoke for over an hour he did not mention that point. 1 urge the Treasurer in consultation with other Ministers to endeavour to remove this increase in excise as early as possible. I want also to refer to social service and repatriation benefits. They are to be increased slightly. The real question is whether the increases are sufficient, but bearing in mind general increases in costs an increase of 50c in the base pension is perhaps not as bad as it would first appear. I think it was the Postmaster-General who said yesterday that when today's base rate pension is compared with that of 20 years ago, when we came into office, it will be seen that the present pension is worth a lot more than the pension of that time. I believe it is a sound principle to keep a close association between the base rate pension and the minimum wage, but I do not suggest for one moment that every time there is a rise in wages in one section of the community the pension rate should be increased. That method would become completely unworkable. 
Many people are dissatisfied with the pension increase of SOc. If times are reasonably good I believe a larger increase is possible. 1 turn now to deal with repatriation benefits, and appropriately the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is now in the chamber. The increase in the rate of pension for totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners is $2, and that is certainly appreciated. The increase of $1.50 in the intermediate rate is also good. However, I am disappointed that there has still not been an increase in the base rate of pension for repatriation pensions although a slight increase has been granted in the special compensation allowance. I could go into a lot more detail but time will not permit me to do so. Social service and repatriation benefits have improved and an attempt has been made to rectify some of the anomalies. The double orphan payment has been increased by $1.85 and payments in respect of long term sickness in some instances have been doubled. 
I wish now to deal briefly with our rural industries. Although the Leader of the Opposition spoke for an hour, as I said earlier, and did refer to the rural industries, it did not take him very long. In fact he devoted 69 words to the rural industries. 
That is so. I do not have time now to read that section of the honourable gentleman's speech, but it is worth studying. Most of those 69 words covered what the Government is doing and hardly a word was devoted to what the Opposition would try to do for rural industries. I was also interested to note that although this is the fourth day of this debate only 1 member of the Opposition - the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  - has bothered to go into any detail in respect of primary industries. Having listened to the honourable member last night I think members of the Opposition would be much better off if they kept him off primary industry subjects because he appears to me to know very little about this field. 
Perhaps some honourable members may have read a report in a Sydney newspaper of 19th August to the effect that the Australian Labor Party's move to delay a debate on drought was deadlocked. Maybe there is some truth in this. After listeneing to the various contributions to this debate from the other side of the House I can see that honourable members opposite have little interest in primary industries. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is in the chamber. I hope that before this debate is over we will hear more from the honourable member on primary industry. Perhaps I should deal with the atitudes of the Australian Labor Party towards primary industry a little later because there are a few points which I would now like to draw to the attention of the House. 
I would like to quote a passage from the report in the Sydney newspaper that I have mentioned. Referring to a statement by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  the report stated: 
He also said he feared the party was becoming identified with those who thought subsidies to inefficient farmers were a solution to the rural crisis. 
Today's debate in the party room was the latest in a series of clashes in which younger members, mainly from the cities, have opposed proposals put forward particularly by  Dr R.  F. Patterson and  Mr A.  Grassby. 
It appears to me that these people are not cutting any ice any longer. I do not have time to go into details and I must push along. I fully appreciate the attitude of the members referred to in that newspaper report because since coming to the House the honourable member for Riverina has made some fantastic statements, as some of my colleagues in the Country Party have just reminded me by way of interjection. The honourable member for Riverina is reported in Hansard of 5th March 1970 as saying that the Government had made about $51m available to the fertiliser companies. He went on to say that this money was going to the manufacturers and not finding its way to the consumers of superphosphate. I ask the honourable member for Riverina: How does he account for the fact that the price of superphosphate today is ever so much cheaper than it was in 1961? The actual price in Victoria in 1961 was $21.20. In 1963 the price was reduced to $12.45 by way a a bounty of $6 which was originally introduced by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who was Minister for Primary Industry at the time. I admit that there was a slight increase in the price of superphosphate in 1966. But why was there an increase? The increase was caused by an increase in the world price of sulphur and of Nauruan rock. In 1968 the bounty was further increased, again bringing down the price. Earlier this year the bounty was increased again by $4 and the price for superphosphate is $14.80. How can the honourable member for Riverina say that the money made available by the Government is going to the manufacturers and not finding its way to the primary producers? This of course, is not so. 
The honourable member for Riverina also said on one occasion that the Australian wheat industry is in difficulty not because of overproduction but because of underselling. 
It sounds all right until we start to look at a few facts and figures. We find that last year the Australian Wheat Board sold more wheat than in any other year with the exception of 1 or 2 years. 
The actual sales in the last wheat year were made up of 56m bushels sold within Australia and 242m bushels sold outside Australia. This year the estimate for home consumption is again 56m bushels and the estimate for overseas sales is 290m bushels. This will be a record. 
It is a very good effort and I am glad to hear the honourable member say this. But why does he turn around and say that wheat producers are in difficulty because of underselling? The honourable member is confusing the people, and particularly the wheat growers, on this issue. 
The honourable member for Riverina has made many statements; indeed,  Mr Chairman,  I cannot keep up with his statements. He preaches them in the House and he goes outside and preaches them to various organisations. They are confusing the wheat growers and the taxpayers throughout Australia. The honourable member has referred to what he calls black marketing. He is reported in one newspaper as saying that black market sales of wheat have been estimated over the 1969-70 season to have reached 50 million bushels. The most wheat we have ever sold for stock feed purposes in Australia is about 30 million bushels - J think, to be precise, that the figure was 28 million bushels. Together with many other members of the Australian Country Party 1 have been concerned about this statement because I know and my colleagues know that these figures of 50 million bushels sold by way of over-border trading are very much exaggerated. Secondly, of course, this trade is not. black marketing; it is quite legitimate under section 92 of the Constitution. 1 have made a lot of inquiries about this matter. Living very close to the South Australian border I can keep a very watchful eye on what is taking place. I have checked with a number of buyers, sellers, agents and other people and have come to the conclusion that the estimate made by the Australian Wheat Board is pretty factual and that a total amount of approximately $ million bushels of wheat is being traded between South Australia and Victoria. I think I can see the honourable member for Riverina nodding his head either in agreement or disagreement - I am not quite sure which. 
All right, the honourable member does not query those figures. My calculation of  i  million bushels coincides with the estimate made by the Australian Wheat Board. Let us now consider the situation as between New South Wales and Victoria. Last year stock feed sales in New South Wales amounted to some 2 million bushels, according to the Australian Wheat Board figures. Despite all the black marketing referred to by the honourable member for Riverina sales this year are expected to bc 31 million bushels, lt is also agreed that because of the dry conditions the consumption of wheat for stock feed purposes has increased substantially. I do not have time to quote all of the figures but they show that there will be a maximum increase of 2 J million bushels into New South Wales. In Victoria last year, or the year before the present wheat season, we sold 1 million bushels for stock feed purposes. This year sales for stock feed purposes are practically nil. It is also suggested that we are consuming a lot more wheat for stock feed purposes. It is said that the amount has doubled or even trebled. But even if it has trebled we find that perhaps 2 million bushels of wheat ure necessary for Victoria. If we add up all these amounts what sort of figure do we come up with? The amount of wheal sold over the border is between 5i million bushels and  6i  million bushels. I believe that the statements of the honourable member for Riverina are very misleading to the growers and to the people of Australia. I also suggest that they are doing a very great disservice not only to the wheat industry but also to the Australian Wheat Board. 
I have only a few minutes of my speech left so 1 will push on to another subject. I agree that the rural industry is in trouble. There is no disputing this. The situation in the wool industry represents one of the biggest problems we are faced with at present, and that problem is reflected in other sections of rural industry. For 100 years wool has been Australia's greatest export earner and despite the reduction in price it is still our greatest single export commodity. But right now we are facing the biggest challenge that has confronted us in the last 100 years. Increased costs fad low wool prices have resulted in a reduction of growers' profits which are now at a record low level. The actual price is the lowest it has been since the early 1930s, and the price is still receding. Wool growers are in financial difficulties, and many of t hem have lost all their equity. 
To date, as I said previously, little has been said from the Opposition benches in the way of suggestions to improve the position. Honourable members opposite say that the Government should do something. Of course, it is very easy to say that the Government should do something. I want to point out to honourable members opposite that this Government is not prepared to do just the first thing that is suggested to it. The all important point is that the Government, through the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Department of Primary Industry, in conjunction with many honourable members on this side of the House, is working solidly in an endeavour to find a solution to the problems facing the wool industry. But as I said, we are not prepared just to accept the first suggestion that is made to us. We have always adopted the principle of working in co-operation with the industry, and this is, of course, what we will do in the future. But the Government, the Party that I represent, and all my colleagues are very conscious of the necessity to try to find a solution to the problems facing the wool industry. 
We have made the first move by making a grant of $30m to the industry. This is not the total answer to the problem. This grant virtually is to assist only those wool growers in the drought stricken areas who are in real financial difficulties. It certainly will be of little assistance to wool growers in Victoria. I believe that the ultimate answer is something of a more long term nature, such as improving our marketing principles. This is something we have to do. I believe that when we do introduce some new scheme it will be one which will be of great advantage to the industry as a whole. 
If I were to make a recommendation to the Government, this is what I would suggest: Firstly, in consultation with the industry we have to expedite the establishment of a statutory marketing authority, and in establishing this statutory marketing authority we have to supply the best brains possible to run it. Even if it means sacking every member of the present Australian Wool Board, we must have the best brains possible. Secondly, we should place more emphasis on the importance of research into the presale core testing with a view ultimately to disposing of the Australian clip by sale on a sample principle. I hope that we would even get to the stage where we would be able almost to sell our wool over the telephone, instead of selling it under the old fashioned system that is in operation today. I am informed that this alone can save approximately $15 a bale in handling charges. Thirdly, we should examine further the indebtedness of the industry with a view to providing some financial assistance on an interest subsidy basis. These are some suggestions that I would like to put before the Government at the present time. 
My time has nearly expired. 1 did want to refer to the latest move by the Government to upgrade all country telephone services. No doubt a Bill will shortly be introduced into this House and I will have an opportunity then to speak on this question. But I did want to give special thanks to the Postmaster-General, because whilst we have had many battles with him and he has been very definite in his views, I must say that he has been very co-operative and he has assisted all those who have placed their problems before him. On behalf of my constituents and, I am sure, on behalf of many constituents throughout the length and breadth of Australia, I can say that the principle of deleting the old formula of unit system and substituting the system of allowing every new line to extend for a radius of 15 miles will certainly be of great assistance to people in country areas. 
After all, there have been some unfortunate instances where people in country areas have had to spend a lot of money on providing telephone services. I will speak about this matter in detail at some future date but, in the meantime, I can assure these subscribers that if they have erected their lines since 1st January 1969 they will be compensated, to some degree. Details of that matter will be given later. But I must say to those people who erected their lines under the old scheme prior to 1st January 1969 that it is the Department's desire eventually to take over the maintenance of their lines. However, I remind these subscribers that there are many thousand of such lines and this work cannot be done overnight. It is only natural that those people who have lines that do not meet the specifications of the Department will have to wait perhaps up to 8 to 10 years before the Department does something about these lines. 1 want to reiterate my attitude to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and his statement that the Opposition will oppose this Appropriation Bill. When I am convinced that the Opposition can implement some of the promises which it makes, then I believe the Australian people will listen to it. Last night the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  I think, made great play on the fact that at the last general elections the Australian Labor Party received a greater number of votes than did any other party. It is true that the Labor Party may have received a greater number of votes, but it did not receive anything like 50% of the total number of Australian votes. This is the important point. We must remember that 3 other parties were opposed to the Labor Party. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service and I preface it by drawing the Minister's attention to the announcement that strikes in Australia had reached an all time high. I also refer to the statement made yesterday by the Minister that it would cost about $5 10m to grant 4 weeks annual leave to workers generally. Has he or his Department ever carried out a survey to determine the actual or indirect effect that these strikes are having on our cost of living? The strikes, of course, would include those called in support of the Moratorium Campaign. If such a survey has not been carried out, will he consider instituting an inquiry for this purpose and so direct attention to the substantial effect of these strikes on industry, workers, pensioners and the overall economy of Australia? 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said early in his remarks that there was not one member on the Government side who was prepared to stand in bis place and be counted. At the outset 1 say quite frankly that I was unaware that the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1970 was being brought forward today, despite the fact that it has been on the notice paper. Because of that my name did not appear on the list of members to speak on the Bill. I say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that when a repatriation measure is before this House it is very rare that I and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  do not speak in the debate. We have always treated repatriation matters as of importance. 1 think that the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this matter were uncalled for. I am aware, as are most other honourable members in this chamber, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is very vocal in regard to repatriation matters. I agree with a number of the points which he has brought forward from time to time in this House but I certainly do not agree with all of them. 
This Bill deals with the increased rates and allowances by way of pensions and compensation payments that were announced in the Budget Speech. Before I deal with the actual rates I want to state that I believe that the Australian repatriation system is one of the best in the world. Our system provides for compensation for people who have suffered war disabilities in various forms. It provides for war pensions and allowances, service pensions and allowances, comprehensive medical services and rehabilitation of the war-disabled. Our system also provides for financial compensation by way of a war pension for disabled veterans and their dependants, and for the families of deceased ex-servicemen. The medical treatment which is provided includes rehabilitation services where they are required as a part of the treatment for war-caused disabilities, and also for the families of deceased ex-servicemen. The system also provides for the re-establishment measures that we see from time to time. 
I refer now to the various rates of pension. The Bill provides for an increase to  S3 8  per week in the TPI rate - I do not think anybody disputes this - an allowance of  $28  per week for those on the intermediate rate pension and  $12  for those receiving the general rate. The special compensation allowance is to be further increased by up to a total of  $6  per week. We find that the widow's pension is to be  $15.50  per week, the domestic allowance for a widow  $8  per week, the allowance for the first child  $6  per week and for each subsequent child  $5  per week, and the allowance in the case of a double orphan  $12  per week. The service pension for a single pensioner is to be increased to  $15.50  per week. One could go on. 
The additional assistance that is available to people in receipt of repatriation pensions includes a number of items. One matter which is a disappointment  to  me and no doubt to many other honourable members, particularly the ex-servicemen and ex-servicemen's organisations, is the refusal of the Government to increase the funeral allowance which now stands at  $50.  In my view this amount is completely out of context in relation to the general increase in costs. I know that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is very sympathetic towards an increase in the funeral allowance, but no doubt he has his problems, as do each of us as members of this place. People are sometimes inclined to overlook other benefits provided under our repatriation scheme. There is a gift car allowance, attendants allowances, a recreation transport allowance, a sustenance allowance and a clothing allowance. These benefits are very seldom mentioned by honourable members opposite who seek to criticise what I described earlier as one of the best repatriation systems in the world. 
One of the highlights of our repatriation system are the rights of the individual exserviceman. At any time an ex-serviceman can submit a claim to the Repatriation Department to have a disability accepted as being due to war service. His claim might be refused, but he then has certain other privileges. If he is not satisfied with the decision of the Repatriation Commission he can appeal to the Repatriation Board, and if his claim is still rejected he can take the matter to the various independent tribunals. What fairer system could we have? 
A short time ago the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the lack of effect of the various rates of pension and suggested that in the Budget we should have done this and should have done that. I remind the honourable member that this year's Budget follows the pattern of previous Budgets by which numerous increases have been granted. I take last year's Budget as an example. There was an increase of  S2.50  in the special rate pension for the TPI ex-serviceman. This year the increase is to be  $2,  so there is an increase of  $4.50  in this rate over a  2-year  period. Last year the intermediate rate was increased by  S2.25  and the rate for the war widow was increased by  $1  . In addition the attendants allowance was increased by  $2  and the  100  per cent special compensation allowance was increased by  $2.  These are things which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and some other honourable members opposite overlook. Last year the gift car allowance was increased by the equivalent of  $60  per annum. 
I should like now to compare today's rates with those of  21  years ago when the present Government took office after a Labor Government had occupied the treasury bench. I think I am correct in saying while making this comparison that the then Minister for Repatriation was the father of the present Deputy Leader of the Opposition who is so critical of our various repatriation benefits today. But let us consider the rates of  21  years ago because I believe the comparison is important. 
J am not being personal; I am stating a matter of fact, lt was the then Minister for Repatriation who accepted the rates that I am about to mention to the House and he was the father of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who is so critical of the increases proposed in the Budget. In  1949  the TPI rate was the equivalent of  $10.60.  In the  21  years since then we have seen an increase of  $27.40  in the weekly rate, bringing the full TPI rate to  $38.  The intermediate rate had not been thought of in  1949;  it was introduced in 1965. As this rate is now $28 it could be said that this benefit has increased by $28 over that period. 
Mir KING  -  We must make the comparison with the 100 per cent rate. The special compensation allowance is another measure which has been introduced in recent times. This was introduced in 1968, so it is fair to say that the 100 per cent rate of special compensation allowance today represents an increase since 1949 of $4.50. The war widow's pension has been increased from $6 to $15.50, an increase of $9.50. The increase in the domestic allowance for a war widow has been substantial. Under a Labor Government it was the equivalent of 75c, but it is now to be $8, an increase of $7.25. I have not bothered to work out the percentage increase in that allowance; someone can do that later. The allowance for a first child was an equivalent of $1.75 in 1949 whereas today it is $6, an increase of $4.25. The rate for a double orphan was $1.75 per week and now it is $12, an increase of $10.25. Yet honourable members opposite say that we are not fulfilling the desires of ex-servicemen. Even the service pension has trebled, from $4.25 to $15.50, an increase of $11.25. One could go on. The guardian's allowance was introduced in 1965 and the supplementary rent allowance was introduced in 1958. I cannot see that there can be much criticism of these allowances. The allowance payable to a guardian who has care of an invalid child has increased by $6 and the attendants allowance has been increased by $6.10. 1 do not wish to take up a great deal of the time of the House on this matter, but having said this I should mention that I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he refers to the need for an increase in the 100 per cent general rate pension and that the minimum general rate should be as much as the present 100 per cent rate. The special compensation allowance for the pensioner receiving a 100 per cent general rate is $6 per week and it is less for those in receipt of various rates of general rate pension. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made quite a mention of this point. If it was good enough in 1964 to have the 100 per cent general rate of pension equivalent to $12 per week, I. believe that the rate should be increased today. Some pensioners who receive the 100 per cent rate or down to the 75 per cent rate are entitled also to a special compensation allowance, but unfortunately they do not all qualify for this allowance. Actually 77 per cent only qualify for the special compensation allowance. 
But anyone who is in receipt of something less than 75 per cent of the base rate pension receives no increase at all. In other words, it is fair to say that any person receiving 50 per cent of the base rate pension has had no increase at all since 1964. Only at the tail end of his remarks did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition make a positive proposal and that was in relation to a full scale inquiry. No doubt this originated from the Returned Services League and not from himself. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition led for the Opposition in this debate. Therefore I take it that it would be up to him to make some worth while contribution to assist the cause of the repatriation system. I was somewhat disappointed to learn, after listening to him this morning for threequarters of an hour, that he had not really made any contribution at all. lt is not my aim to put forward a whole lot of suggestions to the Minister in this regard, because over a period of time I have made suggestions to the present Minister and to his predecessors on a number of occasions. If honourable members look back over the record they will find that the introduction of the intermediate rate pension came from this side of the House and, in particular, from this corner of this side of the House. I will not mention the name of the instigator of that proposal. 
 I will accept that to be the case. Despite the fact that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has taken a great interest in repatriation affairs, it is rather disappointing to think that he has spoken here for three-quarters of an hour and made no really strong recommendations. All we got from him was an amendment, the terras of which I do not have before me. From memory I think he said that the rates just were not good enough. Of course, we can all say this. I happen to represent a rather mixed electorate. I have all sorts of people in my electorate, and not too many of them do not want a bit more. Primary producers, wage earners, salary earners, and even politicians in some instances - everybody seems to want more. It is very easy to say: 'We want more,' but the all important thing is to get some sort of equity in relation to these things. I would like to see an increase in pensions, particularly the widows' pension, the TPI pension, the intermediate pension and all these higher rate pensions. All of these people are in need; they always have been and no doubt they always will be. I am sure that anything that the Government gives to these people will be appreciated. Nevertheless, we cannot always give them what we would like. 1 would like to conclude by complimenting the Minister, his departmental officers and the Government as a whole on this Bill. I believe that since the Minister has taken over his portfolio he has put a lot of sympathetic thinking into the various problems of individuals who come to his Department for assistance. I have had a lot of correspondence and a lot of discussion with him. I am sure that one could not be more sympathetic to the needs of these people than the present Minister. No doubt many of us who associate ourselves with this department will appreciate that we do get criticisms from members of the public. But when these criticisms are followed through I believe it is found that the departmental officers who operate this system are first class. They give sympathetic consideration to the really needy. T believe that there should be few or no complaints in this regard. Except in relation to items such as funeral benefits, the 100 per cent pension rate and some minor items, I compliment the Government on the introduction of this Bill. I reject the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and give my full support to the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I am prompted this evening to rise to my feet in defence of the address given in this chamber a few minutes ago by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I was surprised to hear a point of order raised by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  when he referred to the honourable member for the Northern Territory in a derogatory way. He referred to the fact that the honourable member for the Northern Territory seldom speaks in this House. I venture to say that the honourable member for the Northern Territory more than holds his own in this chamber. He speaks on all subjects relative to the Northern Territory. When one considers that the Northern Territory is virtually a 
State represented by  1  member, in comparison with virtually dozens of representatives of other States, one should congratulate the honourable member for the Northern Territory on his magnificent contribution since he has been in this Chamber. 
His record in aviation is equal to that of anyone in this chamber. During the war he served as a fighter pilot. Following the war he took up a commercial licence. I understand he has flown up to about  1,000  hours a year. This in itself is a fine contribution by a man who certainly understands a little about aviation. I am informed that he bas held a licence for about  25  years. I do not think anyone else in this chamber has such a record. I congratulate the honourable member on his contribution here this evening. In doing so, I would also tike to pay a compliment to the present Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and to some of his predecessors. I extend this compliment to the Government because over a period of time we have come a long way in civil aviation. Nevertheless we still have a long way to go. 
I want to raise at this juncture the question of third level airline services that are in operation in Australia. Unfortunately a lot of people are not aware of the advantages of these services in country areas. We have heard over the years a lot about decentralisation. What better service can we offer to counter the problems of the rural areas than a first class air service? I pay a tribute to the many services of this type that have been operating throughout all the States. I naturally take advantage of these services, as do a lot of other country members. If these services were not in operation many members of this place, besides a lot of business men in country areas, would have great difficulty in travelling and being able to carry out their duties. 
The problem as I see it is that unfortunately the country areas do not have large numbers of people who wish to take advantage of such services, and consequently those operating the services have to introduce smaller aircraft and then the service becames a little bit uneconomic. I have put forward propositions to the Minister from time to time and I have asked him to consider granting some form of subsidy to those who operate third level services with small aircraft. I think this could be introduced on a passengers carried basis, not so much as a straight out subsidy on the seats of an aircraft flying into a certain area. This of course would squeeze out those who endeavour to take advantage of the proposed subsidy and would give advantage to those who operate a service that is a necessity. So I urge the Minister and the Government to have another look at this because these services make a very worthwhile contribution to the welfare of our nation. 
When it comes to assistance given at the local government level all we can do is to congratulate those local government bodies which have contributed to the self help scheme that we have in operation. Many of these local government bodies have contributed many thousands of dollars with a view to trying to get a service in operation and, naturally enough, to have it maintained. As I said a moment ago, the question of economics is always a problem. In the last  10  or  15  years or so no fewer than  5  different companies have tried to operate a service into some areas of western Victoria. They have been able to do so only by virtue of the fact that they have had assistance at the local government level. This assistance, of course, must be recognised by this Government. 
I believe that because of Australia's geographical position, its size and its increasing population we must give every consideration to investigating the possibility of introducing an aircraft industry in Australia. It is of no good trying to convince me or anyone else that we cannot build aircraft in Australia. It is ridiculous to think that way. Not many years ago we said that we could not even build motor cars in Australia but we are building a few today. The same thing applies to aircraft. We could not build aircraft in Australia X years ago. But what happened during world  Wai  II? Did  nc  not build many hundreds of aircraft that served a very useful purpose? As I said, with the way Australia is growing today, we must give every consideration to establishing our own aircraft industry. 
Finally, I want to make comment about the hijacking of aircraft. It will be brief because I am not in a position to recommend what is the right or wrong way to handle the problem. We have heard a terrific lot about hijacking in recent months. I again compliment the honourable member for the Northern Territory on his contribution in relation to this matter. To my mind the hijacking of aircraft is one of the most serious problems which we find ourselves facing today. Fortunately, because of our geographical position, the chances of an aircraft being hijacked in Australia are perhaps not quite as great as they are in other countries. Nevertheless we must be prepared for such an event if and when the time arises. Any action taken by the Government must be good solid action so that in the event of such a thing occurring we will be able to do something effective and make sure that it occurs only once. I was moved when I heard about a week ago that one hijacker was no longer with us. While 1 do not believe in this kind of thing, I think it must be a lesson to the rest of the wouldbe hijackers. I suggest to the Government that it take firm action in preparation for the day when a hijacking may occur in Australia. It would certainly have my backing whatever it may be. 
I see I have exactly 6 minutes to deliver the policy of my colleagues in the Australian Country Party on this all important matter of increased postal charges. 
1 note, through an interjection, that I now have 16 minutes. I would like to make a very distinct observation that as a result of the introduction of this Bill honourable members this afternoon have had to decide whether they would protect the user of the telephone branch of the Post Office or the taxpayer. Each year we read in the various newspapers throughout Australia and in other documents that the Postmaster-General's Department as a whole has shown a profit or has shown a loss. In many instances we read that it has shown a small loss. But I have found great difficulty in finding a balance sheet that is simple enough for the average person in the street to understand. Certainly, such a document is not found in our metropolitan Press. Little mention is made of capital expenditure. I recently noticed with interest an article that appeared in a current affairs bulletin entitled 'The Post Office'. This document sets out the earnings, the working expenses, the interest and the net profit or Joss since 1957. It is quite a good document and quite a good statement showing just where we are going. But, as I said, there is no indication of our capital expenditure, which is all important. 
If we want to find out how much we have spent on capital works we have to make a very thorough study and 1 would urge upon the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  that this information should be made more readily available for the average person in the street because, after all, capital expenditure is a very important item. However, in this special document we see that capital expenditure for the year 1969-70 totalled $353m. The estimate for this year is $404m. That is a lot of money, but I think if people cannot really see what is going on in regard to this expenditure we will always be in trouble trying to convince them that these increased costs that are introduced from time to time are justified. I can make quite a strong case for opposing increased postal rates and telephone charges. This is very easy to do, but on the other hand it is equally easy to justify them. In defence of the increases I think that we should have a look at a few figures and make some comparisons. Way back in 1920 a telephone call cost the equivalent of lc. In 1949 this was increased to 1.7c and in 1970 it is 4c. In other words, in 50 years we have had an increase of only 400 per cent. Looking at the postal charges, we see that in 1920 when the minimum wage was the equivalent of $7.10 the postage rate was 1.7c. In 1970 the postage rate under the new proposed charges will be 6c whilst the minimum wage is $42.40. The minimum wage has gone up by about 600 per cent while postal charges have gone up by 400 per cent. 
Coupled with these increases in price we have had an increase in services. The first one that comes to my mind is air mail services. I was interested to note in a document put out recently by the Postmaster-General that if a person is prepared to pay a small sum and have a letter classified as priority paid mail it is possible to post a letter in Melbourne and have it delivered in Sydney 5 hours later. That is during the day. If one posts it in the evening then it takes a little longer. Naturally one has the overnight service but if the letter is posted at 6.15 p.m. it can be made available in letter boxes at 7 a.m. the next day. I wonder how long it took a letter to travel from Melbourne to Sydney or vice versa in 1920, possibly 40 hours. So this alone is an improvement. I believe that generally speaking, services right throughout the land are improving but some are not keeping pace with others. I refer to some of the mail deliveries in certain rural areas where a letter can take anything up to 24 hours to get from, say, the metropolitan area to a country post office before it is even considered for sorting or distribution. 
We have heard quite a lot in this debate today about increased costs for the carriage of periodicals, newspapers and so forth, but I checked on a few figures and 1 found that in 191 1 a Sydney daily newspaper sold for the equivalent of .8c an edition. Today that same newspaper is selling at 7c. This is an increase of something like 800 per cent. So I do not believe that some of the people who are complaining about a small increase can say that their complaint is justified. When making comparisons with other countries - I am referring to the postage rates for ordinary mail - we find that in the United States of America it is proposed that the ordinary letter rate will be the equivalent of 7.1c. In the United Kingdom it is 6.3c, in Germany 7.3c, in France 6.4c and in Sweden 9.5c. So I say that whilst these increases are somewhat distasteful they can be justified. I am also informed that the periodicals that are carried at reduced rates resulted in a loss to the department on this service of something like $9m last year. So I come back to the original question: Who should cover the cost, the taxpayer or the beneficiary, the person who is using the particular service? I was also informed - 1 think the Postmaster-General made this statement - that lc paid as a contribution to postage is the equivalent of 15 seconds of a post office employee's time. This is certainly a very short period indeed. 
There is one point on which 1 would like to congratulate the Postmaster-General. 1 refer to the section dealing with the various classifications of newspapers and periodicals. I do not have time to go through them, but the idea of classifying them into A and B categories is of great advantage to many of these newspapers, particularly those going to rural areas where people have no other way of having a newspaper delivered, as do the people in certain country towns and even the people in the metropolitan area who do not pay any postage at all. I believe that this classification will be of great benefit to people in rural areas. I do admit that I would have liked to have discussed further the question of the upgrading of country telephone services. I believe that this is one of the features of this section of the Budget and one which will be of great assistance. But like all these other alterations, this costs money and no doubt if we are going to be on the receiving end then someone must pay for it. 
Finally 1 turn to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He wishes to set up an inquiry into the establishment of a public corporation to run the Post Office. I want to say quite categorically right from the start that I reject this idea entirely. To my mind the Post Office is a public utility. It is a developmental unit established for the benefit of Australia as a whole, particularly as it affects rural areas. It is ridiculous to think that every little post office in Australia ought to be a paying proposition. It is ridiculous if one thinks of what it would cost to post a letter to some outback centre. I believe that the policy of the Department is 'service before profit' and this must continue. The Post Office has proved beyond all doubt that it cannot pay its way. How could a corporation pay its way? Much has been said this afternon about the corporation which conducts the business of the Post Office in the United Kingdom. I think the Postmaster-General said that it was expected to show a profit of 10 per cent. What would our postal charges be if the Post Office had to make a profit of 10 per cent on its operations? Interest payments alone amount to about $108m annually at present. If the operations of the Post Office continue to expand, as we would want them to expand, that interest bill will increase annually. This year we will be paying about  $404m  tor capital works. Can any honourable member tell me what the interest payments will total in another 20 years? How could any corporation make the operations of the Post Office pay? 
My colleagues from country electorates and I would support one goal - a uniform trunk line rate. To achieve this we should commence by expanding the extended local service areas in such a way that many of the people who have only a trunk line access to their nearest business centres can enjoy the local call fee. In no circumstances should we support any increase in trunk line charges. I give a warning to the Government that if further increases in trunk line rates are proposed it will not necessarily have my support. Why should country people and country business people have to pay more to conduct their businesses than do our city friends? If honourable members study the figures that are available they will see that about a quarter of the Australian population pays half of the trunk line fees in this country. This is an unjustifiable penalty on people who live outside our capital cities. Any move towards rectifying the situation would receive our support because it would improve the position. I note that my time has expired so I conclude by saying that whilst it is easy to put forward a case opposing any increases, in most instances the proposed increases are justified. 1 certainly reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. My opposition is based on some of the comments I have made and more particularly on those answers that were given to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports by the PostmasterGeneral this afternoon. 
I have a short question for the Prime Minister. I refer to the announcement yesterday that further funds were to be released by the Reserve Bank of Australia to the trading banks to enable further loans to be made by the banks from the Farm Development Fund and the Term Loan Fund. I ask the Prime Minister: Will these loans be made to rural producers, who are, as is well known, labouring under disabilities today, at the concessional rate of interest which was announced in respect of farm loans several months ago? 
I wish to direct a question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry on the Government's intention to establish a wool marketing authority. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that all major wool growing organisations throughout Australia are accepting the Government's offers? Is it also true that, as reported, the Parliamentary Draftsman may have difficulty in preparing a Bill to cover these proposals in time for it to be introduced and passed in this House before the Parliament rises for the Senate elections? I Anally ask whether, in view of the importance of this legislation, the Acting Minister will do all possible to see that everything is done to allow this legislation to be dealt with in this session and to be implemented on 1st July 1971. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry, I preface it by reminding the Minister of the Treasurer's Budget Speech in which the Treasurer said: 
The Government is examining the need for reconstruction in the wool industry, including as one aspect of reconstruction the question of growers' indebtedness and the ways in which the Commonwealth can most effectively assist. 
As the Minister has announced proposals for a marketing authority for the wool industry, to commence next year - I am sure that the Minister is well aware that the rural debt continues to rise - I ask: What progress has the Government made regarding the inquiry into rural indebtedness and when can we expect an announcement? 
I wish to ask a supplementary  question  to that asked by the honourable member for Canning. I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry regarding the possible delay in the. introduction of the Government's decision to implement a statutory wool marketing commission, I ask; If this legislation cannot be introduced in this House before the House rises for the Senate elections, will the Prime Minister reconvene the Parliament after the election and before. Christmas so that this most important legislation affecting Australia's No. 1 export earner can be introduced at the earliest possible time? 
This would not be the first occasion we have heard the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  speak in a similar vein to that in which he spoke a few moments ago. Year after year, on every occasion on which any alteration of sitting times such as extended sitting hours takes place the honourable member for Wills is always on his feet giving a whole lot of claptrap as to why we should not be altering the sitting times. I think I am correct in saying that orginally the honourable member for Wills said that this House would commence on a new formula of sitting 2 weeks on and virtually 1 week off. Because of the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to the effect that we would have a Senate election of 21st November and that certain legislation had to be resolved in this place before that election it was decided that we would sit for 4 weeks straight. Because of the efficiency of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  and the co-operation of the Government we now find ourselves in a position in which we hope to be able to complete the legislative programme in 3 weeks. For my part, I am very much in favour of it. No-one likes to sit to an ungodly hour of the morning to deal with legislation but we must remember that the legislation must be dealt with. 
I am interested to note that the honourable member for Wills has made his comments and is vacating the chamber. He is not prepared to listen to the other side of the argument. Nevertheless, the only point I really wish to raise on this occasion is that honourable members will recall that earlier this week I asked the Prime Minister whether he would consider bringing the House back after the Senate election in the event of certain legislation not being passed or at least not being brought before this House. I am referring to the measures which affect the wool industry. I would like to ask the Leader of the House whether he has considered this point. After all, this is very important legislation. Naturally, I would agree that, if it could not be brought in or if there was some doubt about its being brought in in the fourth week of this sitting, it is impossible to see bow it would be brought in in the 3 weeks. It has been suggested that some sort of temporary legislation may be introduced. I would like to know whether the Government has made any progress on this matter. If there is going to be no legislation in the next 2 weeks will the Leader of the House give me and many supporters of the Government, in particular those connected with the wool industry, an indication whether we will be dealing with this very important legislation this side of Christmas? 
We have certainly heard the results of some woolly thinking this evening, climaxed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who complained that the wool grower was not receiving a full and just price for his commodity. Now I can see why me 
Opposition has not attempted to put forward the Australian Labor Party's policy on wool marketing. I refer to one clause which states that the Labor Party is prepared to support orderly marketing on the basis that it shall be financed by a revolving fund started by the Commonwealth and eventually financed by the growers. I can see why the Opposition did not want to do this. The honourable member for Sturt says that they are not getting sufficient funds. It is a case of taking your money out of one pocket and putting it in the other. 
A lot of comments have been made since the Bill was introduced last evening. Unfortunately, with the lateness of the hour, time will not permit me to cover all the points I would like to cover. Certainly time will not allow me to answer all the questions put forward by the Opposition. However, there are a few fundamental points I would like to raise before we go into the Committee stage. I agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that this is the most important piece of legislation ever introduced for the wool industry. I endorse that remark entirely. Never before in the 12 years that I have been in this place have I seen any legislation prepared and introduced - no doubt it will be passed by the end of this week - as quickly as this piece of legislation. Naturally one must commend certain people for it. 
The purpose of the Bill is to establish an Australian Wool Commission in connection with the marketing of Australian wool. As 1 said, it has come about in a matter of a few weeks. The people who have had anything to do wilh it ought to be commended. About  4  or 5 weeks ago the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  requested  Sir John  Crawford to present his submissions to the Minister. They were received. The Minister put them to the Cabinet, received the o.k. of Cabinet, announced the scheme, put it to the industry and now to the House. I am sure that this legislation will be assented to in both Houses before this week is concluded. I want to compliment those people who have had something to do with it. The first is the Minister for Primary Industry. I know that he has received many forms of congratulations in this chamber and certainly from outside the chamber. The congratulations coming from outside have been chiefly from the industry, despite what Opposition speakers have said here mis evening. 
I know that many of the organisations, from branch level right through to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, have been offering congratulations to the Minister. They are certainly warranted. Naturally, one must not overlook the Australian Wool Board Advisory Committee.  Sir John  Crawford - I think the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  referred to this this evening - is possibly one of the most efficient economists Australia has ever known. We certainly thank him. We must thank officers of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics who did much to assist  Sir John  Crawford and others in preparing the recommendations. 1 want to pay tribute also to 2 other men. The first is  Mr Wallace  of the Department of Primary Industry. I am sure that he will receive his recognition and appreciation when he knows that this Bill has finally passed through both Houses. Finally, the man who made it possible to introduce this legislation into the House so quickly is  Mr Comans,  the Parliamentary Draftsman. 
All honourable members will remember the statement made by the Minister last week that we were having great difficulty in preparing legislation which could be introduced before the House rose for the Senate elections, and we were concerned about that. I am sure that it is only because of the efforts of men like  Mr Comans  that it is possible to present this legislation now. I compliment all those people who have contributed in some way or other in bringing this legislation forward. I do not think there is any need for me to go through the background history of the wool industry. It is rather interesting to note that many of the Opposition speakers tonight have spoken out for the first time on the wool industry. I have not heard a boo from many of them since the wool industry has been trouble At the same time they are still adopting a Calamity Jane attitude and are using the old system of sapping the confidence of anybody connected with the wool industry 
As the honourable member for Calare said, we see a lot of experts in the Opposition tonight. I am informed that no wool grower from the Opposition side spoke tonight. Why? Because there is not one wool grower in the Opposition. The Government realised that something had to be done. It realised that it was not its responsibility to see that good prices were obtained for our commodities, but it realised something had to be done. It has taken certain action. There is no doubt that something is being done now. I believe that the introduction of this legislation will herald the beginning of a new era in which we hope we will be able to see increases in the price of wool. A few weeks ago, long before this legislation was prepared,I said that when this authority was constituted it had to have some teeth in it. After studying the Bill, I believe that not only has it teeth in it but also it has fangs in it. The legislation covers the vital wool industry issues. Clause 18 of the Bill states:  (1.) The functions of the Commission are - 
to make arrangements for the sale, otherwise than at auction, of wool received by a broker for sale at auction that the Commission considers cannot advantageously be offered for sale at auction and for the processing of any such wool before sale; 
This is where I believe the Commission has a substantial power to dispose of certain types of wool. I believe that that clause of the Bill will give sufficient teeth or fangs to the Commission. I spell out very loudly and very clearly to all would-be buyers and all would-be manufacturers that, if the price of wool does not increase to a reasonable level, the future of the auction system certainly is in doubt and the future of wool production must also be in doubt. I hope that those people will heed that message. The honourable member for Dawson was critical in his remarks.I think I am correct in saying that it was the honourable member for Dawson. IfI am wrong, it was somebody else fromthe Opposition. He stated that there were only 2 growers on the Commission and that the industry had asked for more. The reason for this is obvious. Naturally the industry wants to have as many people looking after its interests as possible. I think I should draw the attention of the critics to clause 7(1.) of the Bill which states: 
The Commission shall consist of 7 members; namely - 
a Chairman; 
2 members to represent Australian wool growers; 
1 member to represent the Commonwealth; and 
3 other members. 
Sub-clause (3.) states: 
Before appointing a member to represent Australian wool growers, the Minister shall consult the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
The critics might say that the Minister will consult the Conference but that he will take no notice of it. This is a lot of claptrap. This is the normal form which a Bill takes when it virtually asks the industry to supply 2 names of persons to become members of the Commission. Who are the members, apart from the Chairman? Two members will represent Australian wool growers, one member will represent the Commonwealth and there will be 3 other members. I stress the following sub-clause: 
A member referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (1.) of this section shall be a person specially qualified for appointment by reason of experience in the marketing of wool or wool products, in the processing of wool or in the manufacture of wool products or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance or economics and, before appointing a person to be such a member, the Minister shall consult the Australian Wool Board. 
Again, he has to get the approval of the Wool Board. We must appreciate also that this is a Commission to market wool. It is important that wool growers have a voice in their industry organisations, but we must remember that we are not doing away with the Woo! Board and the AWIC. We are retaining them. Of course, it is on these bodies that the wool growers will be able to get their true representation. 
I said publicly at a meeting recently that I would have liked to see a Commission consisting of about 3 members. I make no apologies at all for that statement. We could have had a Commission consisting of about 3 members with no wool grower on it at all. We must have the best brains possible on this Commission. Despite the fact that we have some very important and smart men within the wool industry, I do not believe that they are the salesmen for whom we are looking. The honourable member for Dawson also complained about the fact that the Bill did not spell out the minor issues regarding the setting up of the Commission. I believe that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  gave him a very satisfactory answer when he said that if he were employing somebody to plough his paddock he would not go out and tell him when to put the plough into the ground and when to take it out again. The simple answer is that he would have confidence in the individual to do the job. That is the Government's attitude towards the appointment of members of the Commission. 
A few minutes ago the honourable member for Sturt said that the members of the Commission should be announced at this stage. How can the Minister do that? What a ridiculous suggestion. After all, we first have to get the legislation through the Parliament and then we have to find the people who we believe can do the job. Because of the importance of the wool industry and the prices being paid for wool today, I suggest to the Minister that once this legislation is passed and receives the royal assent we must ensure that it is implemented as quickly as is humanly possible. I do not care how the Minister does it, but because the legislation is very important it should be implemented as quickly as possible. Wool growers are in trouble today. 
The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  spent a lot of his time talking about industry problems. As 1 said earlier in my remarks, I think that if ever there was a man acting as Calamity Jane it was the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. It was the first occasion for quite some time that I have heard him speak about wool. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  - that honourable gentleman who always is so vocal on issues connected with primary industry and more often wrong than right - said that this Bill does not actually cover what the industry wants. What more does the honourable member for Riverina want than complete satisfaction and appreciation from the industry organisations? The honourable member for Gwydir referred to the result of the meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference last week, or whenever it was. All the other organisations scattered throughout the length and breadth of Australia have complimented the Minister on this legislation. Do not try to tell me that they are not satisfied. These people do not send telegrams congratulating the Minister unless they mean what they say. 
In summing up this debate, 1 point out that honourable members opposite have tried to find fault with the Bill. They have asked many hypothetical questions. Yet as I said at the outset, not one speaker on the Opposition side got up and gave the House an alternative proposal, nor did one speaker on the Opposition side give us the Opposition's policy on wool. Honourable members opposite are not game to do that because they are not proud of their policy. 
Who told us about the Opposition's policy? 
1 listened to the second  speaker  and I did not hear him mention the Australian Labor Party's policy on wool. He confused it with a lot of other academic remarks which certainly do not line up with Labor's policy. Let us have a look at the Australian Labor Party's policy on wool. It wants a reserve price plan based on the referendum which was rejected about 5 years ago, which shows how up to date its policy is; it wants a statutory authority set up, which is fair enough, and it wants to acquire, appraise and market our wool. A little while ago I reminded the honourable member for Sturt that the Labor Party also wants to have a revolving fund which will be financed at first by the Commonwealth and then by the industry itself. All I can say about this proposal is that the industry would want to get a very much higher price for its product than it is receiving at present because if it did not the industry would find itself in a financial position where it could not fulfil its obligations in regard to the revolving fund. 
I did intend to resume my seal long before this. 1 would have liked to discuss a number of other important matters this evening but time does not permit me to do so. I compliment the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for introducing this legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. I trust that the wool industry will receive adequate financial assistance as a result of the introduction of this legislation. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation. In view of the Prime Minister's statement to the effect that there will be a cut-back of $1.8m in the expenditure of the Repatriation Department, can the Minister give the House an assurance that this reduction will not have any effect on repatriation beneficiaries in the form of either a reduction or a delay in their benefit payments? 
After listening to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  1 am quite sure that one must sum up his speech by saying that it was a very interesting statistical address but it had very little to do with the Bill. Of course, that is not altogether unusual in the speeches of some Opposition members. -Unless they can gel their remarks out of a book, their addresses are somewhat short, because they do not understand the real position. 1 am really surprised that this evening the honourable member for Wilmot has gone along that line and completely forgotten what the Bill means. 1 suppose the same could be said about the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who this afternoon got a long way away from the Bill. 
I want to commence my remarks by commending the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  and his suggestion that we could dispose of our wheat on the stock feed market, chiefly in Asia. But I would like to caution those who are of that belief to remember that today we do supply a lot of coarse grains to markets to the north, particularly that of Japan. If we were to go too deeply into this field - the honourable member for Moore suggested that we make a massive plunge - firstly, that could have some effect on the coarse grains market in Australia and, secondly, it could go further and have some effect on our export meat market. It stands to reason that if we are to supply the ingredients to feed the stock in countries such as Japan the demand for our meat must slacken. 
This Bill is a very limited one. I believe that it has 3 real features. One is to borrow the S250m. The second is to increase the interest rate from 5 to 5£ per cent. The third and most important is the main reasons why we have to borrow this money. Let me quote just these 3 lines from the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury): 
. in order to comply wilh section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than one year. 
That is the very reason why the Government has had to introduce this measure. That is the constitutional side. But we must also look al the practical reason why we want this money. In brief, it is that our supplies exceed our sales. If we look at page 38 of the annual report of the Australian Wheat Board for 1968-69 we can see the very reasons why we have a surplus. Our sales have been good. Last year they were almost a record. But at the same time we have increased our production. 
 I am talking about 1968-69, which is the last year for which figures are recorded in this report and in which we had a total of something like 560 million bushels of wheat to get rid of. Following that we introduced some quotas. It is all very well for the critics just to stand back and say that we have to reduce or restrict production. That is not easy to do. lt is very easy to make a decision, but it is not always easy to implement that decision, particularly when it has some very adverse effects. 
I do not go along altogether with the honourable member for Moore in his comments in relation to the industry. After all, whether it was right or wrong, the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation was the first to make a move in this direction. It was the one Who recommended that we introduce a quota system. It recommended that to the Commonwealth and State governments. We as a Government recognise the importance of private industry. In this instance it is a case of going along with the industry itself, despite all the comments that the then Minister for Primary Industry made to the effect that the industry would have to do something about the position. 
The implementation of that recommendation is having a very adverse effect financially on many growers. Let me take my own State as an example. In the last 4 years we have had 2 years of quotas and I year of drought. Naturally enough, this is causing great financial hardship, so much so that many growers in the Wimmera electorate have little or no equity at all in their properties. Their overdrafts, mortgages or whatever they may be are greater than the actual value of their properties today. These people are in real financial difficulty. This Bill will not rectify that position; but one can appreciate that by its implementation and the money being made available to pay the first advance on that wheat which has been delivered within the quota system many farmers will be able to retain at least some equity in their properties, whereas otherwise they might have been in the category I have just mentioned. 
The position is that, despite the fact that last year was an almost record year for export sales, we still have a carryover of about 250 million bushels. Without this Bill there would be no chance whatsoever of paying a first advance to wheat growers who are delivering that amount of wheat which comes within the quota system. It is obvious that once we introduce any form of restriction we are opening up an opportunity for someone to try to get around it. It is only natural that some farmers will have some surplus in a normal year. It is obvious that if farmers do not have a surplus in a normal year they will have a shortage in a lean year. Hence we have a situation in which wheat is being sold across the border and also, in very limited quantities fortunately, on the black market. The latter is wheat that is sold on an intrastate rather than interstate basis. No doubt that will assist an individual grower. 
I for one can fully appreciate that some growers find themselves in a situation in which they have no alternative but to do that; otherwise they would bc in such a financial position that they would not be able to stay on their properties. This is a temporary measure but its effect on wheat stabilisation could be ruinous. My colleague, the honourable member for Riverina, has on a number of occasions condoned the sale of wheat between' ,one State and another. In this he has been joined by many other people. 
The honourable member interjects to say that he has recognised it. I am sure that if you were to study all the comments he has made in this House on this subject you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would agree with me that he actually condones the practice. As a result of this trade we saw last year a very definite drop in the sales of wheat for local consumption, whether for human consumption or for stock feed purposes, in Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales. There was a definite drop in sales by the Australian Wheat Board. Under section 92 of the Constitution, of course, we cannot stop interstate sales, but we can stop intrastate sales. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has the backing of the industry as a whole in trying to find some formula whereby we can discourage people from disposing of their wheat across the border. The Federation has been doing everything possible but as yet has not been able to find the answer. Yet we continue to find self-appointed experts who do not understand the real position but who continue to support or condone the principle of sales over the border. I believe that people who do this are doing a great disservice to the industry and who no doubt will be a major contributing factor in attempts to break wheat stabilisation. If wheat stabilisation in this country fails then those people who are accepting or condoning the sale of wheat over the border alone must be held responsible for that failure. Once wheat stabilisation is broken we can expect a similar trend to follow in other primary industries. 
There is no doubt in my mind that hardly a wheat grower in Australia today does not hate the system of wheat quotas. This is understandable. But most of them have accepted the principle because they know it is completely unavoidable. Wheat has 3 real problems today. The first is the problem of quotas or restrictions of production. The second is the high and increasing cost of production. The third is the lack of long term finance. We have frequently heard it said that what the primary producer wants today is long term finance at low interest. It is very easy to talk in this way. Of course, we all like low interest rates when we have to pay for the money and we would all like long term loans, but I believe what is most important is to make sure that primary producers can get money on a long term basis. 
I am grateful to the Department of Primary Industry for supplying me with  some figures which 1 would like to cite for the benefit of the House. If one borrowed an amount of money on a 5-year basis at an interest rate of 7 per cent the actual annual rate at which that money would have to be repaid would be 24.39 per cent. But if a person were able to get a loan over 20 years at the same interest rate the actual annual rate of repayment would bc 9.44 per cent. If he were lucky enough to get the loan over 30 years at the same interest rate the actual rate of repayment per annum would be reduced to 8.06 per cent. This shows the importance of long term loans. The interest rate is only part of the problem. I submit to the Treasurer that when he is considering the provision of money for persons in primary industry he should suggest to the lending institutions that they first consider long term loans rather than the rate of interest. Interest rates are, of course, important but they are not nearly as important as the term of the loan. 
As I have said, a loan over a 5-year period at an interest rate of 7 per cent involves the primary producer in an annual repayment rate of 24.39 per cent. We must also remember that if a person manages to acquire sufficient income to make this kind of repayment on a loan he has also considerable income tax payments to meet, lt is absolutely impossible for a primary producer to survive with a 5-year loan at an interest rate of 7 per cent. I come back to the Bill. I commend the Government for introducing it. The industry could not survive without this kind of legislation, lt is true, as some honourable members have suggested in this debate - 1 think the honourable member for Wilmot was one - that we have to pay further interest on this money, but the fact is that the wheat growers have lo survive. They have to survive while producing wheat at a time when we still have considerable quantities of wheat on hand, and the fact is that most wheatgrowers at present are in financial difficulties. I support the Bill and I wish it a speedy passage through this and the other place. I trust that the Australian Wheat Board will be as successful next year as it was last year in disposing of a large quantity of wheat. I hope that the Board is so successful that we will not have to borrow as much as the $250m covered by this legislation. 
Some 2 hours ago I was informed that a matter of public importance would be introduced into this House by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Along with my colleagues the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who is Secretary of the Government Members 
Wool Committee, I as Chairman of that Committee am very happy lo be able in the few minutes 1 have available to answer some of the questions that have been raised this afternoon by members of the Opposition. I believe that people outside this place must be notified of the broad principles for which the Opposition is fighting in relation to such matters as the wool industry. We have seen today an exercise which has proved beyond all doubt the lack of knowledge of honourable members opposite about this industry. This can be seen in the arguments they have presented. 
Firstly I would like to refer to the honourable member for Dawson. He talked about total acquisition and in the same breath he said that we should not buy in wool. He cannot have 2 principles. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  endeavoured to do all he could to sap the confidence of the wool industry, the wool trade and anyone that is connected with this industry to a degree where the price of wool could go even lower than it is today. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in this place yesterday opposed decisions made by the wheat industry. Today, because one section of a rural industry decides that it wants an acquisition scheme the honourable member supports that proposal. This proves that these honourable members do not know where they are going. They are diving all over the place. There is not one wool grower on the other side of the House. Indeed, there is not even a primary producer over there. How would they be expected to know anything about the wool industry? 
I have no quarrel with the statement that the wool industry is in trouble. The v/Jol industry certainly does have tough times ahead. It has had tough times for quite a while, but so have many of our export industries. I have no quarrel with what was said in that regard. But the question is: What is the Government doing to try to assist the industry? I could spend some time on this subject, but I have not the time available to me to mention all that the Government has done. It has provided much assistance as drought relief and superphosphate subsidies amongst many other things which have been available for a number of years. In recent times the Government has introduced many new forms of assistance, including $30m financial assistance to the wool industry. The grant for research and promotion has been doubled and now runs at S27m a year while the growers' contribution has been halved. The honourable member for Riverina must appreciate this. In addition SI. 5m has been set aside for objective measurement in the next 2 Tears. that is, 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
The Government has provided a guarantee to the Australian Wool Board to enable it to borrow for rebuilding wool stores, and if the industry requires it a further guarantee is available for the building and equipping of the integrated wool selling complexes. There was no mention of this point by the Opposition; yet they could require about S90m. The Commonwealth has agreed to make $100m available for farm and debt reconstruction and, naturally, a big percentage of it will find its way to the wool industry. Finally there was the introduction of what I call the Anthony Wool Commission which provides a real breakthrough for the industry in orderly marketing. The timing of the setting up of the Australian Wool Commission is terribly important, so let us consider that aspect. I have not time to mention all the finer details, but I remind honourable members that in April 1970 the Australian Wool Industry Conference voted in favour of the establishment of a single marketing authority. In July 1970 a sub-committee of the Australian Wool Board reported favourably on that suggestion. On 6th October the then Minister for Primary Industry announced the Government's approval of the scheme and its intention to set up the Australian Wool Commission. The first sale was held on 16th November. If ever a Minister and a Government deserve to be congratulated, they deserve to be congratulated on the way that the suggestion was implemented and on its timing. When the chips were down the Government got in behind the industry and not only said that it would do these things but also did them. 
Many comments have been made about the Commission since it came into operation. Generally speaking wool growers and others in the wool industry have spoken very favourably of the Commission. I followed some of the movements of the then Minister for Primary Industry when he went into Queensland not so very long ago and on not fewer than 4 occasions in that State large gatherings of wool growers passed resolutions complimenting the Minister and the Government and affirming their confidence in the Commission. Unfortunately, however, many people are prepared to snipe at the Commission's activities. We have seen instances of that this afternoon. This is to be regretted. The Commission is doing a magnificent job in the circumstances, but one will always find knockers who are prepared to criticise anything that has been introduced by the Government. There is no doubt in anyone's mind that the price of wool has now dropped to a level which would never have been thought of a few years ago. But since the price has fallen the industry has acted, the Minister and the Government have acted, and we now see in operation the Australian Wool Commission. 
There has been much criticism today. The honourable member for Dawson talked about not buying wool. He said that we should not buy so much wool, but at almost the same time he spoke in favour of acquisition. Where does the honourable member stand on these matters? One minute he says that we must not buy wool and the next minute he says that we must take it or acquire it. I think anyone can see through his attitude; he is after some cheap political kudos. We know that the Commission is buying in a considerable amount of wool, but what would have been the position if the Commission had not been doing so? Today we are receiving an average of 29c or 30c per lb for our wool and the trade is buying 75 per cent or 80 per cent of it. If the Commission had not been in operation could we have expected to receive 29c or 30c per lb for wool today? I very much doubt it. The most important point is that individual wool growers are being paid for the wool which is purchased by the Commission. 
Perhaps I should explain at this stage that although Australia's wool clip is in the vicinity of 6 million bales we cannot expect the trade to buy and use wool on a day to day basis. The trade purchases and keeps in reserve certain quantities and qualities to suit its requirements. Today, because the trade has the assurance that wool is available at a price, it is not carrying surplus stocks. Because surplus stocks are being reduced there is a tendency for the price to fall. Eventually when stocks run out we hope to. see an increase in price. We must remember that it is no sin to carry a load of wool in store. Wool is a non-perishable item. I ask honourable members to consider how much produce other industries keep in reserve. Even the wheat industry today, not only in Australia but also in all exporting countries, is carrying at least a 12 months' surplus. Many other industries are doing the same thing. 1 sum up by saying that 1 have complete confidence in the Australian Wool Commission. I know that the industry has complete confidence in it and that there is no alternative to it at this stage. 1 have mentioned already the question of acquisition. It may be said that Australia had an acquisition scheme during the war. This is true, but it must be remembered also that during the war we had a firm price and a firm market. We do not have this situation today. 1 believe that the Wool Commission has a charter wide enough to enable it to buy wool and to sell wool by readmitting it through the auction system, by negotiation, by tender or in any other way. This is the first occasion, apart from war time, on which the wool industry has had any authority to dispose of wool by negotiation. It has never been able to do this before. In the circumstances 1 believe that this could be one of the most powerful weapons that the industry could have. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Minister see a report in the Melbourne Press to the effect that the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, had now agreed to accept the Commonwealth debt and reconstruction scheme proposals? Can he substantiate this reported statement? Has there been any alteration to the proposals as agreed to by ali the other States? When will the legislation be introduced into the Parliament and how soon can primary producers except to see some of the. Commonwealth proposals in operation? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry read a report of alleged changes in support for the buying-in activities of the Australian Wool Commission? If so, will he explain the present position, having in mind the critical circumstances of the Australian wool industry at this time, and the effect which the present price of about 30c per lb or below has on the profitability of wool growing? 
-It was not my intention to address the House on this Bill this evening but after listening to some of the speeches of honourable members opposite I felt that I should refer to one or two matters. I think that each year for the 12 years in which I have been a member of this House I have heard the same old type of speech- from certain members of the Opposition. Although the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  was absent from this place for a period, my mind goes back to the time when he was here previously when he was for ever preaching that the Government had been insincere, that the pension rate was inadequate and all that sort of thing. I believe that this Bill, which was introduced by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  earlier in the week, is a very limited measure. It has been introduced in the form of an emergency measure because of the general increases in costs which have occurred in the community. 
I take this opportunity to compliment, firstly, the Minister and, secondly, the Government on their decision to introduce this emergency measure which provides for a small increase in pensions. It is very easy to say that the pension increase is insufficient. But the present time is not recogised as being the period when consideration is given to the general question of pensions. All honourable members know that this question is considered at Budget time, which is usually in August or September, and if I am any judge I am sure that the Minister and the Government will certainly give due consideration to the question between now and when the Budget is introduced. No doubt we will see a further increase granted in pensions if the Minister and the Government believe that costs have increased. 
It is very easy to refer to the abolition of the means test and to say that the means test has not been altered. I think that it is very simple for anyone who is interested in the means test to understand it. The honourable member for Barton said that the means test was so complicated that even lawyers cannot understand it. I thought that he would conclude his remarks by saying: 'Lawyers even come to me to explain the means test to them.' 1 believe that it is a very straightforward means test. From time to time the Minister has prepared a ready reckoner which sets out how the means test works. It is based on weekly income and the capital which an individual may possess. I believe that if one looks at this chart one sees that it is very easy to understand the means test. If the honourable member for Barton believes that it is impossible for some lawyers and solicitors to understand the means test, I suggest to him that perhaps he should look around for another solicitor. 
As regards the easing or abolition of the means test, for my part, I believe that we have gone about as far as we can go at this stage in easing the means test, because I am informed that if it were removed totally it would cost approximately $400m annually, which is a lot of money. At the same time, many of the people who are critical of the present means test and want it abolished are the same people who want to see a large increase granted in the base rate pension. There are many occasions on which the base rate pension could be increased. For my part, if the Government can see its way clear to spend $400m annually in order totally to abolish the means test, I suggest that the Government should look at some of the more needy areas in which to make an increase. 1 refer to such people as widows, particularly the widow with a family who has little chance of earning an independent income. Any increase in pension granted to these people would certainly be appreciated. Then I think of the invalid pensioner who has no opportunity to earn any independent income. These are the people at whom we should be looking closely to see whether we can grant any further increase in their pensions, rather than looking to see whether we can abolish the means test, thus literally throwing down the drain, annually. 3300m or $400m or whatever the amount is. I believe that the Opposition would be serving a better cause if it were looking at these matters, rather than trying to criticise the Government every time the question of an increase in pensions is raised. 
I think that last night the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  referred to fringe benefits which he calculated are worth approximately $5 a week to each pensioner today. This is no mean effort because $5 is a lot of money. It is true that some people would not be making full use of these fringe benefits. But what about other people to whom they would be worth more than $5? In some cases the value could be $10 or $20. But $5 is the average, according to the honourable member for Boothby. No doubt he studied this matter and knows what he is talking about; I know he takes a great interest in social services. 
During this debate Opposition members have said repeatedly that the value of the pension has deteriorated. I do not wish to go through all the details set out on the information sheet circulated by the Minister and which sets out the true values of pensions for the benefit of honourable members who are taking part in this debate. I think it is very important to note, however, that in 1947, when the present Opposition Party was in Government, the actual pension rate was $3.75. 
 I have aroused reaction from some honourable members opposite. They will say immediately that the value of money has deteriorated and so forth. Nevertheless, if we compare the rates in 1947 with those in 1971  -  I admit it is a long period - we find a very substantial increase in values from $3.75 to $16. For those honourable members opposite who may misunderstand, I mean $16 a week. This is coupled with the fringe benefits. One might say then that the value has been increased to $21 a week. As I explained a few minutes ago, in some instances the value of the fringe benefits is ever so much higher than $10 a week, it could be $20 a week. Single pensioners may earn $10 or have the equivalent in capital. If we are to follow this through we must consider the sliding scale. I will not bore the house with all the details but it is possible for a married couple to have earnings of up to, I think, $84 per week equiv alent. That is a pretty substantial figure. I am not suggesting for one moment that all pensioners get this amount of money. 
I think it was the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who referred last night to poverty. We hear a mighty lot about poverty but when we analyse the figures the percentage of people who are living on the poverty line is very small. From memory I think he said it represented about 2 per cent of pensioners. I do not want to be adamant about it because I am speaking from memory. 
I reject the Opposition amendment. The Opposition is bringing up all the old things that it has brought up in the past. It is asking for a select committee and all sorts of things, and we have heard these stories before. We have come a long- way with social services but I do not want people to get the idea that we have reached the limit. 1 have pointed out that there are certain sections of the community today whose needs receive insufficient emphasis. They are the people I mentioned before - the widows, the invalids and those with no income other than the pension. These are the people to whom we must give greater consideration. 1 recall the time when the Opposition strongly opposed benefits introduced by the Government which differentiated between single and married pensioners. Honourable members opposite said that we were trying to penalise certain people and were very critical of the legislation. 1 note that their criticism has died away. They have realised now the importance of discriminating towards people in need. 1 have great pleasure in supporting the Bill and 1 reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I appreciate the sincerity of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in moving his amendment and speaking to this Bill today. I think that most honourable members, particularly those who have been here for some time, .fully appreciate his great interest in repatriation matters and I compliment him for his determination to improve the situation. I will deal with the amendment as I proceed. I compliment him upon much of what he said. J agree with a lot of his comments but, of course, there are certain points with which I do not agree. 
The Bill is limited. It increases certain repatriation and war service pensions. This is being done under emergency conditions which have been brought about by a sudden increase in costs. That is the first point that I. wish to make. The second point is that the scope of the increases is limited. The Bill authorises an increase of $1 a week to those who are in receipt of a second schedule pension - that is, totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, the blinded, the tuberculosis patients, double, amputees and so forth - and SOc a week for the intermediate rate pensioners. The intermediate pension will now become $28.50 a week, the war widows' pension $16 a week and the service pension $16 a week. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was critical because the war widows' pension will be only $16 a week but I draw the attention of the House to the fact that many war widows are in receipt of a domestic allowance which increases their pension by a further $8 a week. However, the point that 1 should like to raise - and I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this - is that there has been no increase in the general rate. The honourable member commenced his remarks by saying that there has been no increase in the 100 per cent general rate since 1964. While that statement contains a certain amount of truth it is not entirely true because while the actual base rate has not increased since 1964 - 1 regret this very much and I trust that the Government will look at it - there has been an increase for those who are on a 75 per cent and above pension through the introduction of what is called the special compensation rate. What this has meant virtually is that, since 1964, while the base rate has remained at $12 a week, with the increases to the special compensation rate the pension is now $18 a week, lt is not fair to say that there has been virtually no increase for the 100 per cent rate pensioner although the 100 per cent rate pension has not altered, if people can appreciate the point I am making. It is interesting to note that the pension paid to totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen has increased from $30.50 in 1967 to $39 today and that the intermediate rate pension has increased from $21.25 to $29. 
Dealing with those pensioners who are in receipt of a pension below the 75 per cent rate, I agree entirely with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that anyone receiving below that rate of pension certainly has not received an increase since 1964. It is time that something was done about it. I am sure that the Minister is sympathetic about this and is doing all that he possibly can to persuade the Government but, after all, he is only one member of the Ministry and naturally has to be guided by what the Ministry decides. To my mind, it is imperative that consideration foe given to the pensioners concerned. If a person was worthy to receive S8.40 in 1964- that amount was classified then as the 70 per cent rate pension- - then in present conditions he surely is entitled to some increase. It is up to the Government to decide what the increase should be. The pension is given to him for a disability that he suffers as a result of war service. If he was entitled to the pension in 1964 he is entitled to it today. 1 agree also with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in regard to the funeral grant. It has remained unaltered at $50 for many years. That amount could be doubled or trebled. Any increase would not make a great deal of difference to Treasury funds but it would be of great importance to the people concerned. Like other honourable members in this place, I am a member of an organisation known as Legacy and I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the various clubs throughout this country certainly have great problems facing them because of the very small amount of money which is 'made available by the Repatriation Department following the death of an ex-serviceman. 
The other important point the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made related lo his request for a joint select committee to be appointed to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspects of the provisions and operations of 'the Repatriation Act. I agree with him to a certain extent. I do not want to see a select committee set up but I agree with the principle behind his request. It is time that we had an inquiry into all aspects of repatriation because it is only natural that as time goes on a certain number of anomalies will creep into the legislation. I would like a committee to be set up specifically for the purpose of inquiring into all aspects of repatriation. The most important thing of all would be to keep party politics out of any recommendations that the committee might make. If a select committee were appointed it is obvious that a certain degree of party politics would influence it, and that would be wrong. As 1 have said, I support the principle of the establishment of a committee of inquiry but certainly not along the lines suggested by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. One of the reasons why we should have an inquiry is to ensure that the submissions and evidence of those who wish to give evidence are made public, because I believe that there is far too much misunderstanding about repatriation matters. Too many people have the idea that just because a person is an ex-serviceman it is a matter of going along to the Repatriation Department and filling out forms, and if that person is prepared to wait, is prepared to lobby or is prepared to do a few other things he will succeed in his demands. I have great respect for the Repatriation Department. It is only natural that there may be isolated cases where some person is receiving too much or too little. But the all-important thing is we have to make sure that no-one is receiving too little. 
I now want to refer to a publication by  Dr John  Whiting which no doubt some honourable members have read, because it has been widely circulated. I was privileged to look at it, and I have read it. 1 have read quite a few sections of it on more than one occasion. I am disgusted to think that a member of the medical profession who has had an association with repatriation should have made the suggestions contained in this book. I have no intention of quoting at great length but I want to draw the attention of the House to 2 parts of the book which refer to a former member of the Women's Australian Auxiliary Air Force. This servicewoman is referred to in the book as Cookie. One part of the book reads: 
Cookie is now drawing 100 per cent pension, as well as being able to get treatment for practically anything free of charge. She can now have a new television set, a new refrigerator, and a new washing machine, without even worrying about trade-ins,  every  year of her life, or if she likes travelling, she can take a holiday round the world every three years if she wishes, at the taxpayers' expense. 
This is a shocking indictment. This article implies not only that Cookie receives a 100 per cent rate pension but also that she gets all these things as well. The true situation no doubt would be that if she were prepared to save all her pensions she would be able to buy these things. 
Another part of the book refers to Cookie being married and her husband being in receipt of a 100 per cent rate pension. It reads: 
In the meantime, Cookie's husband, who originally met her when he was a bar steward in the Officers' Mess, realises that he too can get in for his pickings. Within a further year, they are both on 100 per cent pensions. Between them now they can take their annual three weeks' holiday by flying to the United States of America and back, at the taxpayers' expense. 
As I said, this is the type of thing which should be aired in places like this. The public should be made aware of the fact that these sorts of statements are misleading. There are numerous ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen who are receiving their full pension entitlement but who certainly are not abusing their rights as this man suggests. 
I support the principle of this Bill because I believe that in the circumstances the Government had no alternative but to grant an increase in the general rate pension to social service pensioners and to certain Service pensioners who come under the control of the Repatriation Department. Although I appreciate and agree with many of the issues raised this afternoon by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I oppose the amendment. I support the Bill. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a statement attributed to  Mr Borthwick,  Minister for Lands, in the Victorian State Parliament yesterday when amongst other things he said that the rural aid plan is sure to fail; that out of 78 applications processed only 2 would qualify; and that you,  Mr Prime  Minister, had asked State governments tj agree to the scheme by Friday, which is today? In view of such statements, I ask the Prime Minister: What States have agreed to your recent request? Has Victoria offered any alternative to the Commonwealth proposals? Does the Prime Minister share the State Minister's pessimism in what appears to be a determined effort by the Commonwealh to try to help those primary producers who, through no fault of Government policy, but rather the international position, find themselves in financial difficulies? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry received from the Australian Farmers Federation a request to the effect that the $10Om rural reconstruction proposals are insufficient and that it recommends the expending of $500m? Does the Minister agree that this would be an improvement on the present proposals and that it would go a long way to helping to solve the primary producers' problems? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government grant income tax deduction for donation over $2 made towards the relief of overseas disaster area. 
That this be effected with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
and he appears to me- 
I always try to be kind to the honourable member because I believe he does need sympathy from time to time when he is discussing issues such as we have before us at the moment. We have heard quite a bit from him. But the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who spoke this morning, and the honourable member for Riverina did not put forward one proposition to try to rectify the problems within the wool industry. 
The honourable member for Riverina made great play of a point about people refusing to accept the 36c wool deficiency payment. But he made no mention of what the Opposition would do. I want to answer some of the matters raised by the honourable members although 1 should not be wasting my time on them. However, I would like to refer to the suggestion that the Australian Country Party should leave the coalition because this contention should be answered. 1 believe that one always has to look at such a suggestion and see what the alternative is. This is the simple way of doing it. It is pretty obvious to me what the result would be if the Country Party left the coalition. If they did, as some members on the opposite side would like it to do, the growers would not get even 36c per lb for their wool. They possibly would get no more than 30c, the ruling price today. If the Country Party left the coalition we would have a crises in government, the Government would eventually resign and we would have to go to the people. Maybe the Opposition through promises would win the government benches. If it did - and I agree with my colleagues that I do not think it would - a lot of time would have elapsed in the meantime and we would be half way through the wool selling season and all of the wool that had been sold in the first 6 months would have been sold for about 29c plus per lb. That would be the advantage that the Riverina wool growers would get. 
I will not answer any more of the hypothetical questions raised by the honourable member for Riverina because I know, as this debate proceeds, that his arguments will get knocked over one by one. Over the years this Parliament has debated many important subjects and some minor ones, but there has been no more important subject of benefit to one section of the community than the one we are dealing with right now. The purpose of this Bill is to give approval for making a deficiency payment to wool growers and so assure them of a reasonable return for the year's labour. This legislation will not create a lot of millionaires as has been suggested by some people, particularly by the members of the Opposition who have spoken today. But it certainly will help growers to survive through a most difficult period - no doubt the most difficult period in their history. 
The actual sale prices today are running at about the equivalent of 1947 prices while our costs, naturally, are at 1971 levels. If we compare returns with costs the result must be classified as an all-time record low. I would like to ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a table taken from the 'Wool Outlook' of August 1971. I have spoken to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about this and he is agreeable. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The total return to the Australian wool grower as quoted in the table for the year 1970-71 is less than $550m compared with $840m 2 years ago. I say that we cannot take a third of a grower's income away from him without the loss having some drastic effect on him financially. 
In supporting this legislation one naturally must" ask the question: Why has the price declined and how can we have it improved? As a representative of a large wool growing electorate - and no doubt most honourable members know and appreciate the point that I am a grower myself - I have, like a lot of other honourable members, devoted quite a deal of my time to trying to find the solution or answer to some of the questions which have been raised. If one were to ask the growers generally for their answers one would expect to hear a great variety of solutions. These would vary from floor price schemes, guaranteed minimum price, total acquisition ranging right through to a leave it alone and it will right itself type of policy. Although the last idea is in the minds of some people I do not think it would go very far in the electorate today. I believe that the Government and the industry and indeed, the Opposition, have a very great responsibility in helping to find a solution. If the Opposition is not prepared to help the Government find a solution without bringing up hypothetical arguments, it is certainly not a responsible Opposition. A solution will be found only by very sound thinking, discussions and negotiations by all parties that are really concerned about the industry's future. 
I deplore the comments of some of the people who are crying doom and who try to make cheap political capital out of the misfortunes of wool growers without offering any type of solution or constructive criticism. No industry can expect to develop without some form of confidence and unity within itself. While some people are urging disunity within the industry, real solution naturally will never be found. Before we can secure an answer to any problems we must sort out the reasons and the causes of such. 
The simple answer is that buyers do not appear to want to pay satisfactory prices. Why is this the case? This is what we really have to find out. I believe that this situation has been brought about by a number of reasons, the chief one being that the quantity of apparel available to the consumer is at a record high level. Man-made fibres have increased beyond all expectation over the last 2 decades. While woollen products have in the past been recognised as a top class commodity this unfortunately is not the belief of some people today. They have turned to the brighter colours; they have accepted the cheaper type, changing styles with quick repurchases and replacements. While wool is still a top class material the controllers of it have not been able to keep pace with its competitors. This has had its effect on consumption and thereby on demand and consequently the actual prices. Countries like Japan virtually overbought some 2 years ago because of the drop in demand from the United States. In this morning's Melbourne 'Age' there was an article in the financial pages entitled: 'The US Economy - Nixon Puts deadline on textiles'. The article read: 
Washington, October 13. - President Nixon yesterday threatened to take steps against Japan and other countries if they fail to show this week that they will agree to curb textile exports to the United States. 

 Mr Nixon, using his toughest language so far in the long wrangle over textiles, publicly confirmed the United States had set an October 15 deadline for breaking the deadlock in the negotations. 
Later the article stated: 
However, officials in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong have said the United States has threatened to impose quotas on non-cotton textile imports. 
There is not a great deal of difference between 99 per cent and 101 per cent but it can certainly make a very big difference in the outcome because, as I said, whilst there is very little difference it does mean on one hand a shortage and on the other a glut. So this is the position we are in today. We have more wool available than the buyers are prepared to purchase at reasonably economical prices. 
The Australian Wool Commission established last year to a degree has taken part of the shock by its purchase of those wools which were not securing a reasonable price on the day of auction. For the life of me, I would not hazard a guess at what would be the position today if the old system was still the order of the day. The growers and the present Government have, over a number of years, contributed a considerable amount of money in an endeavour to increase the demand for wool. They have been partly successful but not sufficiently successful. They, through the Australian Woo! Board and the International Wool Secretariat, have spent large amounts of money on research and promotion. 
Over the last 2 years the Government has contributed a considerable amount of money for promotion and research. I think that the amount 2 years ago was somewhere in the vicinity of $15m for promotion and research and for the last financial year the amount had increased to $28.9m, almost double the figure of 2 years ago. We have all had our ideas as to its success or otherwise and while there has been some success in the promotion field I believe that promotion will never solve the problems of a surplus if the goods which we are trying to sell are not of the quality which the purchaser demands. This is most important. This is the position in the wool industry today. 
We have quite a record of achievement in research but despite this it is not sufficient. Under the circumstances I believe that the IWS has used to the best of its ability the amount of money that has been made available to it.I might add that unless we continue to increase our financial contribution to the IWS we will find that the activities of this organisation will doubtless slacken because of the increased costs in the field in which it operates. Japan is a typical example in terms of successful research and promotion as far as the IWS is concerned. I was privileged to visit Japan recently and I took the opportunity to explore many areas of the wool trade. I spoke to people in the consumer field right through to the manufacturing section. It is very evident that the IWS has had a lot of success with its research as well as with promotion. The IWS has been able to convince the Japanese people that wool can be used successfully to replace many other commodities such as manmade fibres, cotton and even silk.I have personally seen commodities which were previously 100 per cent silk and are now made entirely of wool. I do not believe that this was brought about by accident but rather is it a case of sheer determination by members of the IWS to dispose of our wool. Again I say that had the IWS not been so active then the consumption of wool in this part of the world would be much less than it is today. 
In the United Kingdom, which is the headquarters of the Secretariat, the people involved there have not been idle in respect to either the promotion or research side of wool. The Secretariat now has a treatment known as chlorine hercosett. It is a liquid treatment used in the early stages of wool manufacture. It was originated at the Geelong research centre of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and it is now being implemented in various parts of the world including Ilkley, near Bradford in the United Kingdom. Early tests have proved that as a result woollen goods can be machine washed with no ill effects. If this treatment can be introduced Into the trade as a general practice then I believe that we can expect to see a great lift in the demand for wool. 
There is no need for me to elaborate on the effects of Woolmark. Woolmark is having a very big effect throughout the world in retail stores. The recent decision of the IWS to include blends is one that, as I have already said, has been overdue for some time. It is a major decision and I believe that it will be very successful in the long term. Unfortunately we have a surplus of wool right now. The present supply exceeds demands. In 1967-68 the estimated world production was 2,690 million kilograms and for 1970-71 this estimate had increased to 2,704 million kilograms. I would seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table on the estimated world wool production. I have spoken to the Minister about this. 
I am surprised that noone else from the Opposition side has risen to speak. I believe that a couple of other members of the Opposition were to speak, but evidently they have lost their interest or knowledge. Perhaps I can persuade them to do something. I was rather interested to listen to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  answering some pf the comments of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who spoke in this debate earlier this evening. I thought that, the honourable member for Dawson spent his dme talking not so much about this Bill as about a stabilised industry as such. All of his comments were based on a future stabilisation plan that should be introduced, no doubt, some 12 months or so from now. To a certain degree these comments apply to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I was amazed to listen to the honourable member for Riverina talk on and on and all around the subject. He put forward suggestions that have been ruled out time and time again by the industry. However as these suggestions came from the bright honourable member for Riverina, in his mind they must be right. 
I do, however, agree with some of the comments of the honourable member for Dawson when he referred to the increased cost of producing a bushel of wheat resulting from a form of restriction such as a quota scheme. It is easy to understand that costs are spread over production in various ways. Undoubtedly there is little one can do about reducing the capital cost of producing wheat. As quotas are reduced on a particular harvest naturally this increases costs. When we reach the stage of renewing the wheat stabilisation plan next year this is an aspect we must consider. 1 am sure that the present Government again will be negotiating successfully with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and no doubt wheat growers will benefit as a result. 
Actually this Bill guarantees to the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank an amount up to SI 50m. This is necessary because of the application of section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which prescribes that money borrowed from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank must be repaid within a period of 12 months. This measure has been introduced to cover the wheat industry for a period of time. The interest rate will be 5i per cent. It is to be hoped that the moneys will be repaid when the wheat is eventually sold and paid for. I say 'paid for' because at present the wheat industry is experiencing difficulty with respect to international sales. Some of our competing countries have become somewhat hard sellers and as a result, the Australian Wheat Board, representing Australian wheat growers, also has had to be firm and hard in its negotiations. Unfortunately, in order to be able to meet some of its commitments, the Board has had to dispose of some wheat on credit. 
For the benefit of some honourable members opposite who do not seem to appreciate how the system works and payments are made I remind them that the Wheat Board borrows from the Reserve Bank an amount to cover the first advance to growers plus a certain sum for management purposes. Naturally the Board's first responsibility is to make sure that the amount borrowed is repaid. After that is done, the Board continues to sell wheat and, as it receives payment, second and subsequent payments are made to growers until that particular wheat pool is wound up. The whole reason for the introduction of this Bill is related to what may be classified as surplus stocks. After all, the industry has moved through a position of over-production with extremely high stocks to a stage now of satisfactory stocks. Some people will say that stocks are dangerously low but I do not think they have quite reached that stage. Restraints on production were introduced in 1969 because of the huge amount of wheat that was in store in Australia. It was the industry's decision that there should be introduced some form of curfew, restriction, quota - call it what we may - and the Commonwealth and State governments co-operated with the industry. 
It is interesting, too, to note the success that the Australian Wheat Board has had in the last 12 months. Last year we started with a carryover of some 265 million bushels and despite the fact that some States had bad seasons deliveries to the Board were in the vicinity of 254 million bushels. This gave the Board an availability of 519 million bushels. Last year it disposed of a record quantity of wheat - 394 million bushels - which meant that at the end of the wheat season, which was 30th November, the Board had a carryover of only 125 million bushels. I believe that this is a satisfactory carryover. The Wheat Board managed to dispose of wheat despite some hard competition from our neighbouring countries. However I would suggest caution. We cannot lift the lid off the industry at this stage, despite the fact that we are reducing our surplus stocks. I am mindful of the problems that other countries experienced last year: For example, corn blight in the United States of America and the waterfront strike on the west coast of the United States. I believe this certainly played into the hands of the Australian Wheat Board. It enabled Australia to get into some markets that otherwise may have gone to the American industry. Today, of course, the signs are different. There has been a record crop in the United States and the barley crop in Canada is at an almost record high. In America increased plantings are being made. The devaluation of the United States dollar gives the United States an added advantage in respect of prices. All in all this will not help our selling programme. Activity in the European Economic Community also will not assist us. 
I believe that the introduction of a proposal put forward by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation a few months ago to increase the overall Australian quota to 407 million bushels, which has been accepted by the Commonwealth Government, is a sound and responsible decision. The honourable member for Riverina, whom I cannot see in the chamber at present, was somewhat critical of this proposal. He has the idea that we should lift the lid right off. Of course, he must fully realise that if the lid were lifted there would be chaos in the industry. We would find large tracts of country where we are perhaps grazing a few sheep at unprofitable prices today turned overnight to the production of wheat and coarse grains. For the life of me I can never understand the attitude of the honourable member for Riverina but I suppose one should really understand and appreciate that his practical knowledge of the industry is such that he does not really know what is happening in it. 
The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation over the years has taken many responsible decisions and there has been a certain amount of criticism that the Commonwealth was not prepared to go along with the Board's first recommendations. All I want to say to the House on this matter is that it was unfortunate that there was a great deal of publicity given to this before there was any real finalisation of the price. The situation can be likened to that of  a  person seeking to buy a new home. He does not decide that his first bid will be his maximum bid. He naturally tries to get the house as cheaply as he possibly can. Following this he goes into negotiation. The same applies to the Government and the wheat industry who negotiate wheat sales. It is unfortunate that there was so much publicity given to the fact that this was to be the price before any finalisation on it was reached. 
This is a very simple Bill. I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield that there is not a great deal in it on which one can expand other than to say that it is absolutely necessary for the wheat industry. Without it, of course, we would not be able to make available to the growers that amount of money which is required as a reasonable first advance. In addition, after the funds had to be returned there would be so little money available that the growers would have to wait many years before they could get their second and subsequent payments. I can see nothing wrong with this legislation. I am surprised that some Opposition members who have spoken in this debate have tried to make some political capital out of such matters as interest rates and the other issues involved with it. Of course we would all like to see lower interest rates; this is only natural. Any person who borrows money wants to see lower interest rates. One of the problems within most rural industries of today is not so much the rate of interest but the term of the loan and this is dealt with in this Bill. 
The question of who is entitled to the lower interest rates is where there is a difference of opinion. I represent many nural dwellers and naturally would support the principle of low interest rates for rural dwellers. Honourable members representing people in newer housing areas would want to see lower interest rates for housing. And so I could go on through every industry in the Commonwealth; they would all want lower interest rates. The question then would be: Who will pay the high interest rates? This is what many of those people who seek lower interest rates overlook. I thank the Government for introducing this measure. I am sure it will be appreciated by the wheat industry as a whole and I would certainly recommend to the House that it be passed without delay. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to. 
Call a halt to ail closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I appreciate that the Honey Industry Bill is a rather confined one. It is confined virtually to the changing of the membership or the appointment of the membership of the Australian Honey Board. I also appreciate that we have had a fairly lengthy discussion this evening covering many angles of the subject of honey and the Australian Honey Board. Many statistics have been mentioned. I do not wish to go into all the details of those statistics. But there are one or two points with which I would like to associate myself at this juncture. It would appear to me that a few rather contentious issues have been raised. Some members have even doubted the wisdom of having a honey board. I do not wish to become involved in this argument other than to say that while we may have only a few hundred eligible producers, nevertheless they are important, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  pointed out. From memory, he said that about 696 producers are eligible for a vote out of approximately 3,500 producers of honey. He also said that most of these producers produce a very small quantity and as a result it could hardly be classified as being their main income earner. That is true and I appreciate that. But I think that this is all the more reason why we should give every consideration to assisting the Board and bringing it up to a stage where it can actually assist those producers. 
I do not think there is any doubt that since, the Board was established in 1962 it has been successful. Possibly it has not been as successful as some producers would like. This is only natural. I think it was the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who made great play on the fact that the proposed Board is not composed of a majority of growers. Objections of this kind are not confined to this industry. We must consider obtaining people in this industry who are capable of running the Board, mindful of the fact that they represent such a very small industry. If it happens that packers are more capable of becoming members of the Board, let us have more packers on it. That is the way I would view it, because 1 see nothing wrong in having 5 from the grower section on a board with a membership of 10. I do not think there is any need for me to spell out the. importance of the eligibility provision of ownership of 200 hives. Its importance is obvious. lt is necessary to make sure that there is an organisation capable of promoting the sale and disposing of the honey produced. The beekeeping industry produces Jess than $5m worth of honey annually. It is therefore obvious that it does not have the wherewithal to make a big play on the promotion side. I do not think many people would doubt that Australian honey oan compete for quality with honey produced anywhere in the world. Our big concern now is to make sure that we can produce enough honey to be able to enter into the world market. In this area the Board can play a very big part. We want to strengthen the ability of the board. If that can be done by changing its structure in the manner we are discussing tonight, this Bill will be worth while. That is why I support it. 
We are discussing a statement made in this House by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in which he announced new proposals agreed upon by the Commonwealth and the States relating to rural reconstruction. Last year honourable members will recall that the Parliament approved legislation appropriating $100m to the States in a genuine attempt to try to help primary producers who were found to be in financial difficulties. Under a formula laid down it was proposed that $10Om be made available over a 5-year period including the latter portion of the 1970-71 financial year. It is very easy for the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to say that this figure was insufficient. 
Mi  SPEAKER  - This is not a point of order relating to the debate at the present time. I will deal with the matter after the honourable member finishes speaking. 
I think that people who heard the point of order raised by the honourable member for Grayndler would fully appreciate his attitude to honourable members on the Government side of the House. Before I was rather rudely interrupted I was saying that it is very easy for the honourable member for Dawson to say that the amount of money allocated has been insufficient. But what we must remember is that this legislation was never meant to cover all debts loaded against the primary producers. If it were, $10Om certainly would be insufficient. If we wanted to cover all debts we would have to provide many thousands of millions of dollars. That was not the purpose of the legislation. 
It is also rather easy for the honourable member for Dawson to suggest that the scheme should have been introduced earlier and that lt should be permanent. I wonder what the Opposition would have done 3, 4 or 5 years ago under the conditions then existing? I remind honourable members that the biggest problem facing primary producers at that time was the drought, and the Government of the day made available to the States for the purposes of drought assistance a figure in the vicinity of, or in excess of, $100m. That money was allocated to the various States according to the conditions prevailing in those States. Matching grants were involved and conditions varied tremendously. Assistance has been provided not only for drought but for all the other catastrophes that primary producers run into from time to time. It is not possible to lay down a permanent scheme. That is equitable for all States, for all conditions and for all time. Therefore I dismiss the comments made by the honourable member for Dawson earlier today. 
Under this plan it was expected, broadly speaking, that some SO per cent of the funds would be used for debt reconstruction and SO per cent for farm build-up. It was taken for granted that in the early stages of the programme the demand for immediate finance would exceed the demand for farm build-up. This was only natural. However, in the long term it was expected that an equal amount of money would be available for the all-important question of farm build-up. 
The figures that I have been able to secure show that to the end of March this year some 4,466 of the applications received were for debt reconstruction and 1,385 were for farm build-up. A study of the applications received indicate that the percentage for farm build-up purposes is increasing as time goes on, as I will show from other figures that have been made available. In October last year some 70 applications were received for farm buildup and in February this year the figure had increased to 183. In October last year the number for debt reconstruction was 248 and this increased to only 396 in February. Last September the figure was 503. Therefore it can be said that applications for debt reconstruction are falling off. However I do not accept that conclusion simply because the figures indicate this at this stage. We believe that in time there will be many more applications. 
Out of the 7,000-odd applications received, 2,000 were approved, 3,537 were rejected, the remainder being still under consideration. For farm build-up, 358 were accepted and 548 were rejected. The reasons for the high rejection rate were many and varied. They ranged from nonviability to being unnecessary. In the case of those deemed unnecessary it was considered that the applicants could carry on successfully without further assistance. I think we should be mindful of the fact that some people would be done a disservice if they were lent too much. Terms cf repayment are very acceptable because they have been increased now from 20 years to 30 years. 
The States came in for a great deal of criticism on the grounds of the interpretation of one word, that being 'viable', What is viability? What does it mean? If an application is refused on viable grounds does it mean that the primary producer is considered to have no future? If this is so I do not necessarily agree with such decisions. The States virtually have had one eye on viability and the other on the funds to cover the project. I will be kind and say that it is the latter consideration which has had a very big bearing on some of the final decisions on many applications. But I believe that a number of applications should not have been affected by that consideration. Viability is a very broad word and one that can be used either in favour of an applicant or against him. However, what is the basis of the authority's interpretation? This is what the applicants are asking. Let us consider wool, for instance. What is the true value of wool? What does the authority expect a grower's return to be? Is it expected to be the 30c prevailing last year, the average price, the 36c guaranteed in the last 12 months, or the present price which is about 40c plus? Wheat growers face a similar uncertain position. How much wheat is a grower permitted to grow? It is not a case of how much he can grow. It is in this respect that we must examine the word 'viability'. 
In my opinion any doubt about viability should be resolved in favour of the applicant. That is my contention, providing that that principle is not carried too far. Honourable members must remember that when the various State bodies are dealing with such applications it is not a case of a few dollars but many thousands of dollars to each individual. The average allocation to those approved for debt reconstruction is between $24,000 and $25,000, and for farm build-up it is about $27,000. If honourable members care to study these figures it will be easy for them to see that up to 30th March this year the States had committed themselves to a figure which in fact exceeded the quota for the first year. This is not to say that all States have exceeded it because I understand that some are well within their limits. Having said that, I must say that although that amount of money has been committed it has not necessarily all been spent or handed out to the various applicants. 
It is evident that if the original total allocation of Si 00m had not been increased or spread over a shorter period the original plan would have failed to do what the Government wanted it to do. As a result of a number of discussions between the Commonwealth and State Ministers the $100m originally allocated has now been spread over the first 2 years of the original plan and is now due for expenditure by the end of the financial year 1972-73. In addition an extra $15m has been granted by the Commonwealth Government, plus an extra ' $3m for Queensland because of the extreme drought conditions in that State. In his statement the Minister said ' that there would be an additional $3m matching grant from Queensland. The extra SI 5m is being allocated in accordance with the same formula and under the same conditions and is being made available for the commencement of the following financial year. However, any additional allocations will be made only after further discussions with the States. In his statement- the Minister for Primary Industry also mentioned the allocations to the States.- I think I should repeat them for the' purposes of record and for the benefit of those people who are not aware of the actual allocations. Under the new agreement New South Wales will receive $36.8m instead of the original $32m; Victoria $25.4m instead of the original $22.07m; Queensland $24.4m instead of the original $16m, and this includes the extra $3m matching grant from the Queensland Government; South Australia $13. 8m instead of the original $12m; Western Australia $16. 8m instead of the original $14.63m; and Tasmania $3.8m instead of the original $3.3m. If these allocations are added together and coupled with the $9.5m which is available to the various States under the old agreement, it makes a total of $1 30.5m. 
On the rehabilitation side I am sure the announcement to the effect that the maximum amount of the special loan for those leaving the industry will be increased from $1,000 to $3,000 will be welcomed. All honourable members appreciate that $1,000 today for someone leaving a properly is not very much and that $3,000 certainly is ever so much better. Even if it does not meet an individual's requirements, it is a big improvement and no doubt will assist him to no end. As a result of the new conditions of rural reconstruction, as agreed to by both the Commonwealth and the States, I am equally sure that the scope of the various State authorities will be broadened. This, in turn, I hope will bring into the scheme "many primary producers who previously would not have qualified. I think that a word of commendation must go to the Government for its decision to reduce the period in which the States can distribute the funds available to them. The Government and the Minister in particular have taken full advantage of clause 24 of the schedule to the Act. That clause is entitled "Review" and sub-clause (1.) of it reads: 
The operation of the scheme in relation to all of the States will be reviewed from time to time as appropriate by the Commonwealth and the States in the light of experience in its administration. 
Should we go along with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who is suggesting that we virtually should disregard this provision? Sub-clause (2.) reads: 
A review under sub-clause (1.) of this clause shall be carried out not later than the time necessary to enable to be brought into operation by the first day of July, 1972 any adjustments or amendments which it may be agreed should be made to the scheme in respect of - 
the funds to be provided for the scheme; 
the allocation of funds between the States; 
the provisions for losses (other than unforeseen losses) and write-offs available to the States under the scheme; 
the interest rates to be charged to borrowers; and 
the proportion of the financial assistance applied to farm build-up. 
These are the original conditions laid down in the Act. Those conditions give the Government and the Minister ample scope to conduct further negotiations with the States. This has been done. I commend the Government. I commend the Minister and I suggest that the proposals will be of great advantage to those primary producers who are in financial difficulties today. 
Spread doom, gloom and despondency; sap the confidence of the people; ruin the economy; use the words 'swindle', 'scandal' and 'phoney': This appears to be the Budget policy of the Opposition. An article on the front page of this morning's 'Australian Financial Review' states: 
Opposition leader Gough Whitlam's Budgetcumelectioncampaign speech to Parliament last night failed to stir either his supporters or opponents. 
How true this is. It would be one of the flattest replies I have heard. (Quorum formed). I thank the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  for bringing to our notice the fact that a quorum was not present. It is very obvious to all that honourable members opposite do not like the truth. They do not like the facts. As I was saying, the contribution of the Leader of the Opposition last evening was one of the flattest I have heard since entering this Parliament. He failed to answer the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in more ways than one. He failed to offer any alternative. I believe that in a few words his speech could be summed up by saying: He was so stunned at the introduction of the Treasurer's Budget a week ago that he has not been able to overcome it. The statement last evening following his address in this chamber regarding currency revaluation staggers me, as it would stagger the whole of the electorate. He appears to have forgotten the important point that Australia lives on its exports. Australia depends on exports in many fields in primary industry and secondary industry. I am only too happy to hear the Leader of the Opposition talking this way, because when he goes to the electorate he will find that this is not what the people want. 
I believe that this Budget, in contrast to the contribution of the Leader of the Opposition, is one of the brightest budgets I have seen in the 14 years that I have been privileged to sit in this chamber. It will help the needy and the elderly. It will encourage growth and production, and I believe to a large degree it will help to counter the cost spiral which has had such an adverse effect on many industries throughout Australia. Much has been said by Opposition members and by people outside that certain grants to rural industries have been reduced and therefore the Budget cannot be classified as a satisfactory budget for primary industries. I want to counter that argument. To my mind that statement is absurd, because if we look at the figures and add them up it is very easy to see a reduction in certain grants to particular industries. But there is more in assisting an industry than an outright gift. Sometimes my colleagues opposite forget this point. It is possible for a government to have poor policies and at the same time hand out thousands of millions of dollars and yet not be assisting an industry to the best advantage. The first concern of most primary producers today is costs. The second is the returns they secure from the various commodities that they produce. Anything that will assist these 2 issues must be better than straightout grants which will only temporarily solve the situation. 
I am sure that 1 have heard members, no doubt from both sides of the House, say in this House that this or that industry is in trouble and therefore we should assist it financially. If this is the case these same people should agree that if those industries improve their position it is only right and proper that the assistance should be less. Primary industries are now on the way up. Wheat is in demand, so much so that stocks are low. Wool prices are improving almost daily. The demand for beef is high. Mutton and lamb prices are at almost a record high. In view of that position the estimates may be subject to reduction, but the important thing is that both wheat and wool are still under guarantees. 
I return now to the amount of money to be paid as grants, set out in the Budget speech under the heading 'Payments to Industry'. At first glance it shows a deficit this year of $64m, but a detailed study reveals that the biggest reduction comes from wool deficiency payments - from $52. 8m to $lm. I can say with confidence that no wool grower, with the present guarantee of 36c per lb equivalent, wants to see money paid out in the form of deficiency payments. Judging by the opening sales this week, there is no fear of it. 
In relation to wheat stabilisation the Budget provides for a reduction from $58m to S47m. In the minds of some people this is a reduction but the figure must be compared with payments in the previous year under that heading. The payment was only $29m, and as explained by the Treasurer, last year's payment included the Commonwealth contribution for 2 pools. This year it will account for only one pool. 
The Opposition is making great play of the lack of wheat sales to mainland China. I again remind honourable members opposite that China wants a variety of wheat that is in short supply in Australia. I refer to the hard types which China wants to purchase on credit. Had we sold wheat to China this year, what would have been the position? Would we have been in a position to sell 1 million metric tons of wheat to Russia for cash? Do growers want cash sales or credit sales? My guess is that they want cash when they can get it and for second preference they want the best terms possible; in other words, the shorter the term, the better the deal. Honourable members opposite are making a lot of noise. 
I think that is dead right. Turning to other industry payments it is interesting to note that the fruit industry, including the dried vine fruits industry, and the egg industry, received increased payments, as is also true of the allocation of funds for fertilisers, petroleum products, rural reconstruction and wool marketing, certainly not forgeting the $20m set aside for a move to establish long term credit facilities for the rural industries. There is no doubt that a lot of work will have to be carried out before this proposal is implemented and we should not be too critical of it at this stage. When it is implemented I can see that it will be a terrific boon to primary producers. When comparing long term lending repayments with short term repayments it is easy to see the advantages. For instance, a loan at 7 per cent interest repayable over 5 years means that it will have to be repaid on the basis of 24.39 per cent a year. On a 20-year loan it would be at the rate of 9.44 per cent. For 30 years it would be 8.06 per cent. 
If a primary producer borrows on a 5- year basis to the extent of 50 per cent of the capital involved it means that he must clear a profit of about  122  per cent after all expenses and taxes are paid. If this were possible primary producers who have paid for their properties would soon become very wealthy men. Few industries can show year after year a profit after tax of 12 per cent. That is why I welcome the Government's decision not only to investigate but also to try to implement a form of long term lending at a very early date. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  in the form usually followed by members of the Opposition, is trying to drive a wedge between the Government parties in the hope that by doing so the coalition will break. I can assure honourable members opposite that it will not break. I am sure that the present Government will be able to introduce the necessary legislation provided the Opposition does not indulge in too many delaying tactics. 
I mentioned earlier assistance to industries and I want now to refer briefly to the egg industry. The Treasurer has stated that a sum of $750,000 has been set aside for the egg industry. In recent times the egg industry asked the Government for assistance to lift the price of eggs by 1.5c a dozen. To cover that increase the industry sought a grant of $3.5m. The Government examined the proposition very thoroughly and reached the conclusion that the price of eggs could be increased by 1.5c a dozen by paying direct to the poultry industry fund a sum of $750,000 to be used for equalisation purposes as a supplement to the hen levy collection of $3. 5m. Of course, this contribution is subject to the agreement of the State governments to implement production controls if the need arises so that surplus egg pulp can be disposed of. I might point out that the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Agriculture at a recent Agricultural Council meeting agreed in principle to this course. I therefore suggest to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  that he has acted a little belatedly in raising this question today. 
Because of moves by the State egg boards to dispose of surplus eggs it is expected that the stocks of egg pulp will be negligible at the end of this year. In turn, this will cut storage costs and will enable the boards to approach future seasons with some confidence. If this plan is carried out the honourable member for Bendigo will have no further worries about the storage costs of egg pulp amounting to about $1. 5m a year. 
It may be of interest to the House to know that the domestic price of eggs is based on the export price plus the contribution made by the hen levy. If the quality and quantity of exports are reduced, the levy plus the Commonwealth contribution will have a very favourable bearing on the home consumption price. It is the Government's contention that exports and surplus egg pulp can be reduced provided such surpluses are used for special manufacturing purposes. 
I believe that the decisions reached recently by the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Agriculture - incidentally honourable members opposite might note that those Ministers include representatives of the Labor Party, Liberal Party and Country Party, who agreed also on many other issues - will mean in the long term that the egg industry will be placed on a very sound footing, provided that production controls are implemented on a realistic basis. I have said that the Ministers for Agriculture at the recent Agricultural Council conference agreed on many issues. Whilst I do not have time now to go deeply into the question of the wool industry I can assure the House that when this matter was raised at that recent conference all the Ministers present accepted the conditions of the announcement that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  a few weeks ago. I think this proves the point that those people who are still very critical of the Government's decision should at least start looking a little more closely at their own policies. As all the Ministers agreed at the Agricultural Council conference it shows that a reasonable approach was adopted by the Labor Ministers. 
I could not let this occasion pass without referring briefly to social service and repatriation benefits. In the words of the Treasurer, The Government's commitment to introduce free of means test pensions for people aged 65 or over is an his torical decision and represents a major social advance.' I believe that to be the understatement of the year. The easing of the means test by 100 per cent is tantamount to removing it for all benefit purposes for needy persons. Permissible income of $20 for a single person and $34.50 for a married couple, plus pensions of $20 and $34 respectively is a mighty improvement. It will mean for all practical purposes that a part pension will be paid to single persons whose income is less than $60 a week and a married couple whose income is less than $103.50 a week. A single person's pension will be paid at the full rate on the basis of assets of $10,800 and will cut out on the basis of assets of $31,600. The full married rate will be paid on the basis of assets of $18,740 and will cut out on the basis of assets of $54,640. These figures apply, of course, when there is no other income. To my mind that is a major break-through as far as the pensioner and would-be pensioner is concerned, 
The increasing of the repatriation base rate pension by $2 a week for the first time for many years is also very welcome indeed. It is certainly well and truly overdue, I compliment the Minister for Repatriation for its introduction. All I would like to say is that I hope the Government will give consideration in the future to increasing the wife's allowance paid to the respective pensioners. If the wife's allowance was worth $X a number of years ago, I believe that the recipients of this allowance are entitled to some sort of a rise on today's figures. 
One thing that is of concern to me is the use of liquefied gas and the effect its use has on decreasing pollution. A great deal has been said in recent times about pollution, and rightly so. However, I am a little surprised that the Government intends to impose a special excise on liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles. That special excise is to be at the rate of 3c a litre. On the surface that appears to be a very small amount. But I have been informed by a user of liquefied gas that it is equal to about 13c a gallon for the normal fuel equivalent. It would appear to be very competitive with other forms of excise, but before liquefied gas can be used in any ordinary vehicle there has to be a certain conversion cost. To my mind these 2 added together would not encourage but rather discourage the increased use of this type of fuel. I am sure that the revenue derived from the implementation of this excise would be extremely small and that the cost per litre of collecting it could be comparatively high. In actual fact there could be little to be gained from it. I believe that liquefied gas is a form of fuel that could be used in the future to help counter pollution in our vast cities and that any encouragement of its use will be of great advantage to this country in the long term. 
I do not have the time to go through all the matters that I would naturally like to cover as far as this Budget is concerned. I have not had a chance to talk about the advantages of the announcement to the effect that there will be a reduction in the levy of personal income tax, about the allowance for self-education, estate duty, gift duty or the dependants allowance. I could go on at some length explaining the very items I have not had a chance to cover. The housing grant is to be increased from $500 to $750 and the value of the houses to which it will apply will be increased from $17,500 to $22,500. There is to be an increase of some $20m in our external aid, bringing it up into the vicinity of $220m, which is a magnificent achievement as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. It will put us in the classification of being round about the third highest contributor per capita of any contributing country in the world. We have a mighty record in this respect. The expenditure on education is to be increased to something like $426m. There is to be an increase in the defence vote of over $100m. Grants to the States are to be increased by something like $394m. Time has caught up with me. I conclude my remarks on this note: I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. I believe that the Treasurer has introduced a magnificent Budget. It certainly gives me a great deal of pleasure to support it. 
I rise to speak in this debate with 2 minds. I must say that I am very pleased that the Government has introduced certain legislation but I am terribly disappointed in the way in which the Opposition is treating the Bill. The House will recall that when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  introduced the Bill into the House some weeks ago the first reaction we had from the Opposition was a request to delay its introduction. After all this claptrap we have heard from the Opposition over the months and years to the effect that the Government is not doing anything towards helping the industry, we see the Opposition immediately trying to introduce delay tactics. 
We all regret that the shadow Minister for Primary Industry is ill, but the biggest disappointment of all was the fact that the Opposition appointed the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  as his substitute, and what a substitute he was. He waffled on and told us absolutely nothing about Labor policy in relation to wool. All he did was speak about what has happened in recent weeks and months. He told us nothing as to where the Labor Party stands on this issue of wool. The speech made by the honourable member for Riverina in the last half-hour has been the most disappointing we have heard from him. He endeavoured to misrepresent the statement made by the Minister this morning during question time. He accused the Minister of suggesting that the price of wool is too high. All I want to say to the honourable member for Riverina is that when he receives his copy of Hansard tomorrow morning he should read and study the reply made by the Minister. 
This Bill has many implications and naturally must be classified as one of the most important Bills affecting Australia's first industry, namely, the wool industry. This Bill establishes a Corporation combining the 2 organisations - the Australian Wool Commission and the Australian Wool Board - within the present establishment and gives the proposed Corporation the power to recommend what could be vast changes to the marketing and handling of the Australian wool clip as a whole, lt is being introduced at the behest of the Australian Wool Industry Conference because of the drastic changes that have taken place over recent times regarding financial returns to the wool growers. 
A few years ago wool accounted for some 50 per cent of our export income and last year, despite the fact that there was very little reduction in quantity, its value dropped to less than 15 per cent of our export income. The Opposition has stated from time to time that this situation has been caused by Government decisions. Nothing could be further from the truth. The price of wool has dropped on the international market because of a number of factors outside our control. 
You just keep quiet. You know nothing about wool. I am surprised that the honourable member for Bendigo is on the list of Opposition members who are to speak on this subject. I had a further disappointment this morning when I looked at the list of Opposition speakers on this Bill. Although he is unable to be present, it is interesting to note that the shadow Minister for Primary Industry the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is a public servant, is on the list. He was to be followed by an honourable member for South Australia,  Mr Fitzpatrick. 
I am sorry, New South Wales. 
That is all right. We do not hear enough of the voices of the members from New South Wales, with the exception of one, and we hear too much from him. Anyway, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  is a union secretary. Next on the list is the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who is a schoolteacher, then the honourable member for Riverina who is a journalist, and then the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who is a former minister of religion. I am happy to report that every one of the S speakers on the Government side is a wool grower. This is why I say that the Opposition's decisions and statements are certainly far from the truth. As I said a moment ago, the price of wool has dropped on the international market because of a number of factors outside the control of the Government. I refer to competition from other fibres and the uncertainty of the international currency situation a couple of years ago. The Government has been concerned about the future of this industry for quite a considerable time, and its concern goes far beyond the crisis that we have seen in recent times. On 2 occasions over the years the Commonwealth has put forward propositions to the industry so that it could make a decision in relation to marketing, with a certain amount of influence being directed towards acquisition or reserve price, but on both occasions the industry rejected the propositions. 
Two years ago the then Minister for Primary Industry introduced a Bill to set up the Australian Wool Commission with authority to acquire those types of wool that were not in immediate demand and were not bringing a reasonable return. The Government then followed this up by introducing a guarantee on wool prices. As a result of these 2 issues, plus the firming of international currency, the price of wool started to improve. I pay a tribute to the then Minister for Primary Industry for the action he took at that time. Today we see the average price of wool at a reasonable level. Some people are prepared to suggest that it is running too high too quickly. Because this morning the Minister gave us a warning about what does happen when the price goes too high, immediately the honourable member for Riverina said that the Minister had said that the price was too high. I believe that prices are just returning to a reasonable level at this stage and that we should not be over-alarmed at this. Costs to the grazier have risen and inflation has affected the value of the finished article. As a result of these 2 factors the presentday price is certainly not an unreasonable one. 
However, having said that, I believe the important issue is to have a suitable price and not one that is fluctuating unnecessarily from day to day. What has been concerning the Minister and, no doubt, many other people for quite some time is this fluctuating price and this constant upsurge of the price over a short period. I think we all agree that if the price of a commodity goes up too quickly it can come down equally as quickly; if it goes up slowly, it is more likely to stand at the new level. This must create uncertainty and lack of confidence in the industry, the very thing we are trying to avoid because of its repercussions. Fundamentally this Bill establishes a corporation and gives it the power to recommend alterations to the whole system of wool marketing and handling the Australian wool clip including, of course, an acquisition plan. However, this does not automatically mean that an acquisition plan will be introduced because the decisions of the industry and the Commonwealth and State governments must be considered. 
Despite what the Opposition has been saying over recent months, the Government has been interested in the welfare of this industry. It has taken many steps to find a solution. It is not only paying lip service but is prepared to back its proposals financially. As an example I mention the guarantee of 36c a lb which has cost some $50m. The Government is continuing to put money into wool research and wool promotion, to guarantee funds borrowed for a reserve price and to guarantee loans sustained by the Corporation. It will continue to pay half the rehandling and brokers' administration charges under the price averaging plan while that plan is still in operation. The Government will pay a proportion of the cost of the introduction of the lot building plan. This ls an indication that it is putting its money where its mouth is, unlike the Opposition. 
Looking to the future of the industry in the broad, I believe that it is a bright one. I have had confidence in the wool industry for some time, and believe that the industry can look forward to better times. The first and foremost reason for my confidence is that people throughout the world now are realising that natural fibres, including wool, have ever so many more advantages and are more acceptable than artificial fibres. This is being proved every day and is why we are seeing th; demand there is for wool in many countries throughout the world. There is nothing like lack of confidence to ruin an industry and this is why we have seen extremely low prices. I believe that the Opposition must take a very large amount of responsibility for this situation. The honourable member for Hume.  (Mr Pettit)  has repeatedly referred to the prophets of doom sitting on my right in the Opposition. I believe that the statements that these people have made have created a lack of confidence in the industry. Once the international currency situation settled down confidence in the industry grew. Our present goal must be. stability, for stability in the wool industry will cure many of the evils in other industries. 1 am sure it will have a very favourable effect on some of our other commodities, and in this respect I mention wheat. Fix the price of wool and there is no doubt in my mind that many of the other industries will fall into line. 
In conclusion I want to mention a few other points in relation to the reaction to and the effect of the increase in the price of wool. In the last 12 months we have had plenty of prophets of doom among members of the Opposition. 
What a ridiculous statement! It is a pity I have not a copy of Hansard showing some of the statements that have been made by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson. I cannot remember them all or the dates on which they were made but they are worth studying. Perhaps some of the honourable members who are to follow in this debate would care to make a comment on them because I believe those statements prove where the prophets of doom have come from - the Opposition benches. We have heard also from the self appointed expert from the electorate of Riverina who is always talking of the dangers to this and that industry and certainly creating a lack of confidence. To my mind there are many people who are today adopting a different type of gloom in relation to the industry. They are talking about the threat from man-made fibres running counter to the welfare of the wool industry because we now might be pricing ourselves out of the market. These people rely on 2 comparisons. Firstly, they use the figures of 12 or 18 months ago when the Australian average wool price dropped to 29c a lb. Secondly, they use the wool price that was ruling in 1951. At that time it reached £1 a lb. Reports in the media show odd lots of wool bringing fantastic prices and immediately people start to tie the present prices to the 1951 prices. 
Let me make this comparison. The price ruling in 1951 was £1 a lb or $2 a lb. An examination of the current prices will show that we have a long way to go to reach that figure. Most people in the wool industry would agree that 64s are recognised as a fair average type of clip. In the week ending 6th October this year the average price of 64s on a clean basis was 320c a kilo. One might think that is very close to the earlier prices but it has to be looked at in this way. The earlier prices were based on a lb as against a kilo today. As we all know, 1 lb is less than a half a kilo. Also some people are inclined to overlook, while some cannot even understand, the fact that the present rates are. based on clean wool, so automatically we can deduct about 40 per cent because of that. Finally, there has been a whittling away of the currency over the years. If we analyse all these factors we find that 1 lb of greasy wool today would buy less than 20 per cent of what it would have bought in 1951. 
I mention these figures because there are too many people who are inclined to look at the current price and say: 'Wool was up 15c yesterday'. They do not know what the 15c means. They do not know whether it is on a clean basis or whether it is based on a lb or a kilo or whether it has any relationship to the quality of the wool. Often we see the price of merino wool going up one day while strong wools stay steady. Next day the merino or fine wools stay steady and the cross-bred wools rise. So in the minds of some the price has gone up say 15c each day whereas in actual fact it has gone up only 15c over the 2 days, or whatever the figure might be. I welcome this Bill. I have not spoken on the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill but as it was only a matter of form there is perhaps little that I need say about it. 
My time has just about expired so let me sum up the situation by telling the House of an experience I had recently. This will not be in the form of a story because it represents a factual situation. I was travelling home from Melbourne with my wife on 23rd June - I checked the date in my diary a minute ago - and as it was late in the evening we pulled up to have a meal. We sat down in the restaurant and a little later some gentlemen moved to the table behind us. They recognised me but I did not recognise them. After a while there was a comment made by them, very deliberately so that I could hear it. This happened a couple of times. Finally I turned around and realised that they were a couple of constituents of mine. One gentleman said to me: 'Why don't you fix the price of wool right now?' I said: At what level?' He said: 'At today's level'. This was on 23rd June. In my reply to him I said: T don't think you would be satisfied with today's price'. 'My word I would', he said. T sold my wool today and am very happy with the price'. On 23rd lune, on a clean basis the 64s were averaging 195c a kilo. Last week they were averaging over 300c a kilo. I wonder whether that fellow would still have been satisfied to fix the price at the earlier figure or whether he would like today's figure. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (12.20) - The honourable member for Wimmera, the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr King),  has stated that the Labor Party has not informed the House of its policy on the marketing and handling of wool. I remind the House that on many occasions the Opposition has put forward a very sound policy on this matter. As a matter of fact the Australian Labor Party's policy is consistent with recommendations which have been put forward by the Wool Conference. We believe that within 6 months of these Bills being passed by the House a more detailed plan should be put before the Parliament. I challenge the Government to indicate when it wishes this detailed plan to be presented to this Parliament and then we can see who is sincere about putting policies before the Parliament. 
The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry spoke about the prophets of doom. I remind the House that not only was the Government's rural reconstruction scheme designed to reduce the number of wool growers but in my electorate it actually achieved this aim. There are fewer wool growers in my electorate now than prior to the introduction of some of these rural reconstruction schemes. In an attempt to get on a personal level the honourable member for Wimmera made a statement about trade unionists living in South Australia. I believe the honourable member was corrected on the point he raised with respect to South Australia. I am very proud of my connection with the trade union movement in New South Wales, but admittedly, my duties did extend to other States on occasions. This does not mean that I have never had any experience in the wool industry. As a matter of fact my family has had a long connection with the wool industry in Australia. I have worked on many wool properties and, probably something which the member for Wimmera could not lay claim to, I have also worked in a wool scour. I do not think that this has made me an expert on wool. I have listened to many good authorities and have read a lot about wool since entering this Parliament. I have spent some time studying these Bills before the Parliament today because they are of vital importance to many wool growers in my electorate. I have also studied the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I was in Rome with the Australian delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference when these  2  Bills were introduced into the House. I am very pleased to learn that the Minister reminded the House in his second reading speech of the following: 
When the scheme was introduced in 1971 it was to have operated for 1 year only. In moving the second reading of the Bill last year 1 stated that the deficiency payments scheme should be viewed in the context of a total approach to the urgent problems affecting woolgrowers. Its purpose was to assist in preserving the wool industry's viability and to provide a breathing space so that necessary adjustments in the industry could take place with a minimum of economic and social disruption. 
I clearly remember this statement when it was made in 1971. I felt that it was a commonsense approach to the problem. It seemed to me to be useless to set out to assist wool growers by guaranteeing a reasonable return if it did not enable the growers to survive because of other factors affecting their viability. We all know that besides the price of wool many other factors affect the viability of wool growers. The Minister's statement allowed a full debate on the whole problem facing th: wool grower. The Minister stated: 
The scheme ls to operate on exactly the same lines as in 1971-72. 
The Minister repeated the statement he made last year, lt must be his intention to consider the scheme in the context of a total approach to the problems affecting wool growers. 
Honourable members no doubt will recall that in 1971 when the scheme was introduced protests were, made from both sides of the House about the large number of types of wool that were being excluded from the deficiency payments scheme. However, it ls true to say that there was a much greater protest from growers outside this House, so much so that some adjustment was made in the number of types of wool excluded. No doubt this was a slight gain for growers whose farms were situated in less favourable areas. But it took the spotlight off another injustice which these people had imposed upon them. I refer to the system of obtaining the average price of wool sold during the period, and then adding the percentage difference. This meant that a grower who sold his wool for an average of 20c a lb received a subsidy of 4c a lb and a grower who averaged 40c a lb received a subsidy of 8c a lb - exactly double the subsidy received by those who needed the assistance most. By acquiring only fine wools the Australian Wool Commission has, in effect, been paying a double subsidy to growers of good lines. The marked disparity in prices for these, lines, compared with lower grades, is ample proof of this contention. Many growers in my electorate felt that a fixed price on each pound of wool sold, regardless of price, would be a fairer way of distributing the subsidy. It would certainly help the small grower of less favoured lines. 
Ever since the wool industry began to turn sour in the early 1960s, there have been suggestions of floor prices as a probable or possible solution. The Australian Wool Commission has maintained that its activities have improved the market. However, many woolgrowers claim that since its inception the market has been entirely false and that periodic improvements have not come from the activities of the Australian Wool Commission so much as from the continued agitation for a floor price. Another weakness of the Bill before us is the fact that in many cases subsidies paid to wool growers are held by wool brokers to satisfy debts and therefore are not passed on to the wool grower. This money is not finding its way into country areas at all. It leaves little or no money for the growers to pay shire rates and country business houses which would assist in relieving the very serious problem of unemployment in rural areas. In answer to a question I asked the Minister on this matter, he washed his hands of any responsibility in this regard by saying: 
The Government does not intrude on the private operations of business between woolbrokers the buyers and their clients, but it is intended that the funds should be paid to the actual woolgrower's account. 
In some instances the funds may well be used by woolbrokers to satisfy outstanding indebtedness with the wool growers' brokers. 
In the past the pattern of financing operations in the wool industry has been to a large degree a borrowing of funds for stock purchases from wool brokers on the understanding and subject to a wool lien that the loans would be repaid when the wool proceeds were received by the wool brokers. 
One would expect that the brokers will maintain at least the same level of credit for wool growers in the future as they have in the past. 
All 1 can say is that if the Minister expected the brokers to maintain the same level to the wool growers he was a superoptimist because we all know now that they did not maintain the same level of credit to wool growers as they have done in the past. As a matter of fact wool growers found it nearly impossible to get any credit, even enough to maintain a decent living. Many of them collected this handout from the deficiency payment scheme and left the country areas altogether and have now invested in other more profitable areas and industries. It seems to me that when we have a national government which has the courage to attack the money lenders and the financiers who get rich at a time when people forced to do business with them are facing tragedy and financial hardship this country can say that it is beginning to make some real progress. It is quite clear that there must be some fundamental changes in the Government's thinking about the wool industry's future. It is perhaps true to say that this thinking has begun already, but the urgency of its translation into action seems to have escaped the attention of the Government. I believe that we all can be pleased about the present wool prices. They may well continue for a considerable time, but it would be unwise to base our long term planning on the prospect of continuing increases in prices. We should be looking at other areas for improvement. 
The Minister is trying to convince us that a step has been taken in this direction by the introduction of a Bill to create a wool statutory body known as the Australian Wool Corporation, which is an amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission. We are told that the prime objective of this Bill is to create an efficient and unified organisation so that the interests of the wool industry can be advanced in a businesslike manner. It will permit the integration of research and promotion with the marketing of the clip and thus enable a total and fully co-ordinated approach to be adopted in stimulating the demand for wool. Perhaps this is a step in the right direction, but it must come as a shock to many Australians to know at this stage, after hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent to assist the wool industry, that the trouble was that it was not an efficient and unified organisation. In amalgamating the Wool Board and the Wool Commission into one body we are told that the Government is acting in accordance with the wishes of the industry because the Australian Wool Industry Conference submitted proposals to the Government recommending this action. An examination of the correspondence from- the Wool Industry Conference to the Minister will verify this and also that it was recommended that an acquisition plan be introduced by the authorities into the marketing arrangements for the Australian wool clip, ft went on to say: 
The submission gives effect to a unanimous resolution! of Conference in November 1971 that the formation of such a body with the widest possible powers to co-ordinate and control the marketing of the clip be recommended to the Government. 
I remind the House that this, unanimous decision was reached by the Wool Industry Conference in November 1971 and not at the conference of 16th March 1972. It is reasonable to surmise that- the- Australian Wool industry Conference had given a lot of thought and consideration to the question of the acquisition of the wool clip. We are often told by the Government how it acts in accordance with the wishes of the industry. One would have expected the Government to ask the Wool Industry Conference to submit a more detailed acquisition scheme at this stage, but this was not done. Instead the Conference proposals were handed over to be examined by the Randall Committee. At this stage it is being passed back to the new Wool Corporation to investigate so that it can bring down a detailed plan. At the same time a warning is issued by the Government that the plan needs to be acceptable to the wool industry, the State governments and the Commonwealth Government. There can be no doubt that when the Government wants to dodge its responsibilities on any matter the problem fs shunted over to the States. However on this occasion it appears that the Government is holding up progress as long as it can before it takes this step. 
I appeal on behalf of the wool growers in my electorate for the Government to show some definite action on this matter. We do not want to wait for another 25 years while this matter is shunted from the wool growers to the Wool Industry Conference, to the State governments and back to the Federal Government. We want some action. The Australian Labor Party is saying that this detailed plan should be submitted to this Parliament within 6 months of these Bills passing the House. I ask the Government to put forward some definite date when it expects this detailed plan, which will be in the interests of the wool grower, to be presented to this Parliament. 
I oppose the amendment submitted by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I think the House would have normally accepted the principle of opposing the measures proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. Without a doubt a lot of cloud- 
All right, a lot of poppycock has been introduced into this debate by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Why in the name of fortune must this gentleman continue to try to pull the wool over the eyes of the wool growers? Why does he want to confuse the issue? He has been told time and time again that we have no constitutional powers to introduce an acquisition scheme. Fancy the honourable member for Riverina talking about discrimination. That must be the statement of the week because he would discriminate against anyone. It is obvious from the proposals submitted by the honourable member for Dawson that the Opposition is not prepared to accept this Bill in its present form and that it wants to direct the Corporation to acquire the Australian wool clip. I suggest that the honourable members who desire to support this amendment should look at Clause 38 (1.) (o). There is no need for me to read the clause. It is before the Committee at the present time. 
The clause clearly sets out what can be achieved by the corporation. It is as clear as crystal to most members in this chamber and what is more I am quite convinced that it is clear to the bulk of the deep thinking wool growers throughout Australia. Some months ago we heard quite a lot of talk about how the wool growers of Australia would reject this proposal. I represent a fairly important wool growing area and I have spoken to literally hundreds of wool growers at organisations and meetings. Whilst there was a certain amount of criticism of this proposal in the early stages, I am now quite convinced that the wool industry is prepared to accept the proposition presented by the Government. Therefore I certainly strongly oppose the amendment submitted by the honourable member for Dawson. 
In the absence of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  I feel that I should make a small contribution following the address by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  He gave a lot of detailed figures. I am sure that  anyone who was unaware of the actual position would be very confused by what the honourable member just said. I will not dispute or agree with the figures that he produced. I assure him that I will make sure that the Minister studies the figures and makes absolutely certain that what the honourable member has presented to the House is correct, because figures quoted in the form in which the honourable member has quoted them can be very misleading to the public. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.24 a.m. (Friday). 
 I want to raise a matter that has concerned me greatly in the last 24 hours or so. I refer firstly to the short address given in this chamber last night by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  He raised a very important subject that I know has been worrying him and many of my colleagues on this side of the House, namely, the upgrading of telephone services and the establishment of automatic telephone exchanges. He pointed out the great problems associated with these things and mentioned the importance of retaining first class telephone services. He referred also to the family unit, isolation and a few other things. I think he went on to comment that the way business is moving today even primary producers could be classified as business men because of their activities. What concerned me was the reply by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  It hit me with nothing short of amazement and great concern. 
I might add, for the benefit of the honourable member for Robertson, that it is of great concern to those people who understand the situation. I do not want to appear to be personal because I believe that the Postmaster-General is making a sincere effort to get on top of his portfolio. I appreciate that he has held it for only a short time. I have a lot of respect for his ability, and no doubt we can expect better things from him in the not too distant future. I suggest, however, that he lift his sights a little and broaden his view on the problems in areas outside the capita] cities. He will have to do this shortly, otherwise I do not think he will be able to match some of his great predecessors. 
I pay a great tribute to some of those predecessors such as  Sir Alan  Hulme,  Sir Charles  Davidson and, if honourable members like to think back far enough, Donald Cameron who was a member of the last Labor Government. These men and others have made great contributions. I hope that in a short time we will be able to say the same thing about the present Postmaster-General. However, from what he said last night I am not so sure whether I will be able to follow that point through. This matter concerns not only me but also many of my colleagues on this side of the House, as well as many Australians outside this place. I was very confused indeed by what the Postmaster-General had to say. I do not want to spend a lot of time reiterating what he said and I do not want to take anything he said out of context, but I do think that I should quote some of the things he said. The Postmaster-General said: 
He would appreciate that I have inherited a situation of financial disaster after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party influence in the Australian Post Office. I am now facing a loss of$23m in postal operations, and apparently 1 am obliged to increase telephone charges by some 20 per cent next year. 
I am not too sure what the Postmaster-General meant by that. One minute he was talking about postal operations and the next minute about increasing telephone charges. He went on to say: 
All  it  means is that existing subscribers in many areas have been fleeced- 
He used the word 'fleeced' -  to try to bolster up a very limited capital outlay to satisfy needs. 
I do not think that that is altogether a compliment either to the original PostmasterGeneral or to his Department. Later on, as a result of an interjection by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - it all happened inside about 30 seconds - the 20 per cent increase mentioned by the PostmasterGeneral jumped to 25 per cent. I am not too sure what it all means. An examination of tables 9 and 10 of the 1971 report of the Post Office will reveal that in 1971 the Post Office showed a loss of some $2m in its operations but that in the previous year it showed a profit of $2m; in other words, the 2 amounts balanced out. Of course, that is excluding interest repayments, capital expenditure and that sort of expenditure, which totalled $324m. Some of the honourable members now on the Government side of the chamber were critical of the Post Office, when they were in Opposition, for making what they considered to be unnecessary profits. Their criticisms may have been valid if it were not . for the figures I have given, which show, firstly, a balancing out of profits and losses and, secondly, a large expenditure on interest on capital equipment. The PostmasterGeneral went on to say that he is now facing a loss of $23m on the postal side. I want him to explain what he means by that statement. 
As I have pointed out, he mentioned an obligation to increase telephone charges by 20 per cent next year. Is he serious about that? I would like to know. I am certain that lots of people outside of this chamber also would like to know. The Postmaster-General was also very critical of some of the smaller country exchanges. He referred to some of those in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa. I do not want to quote everything he said on this subject, but I do want to quote a portion of it. I do not think I will be taking his remarks out of context. The Postmaster-General said: 
Is it any wonder that Queensland is in a mess when the previous government tried to operate a policy of obtaining funds for new installations out of the contributions of existing subscribers. 
I want to know what that means and what it has to do with Queensland. The Post Office is not being run by Queensland. The fact that the honourable member for Maranoa comes from Queensland has no bearing on the matter. The Postmaster-General went on to make a few other remarks about the policy of the previous Government. He said: 
It made no contribution of special funds because of the human element involved. 
What does he mean by that? I do not know what he means. I am sure that there are not too many people in this chamber who know what that is supposed to mean. The Post Office's operations hinge largely on the capital invested by the government of the day. If past governments had not made a special contribution towards capital expenditure why is it that there is an interest bill of something like $123m a year? Those are the sorts of things that are worrying lots of people. 
The Postmaster-General also mentioned something about insufficient funds or no funds being made available to complement the 15-mile radius programme that was introduced by the former Postmaster-General. He also said that there could be a delay in the connection of telephones and that some of them might not be connected until 1990, which would be 20 years after the introduction of this policy. It is not my understanding that that was the goal of the then PostmasterGeneral, although I appreciate that he could not commit himself to any specific period. The understanding was always that it would take approximately 10 years to complete. If it is not completed in 10 years, we will certainly be looking very strongly to the present PostmasterGeneral or his successor. If the present Government is not prepared to allocate funds, it could be 1990 before the work is completed. 
Is it fair to say that the present policy on this question is 'no hurry, no priority'? If that is the case with this Government, it is certainly not my policy and it is certainly not the policy of my colleagues on this side of the House. I issue a little warning to the Postmaster-General. If he is not prepared to give sympathetic consideration in this area, I am sure that he will get a lot of pressure from this corner of the House. However, having said that, I hope the Minister can assure us that he will not reduce the allocation or that he will continue to increase it commensurately with increases in costs. I suggest that shortly we will need to deal with effects of a 35-hour week. If the Minister is prepared to continue on these lines I am sure he will receive a lot of consideration from this corner of the House. 
It was not my intention to take part in this debate this afternoon. However, on a second glance through the second reading speech of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  I feel that there are one or two things I would like to say. First and foremost I think I can compliment the Minister for Defence, who represents the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  in this chamber, on some of the moves that have been made in the legislation before us. Before the Minister closes the debate I would like him to give some explanation of the reasons why he has introduced certain measures. I think that most of us would go along with the proposed increase of $50 to $100 in the funeral grant. But I would like the Minister to give some thought to the means test which applies to the funeral benefit. As far as I can see from the experience I have had in this matter one has to be almost destitute before one can make a claim for this benefit. We know from experience that there are many widows who perhaps do not qualify for the funeral benefit as such but who literally have very little left over by the time they cover their expenses. So I think that more attention should be given to the means test so far as the $50 increase is concerned. 
When speaking of means tests, one immediately thinks of the war widow and her pension. All sorts of increases have been granted in recent days under the Social Services Act in general rate pensions, the total and permanent incapacity pension and so forth. But for a long time I have maintained that the poor war widow is the one who is most deserving because she is the person who seems to have to battle pretty solidly. If a war widow is accepted as what we call a full .D ---+, widow she is moderately well situated. But in the case of a husband dying from causes other than those due to war service in many instances the widow suffers great financial hardship. 
The other matter which I would like the Minister to explain concerns what he said in his speech about raising the general rate of war pension to 50 per cent of the adult Commonwealth minimum wage. I have not had a chance to ascertain what the minimum wage is, but I think it is somewhere between $60 and $64 a week. So I take it that the goal of the Government at the present time is to raise the base rate of pension to about $30, which would be about 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The question I ask is:. If this is the case, why in the name of fortune has not the Government increased this pension more in keeping with its ultimate goal? At present the base rate is $14. The legislation before us will increase that rate to $16. I do not know when we are likely to see a further increase. But if we just continue to increase the pension at a rate of $2 a week I am absolutely certain that the present Government will be well and truly out of office before it ever reaches its goal, unless it makes a better effort to bring the figure closer to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. I hope that the Minister can give me some form of explanation. I want to know the reason why the Government has set a goal and then has made very little effort to get near that goal. 
Firstly, 1 take the opportunity of congratulating you,  Mr Deputy Speaker (Mr Duthie),  on reaching the high office you are holding at this moment. It has taken you some 26 or 27 years but, fully appreciating that you are an old resident of the famous Wimmera area in Victoria, I am sure you have a strong fighting spirit and no doubt that is why you are now occupying the Speaker's chair. I would ask you to pass on my congratulations to the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees. I think it is proper, too, that at this stage I should congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on his election to office, an office that has evaded him for so many years as has government evaded his Party. I would agree with you,  Sir, when  you spoke during this debate this afternoon and said that you had heard some outstanding speeches from new members. I would refer to some of the new members on this side of the House particularly my closest colleague, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  A lot of people will hear a lot from him over a lot of years. 1 am sure he will be with us for a long time. I am not decrying - some of the new members on the Government  benches. We have heard some good speeches from them but I would offer a small piece of advice to them. I would suggest that in some instances they keep away from the academic line and address themselves more to the practical side of politics, because it is the practical side of politics which keeps them here. 
 The honourable gentleman seems to be interjecting a lot. He may be one of those honourable members to whom I am referring, but I am not sure. However, we will deal with him at some future time. Most of the older members will agree that it is the aim of most candidates when they stand for election to be elected. Once they get into this place they say that they do not want people to think their election was a fluke so they seek re-election for another term. If re-elected the process continues. They find many inducements to being a member. If a member is in the Government benches he is looking for office; if in Opposition he is seeking some position. Incentive is present. 
I challenge some of the statements that have been made by honourable members opposite not only in this House but also prior to the elections. Members of the Government have claimed that they have been given a mandate to do this and that. True, they have a mandate to govern but as my colleague, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  rightly pointed out they have been given only a narrow mandate. How do they know that all the things for which they fought are what the people want? Members on this side have been fighting for different issues and these could be the things the people want. After all, when we examine the numbers in this chamber there is not a great difference between the Government and the Opposition - a total of some 8 or 9 seats. If honourable members examine the final results of a number of seats occupied by members sitting on the Government benches they will find that those members would not now be occupying those seats if there had been a small swing in the votes. So I do not think it is correct to say that the Government has been given a full mandate to go ahead with all the programs with which it would like to proceed. 1 am sure that if a blunt question were, put to the people: Do you believe in socialism? Do you want to socialise the whole of industry? The answer would be no. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  referred to gimmicks and I am sure he was right on the ball. 
I would suggest to those people who did not have the opportunity of listening to this debate late this afternoon that they take a little time to read the Hansard record of it, particularly the address of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  on the question of revaluation and devaluation. 
The Minister is laughing and is interjecting from outside of his seat. He is laughing at this important matter. There are many answers to this question which many members opposite do not seem to appreciate. If I have time and do not answer too many interjections 1 may try to provide the answers. What is worrying me and what is worrying many people is not the question of the Government doing too little but rather its doing too much, too hurriedly and too indecently in some areas. The Government's actions will have a big effect on the economy and on many people throughout the nation. Various Ministers, including the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  have allocated many millions to various projects, including railways, housing, social security and a host of other things. However, they overlook one factor, namely, that one does not simply spend money and expect to see houses pop up or a new railway line appear. One must take into consideration many factors. It is not merely a case of money. One must have the materials and the right sort of labour - specialist labour. Naturally if one does not have all these things one gets an unbalanced situation. Members opposite seem to have forgotten that the first requirement is to secure a balance. That was the aim of the previous Government and I believe that despite all the problem areas it passed through in recent years it was getting on top. That is why we have seen a big fall in the unemployment figures. 
Outside the chamber this evening I was talking to some people who referred to a television interview which took place tonight. The persons to whom I refer were certainly unbiased politically. They said that there was no race so far as that argument was concerned and that the former Minister for Labour virtually ate the present Minister for Labour. I think that would be a reasonable result because, after all, the former Minister was working on facts whereas the present Minister was trying to argue that because of decisions and actions by the present Government the employment situation has been eased. Do not let us kid ourselves. The employment position will not be eased by a stroke of the pen. nor can it be expected that any action taken will be effective within a matter of a few days. That suggestion is just not on. 
A while ago I was talking about expenditure. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has outlined that the increase in social benefits will cost $126m in a full year. That does not sound much when one says it quickly, but let us consider the position. The Government's policy is to increase the social service benefit every half year. If one projects the figures to the point at which the Government reaches its goal, bearing in mind the proposal to do away with the means test, the cost to the economy will be in the vicinity of an additional $ 1.000m. If that cost is added to the present figure the amount will be almost doubled. Only one group of people will have to answer for this, that is, the taxpayers. I think it will be found that they will tell the Government quite frankly at the next election where they stand on this question. We have almost reached the stage where, in view of what has happened in the last 3 months, taxpayers will be approaching the Government within the next 3 years and asking for a subsidy to help them pay their taxes. That is how silly the position is becoming. If the proposals are not financed in that way, eventually they will have to be paid for through inflation. I can see already a tread towards a rapid increase in inflation. I invite honourable members to consider some of the recent indices which show what has happened in recent weeks. The situation worries me, it worries other members of the Opposition and it worries the people on the streets - many of them. As I have said, at the next election they will certainly let the present Government know their views on the matter. 
I regret to see that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has left the chamber. I thought he would have been here for a while. 1 propose to mention some of the things that have been confusing people. In recent weeks the Minister for Immigration has made an untold number of statements. I am becoming sick of opening my mail and finding another 2 or 3 statements on immigration. They are all so confusing. One minute we hear the Minister talking about Australia reducing the intake of migrants, the next minute we find that the Government does not intend to interfere with the present policy, but then we hear that the Minister proposes that young attractive girls and non-Europeans shall be brought in on certain grounds. Where are we going on this issue? One area in which I can agree with the former right honourable member for Melbourne and the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is in their immigration policy. Unfortunately for the welfare of Australia as a whole, the Labor Party does not appear to agree with the Minister for Services and Property in regard to this matter. I certainly agree with him. 
Our goal is a homogeneous population. It is for the Government to decide what its future policy will be. But, please, will it tell members of the public where they stand. The Government cannot have a quid each way on this issue, yet that is exactly what the Minister for Immigration is trying to do. I do not know what our immigration policy is. Migrants come to me and ask what the position is. They ask whether they can bring someone into Australia, but I do not know. I am sure that many other people outside this place do not know what the position is. The Minister's latest contribution relates to the admission of New Zealand residents, other than the white population. I have no great argument against this, but, believe me, I would like to see a definite policy laid down in this respect. Does this mean that anyone can migrate to New Zealand and then remigrate to Australia? This seems to be a little like the embargo on the export of merino rams. The Australian Labor Party has been saying that it did not want to export merino rams, yet if any other country wants to buy them it can get them out through New Zealand. This has been the case for 30 years. 
That might help. If one were to be on side with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  one might be able to get them out of Australia. I understand that merino rams have been exported from Australia to Ceylon since this Government took office, but not a great deal of mention has been made of this. We know also that it was intended to send some merino rams to Mainland China until some outside force said that this must not be done. 
Because the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is at the table I shall raise a matter that concerns him. Much publicity has been given to the question of a Commonwealth grant to the various States for housing. As a Victorian I am, naturally, looking at this from Victoria's point of view to see how much my State will receive. I understand that the allocation to Victoria was to be $1.5m. There has been some disturbance about this. The Minister for Housing in Victoria has said that he does not like the scheme proposed by the Commonwealth Government. I congratulate him for trying to get an improvement in the conditions attaching to the allocation. I believe that he is standing on very firm ground in taking this attitude. The Victorian Minister has said, quite rightly, that the Government of his State has over-ridden his decision and said that it intends to accept the money. Of course it wants the money, but the Victorian Minister is putting up a fight for certain rights. He wishes to retain the principle that individuals have the right to purchase a home. 
The Commonwealth Government has stipulated that the funds provided to the States shall be for rental housing only. This is the Government's policy. This is true socialism coming out, very slowly and in a limited sort of way. I congratulate the Victorian Minister for Housing on his stand and I hope that he has some success. At the moment I want to be sure that Victoria will still receive the $1.5m, or whatever the figure may be, but certainly I do not want the funds to be earmarked in such a way that they must be used for rental housing only. The effect of this would be to take away any encouragement to a person to have pride in his own premises. It will create as an attitude: Just spend the money, fellow. There is plenty more to come. Do not worry about it. We can get some more. I repeat my congratulations to the Victorian Minister for Housing for the stand he has taken. 
My time is limited and there are many other matters with which I should like to deal. No doubt I shall have plenty of opportunity at some time in the near future to raise those matters. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  made great play of the question of revaluation and devaluation. He, with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  has said what is tantamount to a statement that the revaluation decisions will have no effect. I agree with some parts of the honourable member's statement, but when it comes to the sale of commodities there must be an effect. They should not try to pull the wool over people's eyes by suggesting that revaluation will have no effect. The leader of the Australian Country Party spelt this out very clearly just before the suspension of the sitting and there is no need for me to repeat what he said. One has only to read his remarks in Hansard to see the real story. When it comes to other exports - that is what concerns me - the first statement I saw was that made by the Minister for Primary Industry who said that Australia's revaluation and the United States' devaluation would have no effect on meat prices. I regret that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is not in the chamber because during this debate he said much the same thing. He said the price of meat is higher today, despite the revaluation and devaluation. I think he included also wheat and wool m his remarks. But it is not a matter of the price being increased as a result of our decision or, as has happened in one instance, through lack of a decision, but rather the reason why the prices have increased. I do not have time to go into detail about that, lt is just crazy to think that 2 variations in currency bringing about an effective appreciation of about 18 per cent in the value of the Australian dollar will not affect our imports. The real reason why the price of meat has increased is to be found in the law of supply and demand. That fact cannot be denied. I do not recall the people who now complain about these prices making any comments 2 or 3 years ago at the height of the drought when graziers were disposing of their stock at give-away prices. There was no comment then. Prices today must be viewed in relation to the present situation. But I do agree with the Minister when he says that revaluation will not have an effect on some of our imports. 
I should like the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr Cairns)  to indicate any item he likes which has fallen in price as a result of devaluation. I cannot find any imported goods which have been reduced in price since the alteration of the Australian currency. I wish to cite a matter which was brought to my attention in a letter that I received dated 28th February. I have not the authority to mention the author's name or the name of the company mentioned. Briefly, the facts are that the gentleman concerned had ordered a tractor worth $11,000. He calculated that as a result of currency alterations the price reduction on the tractor should have been $1,980. He approached the agents for the tractor and said: 'Are you going to reduce the price of the tractor?' The interesting point is the answer which he received. The dealer's answer was along these lines: There will be no alteration in price because the tractors which we export today have been reduced in value'. I should like Labor members to analyse that answer closely because this is the effect that these currency movements will have. The point is that those who export are not always engaged in importing. A balance is not necessarily achieved in these matters when one man loses and the other man gains. 
In conclusion, I warn the people of this great nation that we have had it very good for 23 years. Honourable members on the Government side who are trying to interject do not like to hear these facts. In the not too distant future we will see an inflationary spiral in Australia that we have never seen before. It will result from quick decisions, the implications of which have not been thought out. Sooner or later this country will pay for them. But I have sufficient confidence in the people of this great nation to feel sure that, after they have had a little taste of what true socialism means they will wake up to what they have done and they will change the 
Government. It certainly will be time 3 years from now for that change. 
Standing order 142 refers to questions in this chamber. As a result of the change of government and certain alterations to the Standing Orders, honourable members on this side of the House are finding great difficulty in being able to ask sufficient questions. Like many honourable members on this side I have been endeavouring to raise certain issues. I will give an illustration, though this is not unusual; it has happened before. This is the sixth sitting day and I have been rising in my place seeking to ask a question but time has run out and I have not been able to do so. Therefore, I would like to raise that question tonight and I hope that it will be recorded in Hansard and in turn looked at by the Minister concerned who might then be good enough to give me a reply. My question is directed to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and concerns the expenditure of his Department on the upgrading of certain telephone lines in various areas. The question I had intended to ask is this: 
In view of the Postmaster-General's statement to the effect that he was opposed to using departmental revenue for the development of his Department's services, will he take steps to see that sufficient money is made available from funds outside his Department to make sure that the line policy laid down by the previous Government continues and will be completed in a reasonable time. 
I am not asking the Postmaster-General to spell out exactly when this project will be completed because it is never ending. But at least I would like the Postmaster-General to endeavour to make a clear-cut statement on where he expects to get the funds to go ahead with this project. The Postmaster-General has stated clearly that he is opposed to using departmental revenue for the purpose and naturally enough he will either have to get outside money or the work will stop. I want the Postmaster-General to make a very clear statement on this issue so as to enlighten people outside of this House. 
The next matter I wish to raise is my concern as to where we are going in some of our primary industries. I refer in particular to the wheat industry. 
Yes, that is the trouble. As the honourable member for Balaclava has pointed out, unfortunately the Minister is not in this chamber and we cannot direct anything to him. As a result we get a second hand answer from someone who represents the Minister in this chamber but cannot give us a clear cut yes or no to our questions. I cannot understand why the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  decided to give this portfolio to a Minister in the other place. After all, the gentleman concerned is not a man who has a great knowledge of primary industry. Rather, the Prime Minister seems to have selected someone who is lacking in this field. 
The present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Riverina, when his Party was in Opposition made great play about what the Labor Party would do as far as primary industries were concerned if it were in government. The wheat industry is one of those primary industries. He promised us the world. I have vivid recollections of the time when the Minister said that a Labor government would make $500m available for primary producers at an interest rate of 3 per cent. The Prime Minister has been pretty good; he has been flying into all sorts of other decisions. But nothing has happened in relation to this matter. Why did the honourable member for Riverina make this statement? I understand that what he said was backed up by other candidates who were running under the Labor Party flag. But nothing has happened since. 
The Government has taken certain actions on the wheat industry. Some people now are suggesting that the new Government has increased the first advance from $1.10 to $1.20 a bushel. This, of course, is very misleading, because the Minister for Primary Industry has said - and I give him the credit - that the Government would pay a first advance of $1.10 and 10c incentive, which brings the figure up to $1.20. Some people on the Government side today are saying: 'Well we are increasing it and you didn't'. This is fair enough; it is true. The first advance on wheat has been $1.10 with the exception of one year, for 17 years. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation wants the advance increased. The previous Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  rightly told the Federation leaders that just prior to the election it would not be right for him to commit a government in advance. Honourable members opposite are laughing; they do not even know what it means. The previous Minister said: 'My suggestion to you is that if we are returned I will meet the Federation straight after the election if I happen to be the Minister'. Today, of course, the new Minister has taken all this time - since 2nd December until two or three weeks ago - to indicate what the price will be. 
It was correct for the honourable member for Riverina when in opposition to say that we should have an increase of $1.10 for a first advance payment because of certain reasons, which he spelt out, what I want to say this evening is this: If it was good enough for the previous Government to pay $1.10 at a time when Australia had huge supplies of wheat, a lot more than we could sell, and we guaranteed this price as a first advance - now the situation is altogether different. Previously we sold wheat for as low as $1,25 a bushel but we still paid $1.10 as a first advance. Today we are selling wheat at $2.25 a bushel. Bearing this in mind it would seem that the amount of the first advance should be about $2 and not $1.10 plus 10c. 
In conclusion I want to say that I am a little surprised at the Minister making a statement to the effect that he is urging and encouraging wheat growers to grow more wheat. Older honourable members will recall that many years ago growers were urged to grow more wheat in the interests of the economy of Australia. They grew more wheat. Then under a Labor government the growers were told to either burn their wheat or plough it in. 1 do not want to be associated with any instructions from this place that growers grow more wheat. Encourage them, yes; but there is a very big difference between asking them to do it and encouraging them. If the growers want to grow more wheat, let them grow more wheat. 1 appeal to the Minister for Primary Industry, and to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who represents him in this place, to refrain from saying: 'We want you to grow more wheat'. If we looked at the quantity of wheat that is grown in Australia and the quantity that is produced throughout the world and worked out the percentage of export wheat that comes from Australian in comparison with that of other wheat exporting countries we would find that the little bit that we grew is infinitesimal. This country could run out of wheat and yet there would be a world surplus. Honourable members will appreciate what I am saying if they look at the percentages. 1 urge the Minister for Primary Industry and his representatives in this House to make sure that they do not demand that growers grow more wheat. If they act on that line they will be the ones who will be responsible when we possibly see a crash in wheat sales because of over-production. Theirs will be the responsibility if we then have to reduce production. 
I direct a question to the PostmasterGeneral. In view of his statement to the effect that he is opposed to using departmental revenue for the development of his Department's services, will he take steps to see that sufficient money is made available from outside his Department to make sure that the line policy as laid down by the previous Government continues and will be completed in a reasonable time? 
Firstly may I take the opportunity to congratulate the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on his maiden speech this evening, ff he keeps up the standard that he has presented to this House tonight I am sure that he will be keeping up with the standard of the previous members for Mcpherson, namely the Honourable Ceb Barnes and  Sir Arthur  Fadden. After listening to Government speakers I am sure that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  must have been very convincing indeed this afternoon. I would suggest that if anyone had taken a lot of notice of what Government speakers had to say after the right honourable gentleman had spoken they would automatically have thought that the Bill had been introduced by the Leader of the Country Party because so much comment has been made about his speech. Those comments were made on the basis that the people who made them fully realise and are very conscious of the fact that he does know what he is talking about when it comes to redistribution proposals. 
In my 14 years as a member of the House of Representatives, it has always been my impression that a second reading speech introduced by a Minister, can be referred to as a document setting out the details of the Bill being introduced, lt has always been a case in which the statement refers to facts, free of personal opinions and free of party politics, lt now appears as a result of the change of government, second reading speeches by Ministers have changed; changed to include anything that will enhance the prestige of the Government and ridicule the Opposition. This Bill certainly makes changes. It completely disregards the principles as laid down in the original Commonwealth Electoral Act. Since Federation only minor changes have been made, but this Bill completely changes it to such a degree that many country divisions Wi lose their effective voice in this Parliament. In other words, they will be disfranchised. If the Government is sincere in its desire to achieve a true one vote one value, then it should commence to alter the constitution whereby each State shall have equal Senate representation. Earlier this afternoon the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said that it was impossible to do so. This Government has not tried to do it. 
According to the figures as presented b&gt; the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  Tasmania in January 1973 had a voting population of 221,951 people, returning 10 senators, while New South Wales had 2,612,304 people enrolled. It also returned 10 senators. Tasmanian senators in theory represent 22,195 electors per senator, whilst New South Wales senators represent 261,230, more than 10 times as many. I ask the Minister if this is what he refers to as equal voting, ls this one vote one value? Australia is a very large continent and therefore a very large electorate. Two-thirds of our population reside in a very small portion of it geographically. It stands to reason that some electorates must of necessity be larger in area than others, but these people all are entitled to similar privileges. Each elector should have equal rights and be able to meet his member. In turn, each member should have th : right to meet his constituents. Some honourable members opposite on the Government side do not seem to appreciate what distance means. 
Under the proposals in this Bill the bulk of the larger geographical electorates will become larger and the smaller ones will become smaller. The reasons are because, firstly, the 20 per cent variation in quota, either above or below, will be reduced by 10 per cent. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  implied that we would have 20 per cent. Of course there will be 20 per cent if you take 10 per cent below and 10 per cent above. Before that it was 40 per cent. But do not try to confuse the issue. The other instructions given to the redistribution commissioners arising from remoteness, population density and so forth will be removed, according to this Bill, from their considerations. Indeed, this Bill virtually tells the commissioners that all electorates will be as nearly as possible the same numerically. The honourable member for Mcpherson a few minutes ago explained how the number of electors in the electorate of Mcpherson expands. Other electorates throughout the Commonwealth demonstrate a somewhat similar situation. 
Having said that, I turn now to that provision in the Bill which states that when one quarter of the electorate varies beyond the 10 per cent quota, a further redistribution can take place. A study of population movements reveals that it is most likely that a redistribution would be required every two Parliaments and in some States it could be after one Parliament. If one remembers the figures quoted by the honourable member for Mcpherson, a redistribution might be needed every 2 or 3 months if a quarter of the population of an electorate moved to another area in a State. If there is one thing that the Australian people want, it is stabilty, whether it be in politics or anything else. They have a great dislike of continual change. This can be proved by the illustration of past major redistributions which often have been followed by a change in government or a swing against sitting government members. This occurs because of the very factors that I have just mentioned. 
I turn now to the principles governing the number of Federal seats in a State as laid down by the Constitution in accordance with the population of a State. New South Wales at present has 45 members. Victoria has 34. In Queensland there are 18. South Australia has 12. Western Australia has 10 and in Tasmania there are 5. According to its population Tasmania is entitled to only 4 Federal members in the House of Representatives. But the Constitution provides that it must not have fewer than 5. Do Government members from Tasmania agree with this provision? If they do they must of necessity agree that the principles in the new Bill are completely wrong. Tasmania has the privilege of an extra member in the House of Representatives because, I believe, it is a small State and it is isolated. If this principle is good enough to be included in the Constitution why should we not consider isolation in other parts of Australia? If the Northern Territory is ever declared a State will it be entitled to 10 senators and a minimum of 5 members in the House of Representatives, making a total representation of 15? According to the Constitution that would be the correct representation. Today the Northern Territory is represented by one member of this House. 
I think he is too. He is a mighty capable member. I suggest that there is no merit in the argument for one vote one value put forward by the Government. The Minister for Services and Property stated in this House only recently that he appreciates the work load imposed by the larger electorates and that he will consider making extra assistance available to honourable members who represent them. We welcome this proposal. What the people in such electorates want is a member of Parliament, not a substitution for one. 
This brings me to the situation in my own State of Victoria, and in particular the seat of Wimmera. Wimmera had a voting population of 45,574 as at January 1973. It is true that it is a small electorate numerically. There are very few electorates with fewer electors, with the exception of the 5 Tasmanian electorates which average approximately 44,390 electors a seat. There are far more electorates smaller in size than Wimmera is than there are electorates that are larger than Wimmera is. Wimmera has an area of some 12,000 square miles, which is comparatively small compared with some of the larger electorates. 1 wonder how many electorates have an area of less than 1,200 square miles, or if one likes, 12 square miles. Does the Government think very seriously of the work load, apart from the miles travelled, in these large country electorates. Even with modern travelling it takes me 6 hours to get to Canberra and 6 hours to return each week. 
In my electorate I have 24 local municipal councils. I wonder how many the Minister for Services and Property has in his electorate. At least 16 newspapers are printed in the electorate. They all need some contribution from me on the political front. There are far too many schools in the electorate to find out exactly how many there are. The same applies to service clubs. In the view of some members of the Government, these are not important. But again they are too numerous to mention. But they are all entitled to service from their local member if the need arises. 
At present the Victorian quota is running at about 57,600. Wimmera needs approximately another 12,000 to bring it up in accordance with this Bill even to equal the quota. My neighbouring electorates of Mallee, Wannon, Corangamite, Ballaarat and Bendigo are all below a quota. That is bad enough, but if we look at the amendment to section 25 (2) b, dealing with the provision for a further redistribution, I have worse news for the electorate. Most of the electorates that I have just mentioned are fairly static in population. Other electorates are far more static when we consider population growth. So that a redistribution should not take place after each election, those growing electorates would have to be brought down to a maximum of 10 per cent below the quota. In turn static electorates would thus need to be above that quota. We all appreciate that there are insufficient electors to overcome this problem in many country areas. Victorian country areas would need to lose at least 2 electorates. This in turn means a major reshuffle in Victoria. 
I think you are dead right. I think it is the reason. Such a reshuffle, of course, will not worry the present Government one little bit because it realises that all country seats in Victoria are held by th Liberal Party or the Country Party. I only hope that Labor Party voters in country Victoria, as well as in country areas in other States, will remember some of these points when the next election is held, irrespective of what new electorates there may be. 
In the course of various debates in the House, Government members have repeatedly said that the Government has a mandate to do this or that. I ask these honourable members this simple question: How many of you used in your policy the question of redistribution to enlarge country seats? I wonder how many did. No doubt some did in metropolitan areas. But I wonder how many in country electorates did. I saw little advertising by the Australian Labor Party on this aspect. It was all very well for the present Minister to say that he mentioned this matter prior to the election. If that story had any substance, what about the honourable member for Riverina and his promise during the election campaign that if elected the Labor Party would make available $500m at an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum for loan purposes for primary producers. 
I am glad to see that the honourable member for Riverina has come into the chamber. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Wimmera will address the Minister as the Minister for Immigration and not as the honourable member for Riverina. 
Yes. I cannot give the Minister the quote from memory. In answer to the interjection from the Minister I have vivid recollections of seeing the statement in a number of newspapers. My colleague from Murray is seeking to interject. 
It was in the 'Griffith Times' of 20th November. There it is. That is my answer to the interjection of the Minister for Immigration. If the Government introduces this issue I will accept the statement from the Minister for Services and Property that he did have a mandate to introduce this Bill. Working on the assumption that one vote one value was not used during the campaign in country areas, as was the enlarging of country electorates - I am sure that there were very few, if any, used it - I believe it is now up to the Prime Minister to go to the people on this very question. If the Government has not a mandate to introduce this Bill- 
I am glad that the honourable member for Brisbane agrees with me. I would like to see the subject of electoral reform made a major platform in every electorate, not only those which suit the Government. It would be very easy for the Prime Minister to go to the people then address all the electorates around the capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. I would like him to come out into the country areas and to say what he proposes to do. I do not think the Prime Minister is game to try to postpone this issue. He would like to get this Bill through. But I have news for him. He will run into a lot of opposition before this Bill receives the assent of this Parliament. 
The simple fact is that I do not think the people outside of this Parliament will accept the principle that he is putting forward. The Minister for Services and Property said that the Australian Labor Party is the strongest country party in the House. I have never heard such rot. What are the country electorates that are represented by members of the 
Labor Party? With the exception of the seats in Tasmania country seats held by Labor Party members are Kalgoorlie, Grey, Riverina, Macarthur, Eden-Monaro, Darling, Hume, Capricornia, Dawson, Leichhardt and Wide Bay. Most of these electorates have one large industrial complex in them. All but 2 of the 11 seats held by the Labor Party that I have named have been held either by the Liberal Party or the Country Party while I have been a member of this place, and that is only 14 years. I would suggest to the people, and  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would suggest to you, that if this Bill gets the publicity that it deserves outside of this place so that people can know what does go on, no doubt all bar two of these electorates will return to either the Liberal Party or the Country Party at the next election. 
In conclusion I would again challenge the Prime Minister to postpone this Bill until after the election and let the people decide what they want. The major issue in the minds of the Australian people is whether they are to have the right to have a say on this matter. Failing this, in fairness I must oppose the Bill entirely and suggest again to those Government supporters from Tasmania that if they do not want to be accused of being two-faced (hey should also speak up against the Bill. 
I have a minute of my time left. I am glad that the Minister for Immigration has come into the chamber, because there are one or two things that I would like to say to him. 
I apologise, if the Minister has been here all the time. I did not notice the Minister until about halfway through my comments. We heard tonight from the Minister the usual colourful but, can I say without being too unkind, empty speech. Despite all the interjections from this side of the House we could not get the Minister to come down to the real facts of the situation and talk about the effect that this redistribution will have on his own electorate. The Minister talked about democracy and all sorts of things. He was critical of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  He also said something about fertility in his electorate; I think that is right. 
Since the Minister spoke I have had a look at some figures, and I am a little amazed to notice that since 1966 the voting population in the Riverina electorate has increased by 2,824 but the total population has increased by only 461. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was quite right when he said the Minister was hissing against the wind. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to raise one or two points about this Bill which deals with the excise duty on beer produced for non-commercial purposes. I believe that it is a discriminatory Bill, but at the same time it is clear that any alternative legislation would be impracticable. It is rather a strange set-up. In this case we are supporting the principle of discrimination against the majority in favour of the few. I am somewhat perturbed at legislation which encourages the production of alcoholic drinks brewed in other than recognised premises. I am referring, to use the old expression, to home brew. It is a novelty for a man to produce a brew that is acceptable to his friends. He may create some enjoyment in that way. But I am concerned about the long term results. I think immediately of the effect on health. 
Many honourable members will remember that during World War II servicemen who could not secure sufficient alcoholic liquor decided to produce their own. On numerous occasions they had a certain amount of success but on other occasions adverse effects resulted. In many instances people suffered rather badly. I have a vivid recollection of being a patient in a hospital where no fewer than 12 servicemen were admitted after consuming home brew. Unfortunately, 4 other drinkers did not make the hospital as they lost their lives after drinking that home brew. That is why I am showing some concern this evening about encouraging the production of alcoholic liquor outside normal premises. 
On the discriminatory side one immediately thinks about people who purchase their beer from the normal sources. They contribute substantially to revenue by paying about 19c excise on each bottle of beer. As a result the Commonwealth collects in revenue about $400m a year. That is no mean figure. The excise collected on other alcoholic beverages is somewhat small by comparison. The revenue collected from excise on whisky each year is about $4. 6m; brandy $ 10.7m: rum $6. 3m; and gin $3m. Recently the Parliament removed the excise payable on wine. I might well ask why that was done. Do we discriminate in favour of some as against others? The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, referred to that aspect. The Government now in office prides itself on equality. 
Yes, you do. Government supporters are always talking about equality, but on this sort of issue I cannot see that they are motivated by equality. Government supporters pride themselves on representing the worker who has a daily glass of beer at a hotel on his way home from work. 
I do not think there is any need for me to answer that interjection. The Minister has explained my point. If Government supporters represent that type of person I cannot see why the Government is discriminating against him. I could go on at some length on these issues but I simply ask honourable members to note the points I have raised. I believe that there could be great dangers in encouraging the production of home brew through the removal of excise. The Government is saying, in effect: 'Produce it as cheaply as you like, fellows. There is no limit to it.' 
I am reminded of an article I read recently in local newspapers by a writer calling himself 'A Modest Member'. The article was written following inquiries of the writer by some of his friends about the operations of a neighbour in a little building outside his premises. He and his mates decided that they would conduct a raid on what they called Fred's office'. He described the raid as follows: 
But when we forced our way in, we found, not an office, but the most weird and wonderful home brewing outfit ever seen. 
There was an old bath bubbling quietly to itself. There were shelves of assorted bottles,  some  with corks tied down with string, some with heavy weights on top of the seals. There were jars of yeast and tins of sugar wilh ants laying siege. There were mouldy marks on the ceiling where bottles had blown their tops. There were petrol funnels, bits of gauze, there was a bit of almost everything. 
I will say this for Fred, he wasn't mean with us after the dust had settled. When we agreed to sample some of his homework he put on his mask to protect him if a bottle exploded, and  stealthfully  approached a particular batch of bottles. He reverently lifted one down, stood it in a china wash basin and advised us to stand clear. Then he bravely took the top off and managed to catch quite a lot of beer in the basin as it came down. It wasn't long before we had enough in the basin to start. We tasted it. You couldn't really say it was like the bought beer, but it was, well, interesting, and it would make a rabbit fight a bulldog. 
That is one of the reasons why I criticise this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many people are enrolled in each Commonwealth Electoral Division in Victoria. 
How many people are enrolled in each subdivision of those Electoral Divisions. 
How does the present enrolment compare with that of 3 years ago. 
This is one of the few occasions on which I can agree with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  He said that this is not an important piece of legislation so far as changing the whole of the Australian economy is concerned. I agree with the Minister in saying that it is a matter of principle and of doing something for certain people, irrespective of how few they may be. I suppose it would be almost impossible for anyone to find out the exact number of people who would be affected by this legislation. In a nutshell this Bill means that Service pensioners and other means test pensioners such as widowed mothers and the aged parents of deceased exservicemen will be entitled to continue to receive their pensions under the Repatriation Act if they leave Australia. I believe that this is very important because as far as Service pensioners and other eligible pensioners are concerned they are entitled to receive this privilege, if I may express it in that way, irrespective of where they may be residing. 
I wish to explain who are Service pensioners. I am sure many other honourable members in this House have found that there is confusion about the nature of the Service pension. Over a period of time I have had numerous people come to me and start talking about certain types of pensions. They do not realise the difference between the age pension, the Service pension and repatriation pensions. Indeed I have even had people come to me, because I happen to be a member of a Legacy club, and say they wanted a Legacy pension. Of course there is no such thing. I want to point out the difference between the various pensions. A Service pension is granted by the Repatriation Department but it is not on the same basis as a repatriation pension. A repatriation pension is granted to persons who suffer disabilities that have been accepted as due to war service, whereas a service pension, which is similar to the age pension, is granted to ex-service personnel on reaching the age of 60 in lieu of 65, which is the qualifying age for the age pension. That is basically the difference between the 3 different pensions. 
I notice in the second reading speech that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has given consideration to the question of supplementary assistance. I agree entirely with the decision that an individual should lose his eligibility to receive supplementary assistance when he leaves the country; but I note that the legislation provides that an ex-serviceman's wife who remains in the country while her husband leaves will be entitled to this assistance. I also agree with what the Government proposes to do in regard to the question of the returnee - in other words those personnel who have elected to live outside of our country but who think that by returning to Australia for a short period, perhaps a few days, they could qualify for the pension. I agree that a benefit should not be granted in such circumstances. There are many and varied reasons why an ex-serviceman from the Australian forces would want to live overseas; this is a matter for his own personal judgment. But it would not be right for such a person to return to Australia just for the purpose of receiving  a  pension and then to move off again. ; I want to raise a' few other points in relation to this matter. One concerns the transfer of a social security pension to a Service pension, or vice versa. As I said at the outset the costs in this connection are unknown. There are a few other matters to which one could also refer to at this stage. Without wandering from the Bill to any degree I want to draw the attention of the House to that part of the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  where he said he would raise the various rates of these pensions - that is totally and permanently incapacity pensions, Service pensions and the like. The Prime Minister said that the TPI rate would be based on 100 per cent of the minimum wage. This promise has been carried out and I congratulate the Government for doing so. But the Prime Minister also said that the 100 per cent rate pension would be 50 per cent of the minimum wage. At the present time this is not the case. I would like to know why. 
The Prime Minister went on to say that other rates and allowances would be adjusted proportionally. Again this has not yet taken place. I want to know what has happened. I want to know whether the Government will take immediate action, shelve its proposals or just completely forget about them. I want to know these things, just as many other members on this side of the House want to know them. I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who is sitting at the table to place the points just expressed before the Minister concerned because I think it is very important that if a particular party at election time makes a promise and does not fulfil that promise the people have a right to know why the promise has not been fulfilled. 
I plead with the Minister for Defence to suggest to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  that he make a clear cut statement indicating the intentions. I know that Rome was not built in a day. I do not expect that all the legislation containing the promises made by the Government could be introduced overnight. But because we have made a start on matters dealing with repatriation legislation I would like to know why we cannot go a little further. In view of the circumstances that are prevailing in this House at present due to issues that have taken place outside, I conclude my remarks by saying that I support the Bill wholeheartedly. I congratulate the Government on the step ' that it has taken so far and hope that it will be able to continue to fulfil the promises that it made at the last election. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. I am sure it is a simple question and I expect a simple answer. As the Government claims to be a great believer in equality, I ask the Prime Minister whether he believes in the principle of equal telepone charges, including installation charges as well as call charges, similar to the practice of the postal section of the Postmaster-General's Department with respect to postal charges. If he does, will he put these principles into practice as quickly as possible by reminding the Postmaster-General that telephone services are an entitlement of all Australians, not only of those who can claim that such services are an economical proposition? 
I regret that the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  is not present in the chamber tonight. On 11th April last in an adjournment debate he made a series of ill-considered charges about the present industrial dispute in the wool industry and the policy of the previous Government in relation to the wool industry. Since that time I have made numerous inquiries and ascertained that all of the charges were inaccurate, as I intend to prove to the House tonight. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro claimed, firstly, that the present industrial dispute within wool stores followed a deliberately engineered plan by the government to displace men employed in wool stores from their jobs; secondly, that there was no consultation between the Australian Wool Corporation and the Federated Storemen and Packers Union and other people employed in the woo] market on potential marketing changes which would lead to greater marketing efficiencies; thirdly, that wages paid to storemen in wool stores are the lowest within  the  award and that there is a high turnover of labour as a result; and, fourthly, that the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers and Dalgety Australia Ltd, through  Mr William  Vines, dictated wool policy to the Australian Country Party. 
When he came to this House the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had some sort of reputation. He was a member of the Australian Objective Measurement Policy Committee and the Australian Objective Measurement Technical Committee. Both these committees developed the marketing changes he so bitterly attacked.  His  intemperate statements since his arrival make me wonder whether his reputation was based on achievement or personal embellishment. Take the charges the honourable member has made as a member of the 2 objective measurement committees. It would have been apparent to him - he has been often quoted as saying so - that there would be a considerable savings in wool throughput in stores throughout Australia if the findings of the committees were introduced. In his charges that the introduction of objective measurements could lead to possible redundancy the honourable member chose to overlook the fact that next year and the year after only 10 per cent and 30 per cent of the national wool clip would be affected by these changes. As a result few men, if any, will be affected. I am quite sure that any men affected will be found employment elsewhere in the marketing and handling of wool. 
On the grounds of non-consultation with the men in the wool stores, has the honourable member forgotten what he learned when he was a wool research worker - that it has been the men in the wool stores who have been involved in making the Australian objective project measurement succeed and that consequently they have, with the researchers, learned first hand of how the techniques work and are in the course of evolution? Does the honourable member know that the union has been kept fully briefed of the situation regarding the development of these techniques and that on 22nd March union officials, together with broker representatives, went to a Wool Corporation store in Sydney to examine the progress of the Corporation's jumbo bale development? 
On the question of wages, does the honourable member know that there are 5 grades of storemen and that the award levels he quoted are the minimum rates? Does he know that the minimum rates have increased 15 per cent in the past year or so? Does he want to know that the decision which flowed out of the Arbitration Commission placed rates for wool store employees within the medium range paid for comparable labour elsewhere? Does he expect the Commission to place the rates at the upper level of the awards, thereby forcing the wool growers he claims to represent - I will say more about that later if I get an opportunity - to pay more in handling charges? Does he care to know that in wool stores the seasonal nature of handling means overtime payments, which greatly increase the wages he so selectively quoted? Does the honourable member know that 35 per cent of the men employed receive over award payments and that of this number 74 per cent receive award payments of $2 or more while 27 per cent receive over award payments of $5 or more? Does he know the turnover in the industry is nowhere near as great as he has claimed and that, whatever turnover occurs, occurs within that section of the wool store work force which is engaged for seasonal labour? 
I turn now to the personal charges made by the honourable member. They were made, of course, under privilege. He attacked by name a man and his company which gave time generously to lead a massive rescue effort for the wool industry only 2 years ago. I refer to  Mr BDI  Vines, a man well known to honourable members, in whose debt we are permanently placed for the marketing strategies he developed as  chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation. That body prevented wool prices from crashing through the bottom of the market and set the stage for the resurgence of the wool industry. As well,  Mr Vines  led the process of change to improve the efficiency of marketing. The honourable member claimed that  Mr Vines,  his company - Dalgetys - as well as the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers, dictated policy on wool affairs to the Government. Does he remember that the policy was developed of consultation and not confrontation with the industry? That is something that the Labor Party could try if it wants to succeed. The smearing of  Mr Vines  has no basis. Nor has the smearing of  Mr Sandy  Neville, a director of Port Phillip Mills, which the honourable member claimed went bankrupt. Why does not the honourable member find out that Port Phillip Mills has never been bankrupt? It is owned 50/50 by Dalgetys and William Horton and Sons. It is a pity that the honourable member will not get his facts correct. Port Phillip Mills is a viable Australian company which is committed to building the Australian wool industry. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro in his address on 11th April last made certain claims, as I stated earlier. He said: 
The honourable member for Wimmera is quite right in saying that the woolgrowers voted me in. 
That was said in answer to an interjection and illustrates how some people will take remarks out of context. I said that he was voted in by the wool growers by mistake. I want to prove just how they did vote the honourable gentleman in by mistake. In 1966 a Country Party candidate was in the field. Out of formal votes totalling about 41,700 cast on that occasion the Country Party candidate received 3,618. I do not have accurate figures for the last election but my memory is clear on the subject. At the election held on 2nd December last, the 
Country Party candidate came within about 400 or 500 votes of winning the seat. Does that indicate how true my statement is that the honourable member was voted in by mistake and that he did not receive the unanimous support of woolgrowers? It proves the point again that he was misleading this House and the people he represents. I urge people who are interested in the wool industry to read the speech of the honourable member for EdenMonaro reported at page 1354 of Hansard of 11th April 1973. I also urge the honourable member's constituents to read that speech and to read my statement. They will then be able to form their own conclusions about whether I was correct in saying that the honourable member was elected by wool growers to this House by mistake. 
I do not wish to delay the Committee at any length on this occasion because I know that the Minister for Immigration wants to get on with the Bill and with other business. I have risen only to confirm some of the comments that have been made by previous speakers on this side of the House. I refer to the comments on the oath of allegiance and the affirmation of allegiance. I think it is a very retrograde step to remove this important feature of allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  has made the position quite clear as far as my Party and, I think, the other Opposition party is concerned. I am not at all happy with the Minister's reply. I really think that he dodged the issue. He indicated quite a few reasons why this provision should be deleted. I cannot agree with any one of those reasons. Therefore I offer my protest at this stage in relation to this matter. 
I support the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in his appeal to the Minister to reconsider this position. I cannot for the life of me see why we should go to the trouble of deleting something that, even if it is not at all effective so far as authority is concerned, I am quite sure in the minds of the people is a very important issue. Whether this is the first move towards a republic of Australia I am not too sure. I conclude my remarks by saying again that I offer my strongest protest at the removal of that part of the oath of allegiance and the affirmation of allegiance. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the question directed last Thursday by the honourable member for Forrest to the Prime Minister in relation to rural finance, in answer to which the Prime Minister announced that a submission in relation to rural finance had been presented to Cabinet by both the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry. When will the Prime Minister release to this House and to the Australian people the results of the Cabinet's decisions on this all-important subject? 
 I rise to query the latest statement made by the Minister - if he is listening. 
-I challenge that part of his statement in which he said that he would see that equal rights were given to TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd in operating on an intrastate basis. Am I to take it from that statement that it is the intention of the Commonwealth to override State rights on this matter? I am thinking of Victoria, where at present TAA does not operate on an intrastate basis. I ask the Minister to explain that to me. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I refer to those crew members of HMAS 'Sydney' who are desirous of not participating in the exercise as announced by him yesterday. Is he prepared to give the House an assurance that there will be no recriminations against those who wish to opt out of the exercise? Does he agree that if options are given it is a breach of the fundamental obligations of servicemen entered into on recruitment? Finally, is not the Government itself therefore responsible for inciting men to break these service obligations, thereby destroying the effectiveness of the armed forces? 
Like the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  I believe it is an honour to get the opportunity to speak in this place. I have assured the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  that in view of the time I will not take long to make my remarks. I want to draw to the attention of the Minister the important amendment which seeks to omit the word 'thirty' and substitute the word fifty'. For people outside this place who do not understand what is meant by this wording, it means of course that50 per cent of the Commonwealth funds to be made available could be used for houses which may be purchased. There is no doubt at all in the minds of many people in Australia that there is a big demand for low-rental homes, or for that matter even rental homes. 
I believe that we should congratulate the Victorian Minister for Housing who negotiated this issue and was able to achieve an increase from nil homes to be available for purchase to at least 30 per cent of the homes to be built for purchase. The only thing I regret is that the Federal Minister cannot see his way clear to permit a further increase to 50 per cent because I believe that in the long term that is what we want. At the beginning of my speech I said that I would not delay the House for long. I wish I had more time to speak on this matter because there are many points which I would have liked to raise. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in theaffirmative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of taxable income is permissible under the averaging system for primary producers. 
Has the Government considered increasing the permissible taxable income for averaging purposes. 
Is provisional tax based on the annual income or the average income. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When did the national brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign commence. 
What sum has been spent on the campaign by the Commonwealth in each State in each year. 
What sum in the form of compensation, has been paid out to each State in each year. 
What sum has each State contributed in each year. 
In recent times I have been very troubled by the large number of people who are showing concern over inflation- in other words, ever increasing costs. On the latest figures, it is running at something like 13 per cent. The complaints I have received cover a wide range of areas and come from all sorts of people. Farmers are complaining about the cost of machinery, spare parts, freight and fuel as well as the costs to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Housewives are complaining about the cost of the goods they purchase for the home and also about costs to the Postmaster-General's Department The businessman is complaining likewise and he also complains about the cost to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Now country newspaper proprietors have raised the question of postal charges on the distribution of their newspapers. Of course this is completely understandable. 
The Government has frequently referred to inflation and to how it should he curbed. In the last few days we have heard nothing but what the Government is trying to do, without any real success. I want to know how fair dinkum the Government really is. It appears to me, to my Party, to my colleagues on this side of the House and to a large number of people outside this chamber that it is perhaps not quite so fair dinkum. Tonight I want to raise a few issues which I believe will prove my point. I give as an illustration the case of a wage earner. If he earns extra money he loses it in the long term because of inflation. If his income is $100 a week at the present time he pays something like $17.60 a week in income tax. If his salary is increased by 10 per cent due to inflation he will then pay $21 a week tax. In the theory if his costs go up by 1 per cent as a result of inflation he will not receive his .entitlement to an increase of $10 but $6.60. In other words, if one analyses this one will see that for every 10 per cent increase in inflation the Commonwealth Treasury receives an increase of about 4 per cent in both direct and indirect taxes. I submit that every time there is an increase in costs of one per cent it is only fair and proper that the Treasury should consider reducing some form of taxation by at least an equivalent amount. It would still be way out in front. That is one illustration. 
I now want to deal with the PostmasterGeneral's Department because, according to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  these costs will rise tremendously in the not too distant future. I take as an illustration an average newspaper. We know that at the present time the cost of it for postage purposes is lie, rising next year to 3c. The following year it will rise to 7c and in 1976 to 11c. I want to know on what grounds can the Government of the day commit future governments as to the fees they will charge? Irrespective of what the Minister for Services and Property has said this evening, somewhere along the line between now and 1976, irrespective of the causes, there will be a general election. I want to know how the present Government can lay down a charge for an incoming government. 
I want to refer briefly to a few quotations that I have noted from some of the newpapers circulating within my electorate. They give me a pretty clear indication of where they stand on this issue. I have not the time to quote many but I want to quote two that  quickly come to mind. The first appears in the 'Donald Times' of 24 August 1973. It is headed 'A Blast on the Budget'. It says: 
On the effect on country newspapers, in particular, of the postage rise on newspapers,  -Mr Anthony  and others have correctly assessed it as disastrous in many cases. It will indeed mean extinction for some, and hard times for others with the means and determination to hold on. 
I will not quote all of the article, but it goes on: 
The blow of increased prices will fall on country people particularly, rather than on their city colleagues, who can pick up an unposted newspaper at almost any corner. This postal impost makes another mockery of decentralisation, for it will lead to loss of employment in the country, and removal of many to the cities, to battle with the relevant competition. That the Press Associations will lodge strong protests is predictable, but it may be interesting to discover the reaction of the printing industry unions. 
It may also be appropriate to ask whether the Government should take the projected rises to its own Prices Justification Board for examination, not only from the viewpoint of revenue for the Government but also from all aspects of staff performance as already suggested. 
I now turn to another article which is taken from the 'Wimmera Mail-Times' editorial of Monday, 27 August. It is headed 'Planned Elimination'. The leading article reads: 
We are in the hands of a calamitous government. 
What other conclusion can be reached after analysing the latest Budget raid on country people's pockets? . . . Our concern is 3-fold - 
The callous discrimination shown against country people who, if they wish to retain their district newspaper, will be forced to pay exorbitant rates. 
I might add that over the 3 years these rates will increase by more than 700 per cent. The Government talks about curbing inflation and setting examples. The second concern mentioned in the article is as follows: 
The blow against a traditional freedom, expressed through country newspapers which have such a close link with the people they serve. 
The third concern  is: 
The future of small country newspapers. 
The article continues: 
The proprietor of the 'Donald Times' . . . made it quite clear on Friday that the new rates would force small papers to close. 
This tragedy will be repeated in hundreds of Australian country centres. 
Country newspapers have been an integral part of communities since the earliest days of settlement. They have reflected the people's hopes and anxieties; they have given readers a medium of expression and exchange which otherwise would be impossible. 
In one blow, the cruelty of remote government which obviously cares nothing for those outside city perimeters, has threatened the very existence of a time-honoured institution. 
This same government, hell-bent on socialism, is determined to eliminate all small businessmen so that the final bout will be a slugging match between monopoly capital and organised labour. 
To clear the way for this encounter, the small man must go. This is obviously the planners' policy. The small businesses will be sacrificed on the altar of socialistic power by men displaying Stalinist ruthlessness. Independence, the livelihood of thousands of families, and quite a bit of old fashioned rugged freedom will be burnt in the process. 
The article concludes by saying: 'Democracy died last week. R.I.P.' 
Is the Prime Minister in a position to explain to the House why the Australian share market is in complete collapse? Does he associate such falls with new tariff policy, regular revaluation or a general lack of confidence resulting from a policy of socialisation and the killing of incentive? Is the proposal to investigate the establishment of a Government controlled motor manufacturing industry a further indication that private enterprise will be phased out unless we see a change of government in the very new future? 
In a debate such as this it is rather interesting to hear the comments from various speakers particularly on the Government side of the chamber. I was rather amazed a few minutes ago when I heard the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  say - I will try to quote him accurately - that the question of country telephone subscribers not being able to have access to the same number of local subscribers as subscribers in metropolitan areas would not stand up to close examination. I say to the honourable member that he should have a look at the financial statement which has been put out by the Postmaster-General's Department. I want to say something to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  who appears to be about to leave the House. Having criticised the honourable member for Shortland I will just make brief reference to something on the credit side. I want to pay a tribute to the  Deputy  Prime Minister for his response to a request made this morning by my colleague for aid for those people who are suffering from flood damage in northern Victoria at this time. I will not go into much detail because I feel that there has been a little too much adverse publicity given to this problem at the present time but I do want to say to the  Deputy  Prime Minister on behalf of my colleagues and myself: Many thanks for your immediate attention to this all-important matter. 
In reply to my friend the honourable member for Wakefield I point out that there are one or two other issues in the Budget papers on which I should also compliment the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I know as many members in this House know his great interest in the field of repatriation. I am glad to see that he has made some strong moves in this field. However, if I get the opportunity there are a few points I would like to draw his attention to that perhaps may not be quite so favourable as the ones in the Budget. 
Since Federation many Budgets have been introduced into this House. There have been popular budgets and unpopular budgets. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on reaching his goal of introducing the first Labor budget for many years. But judging by the comments of a number of people, not only people in this place but outside it, I wonder whether this might be a case of one budget and only one budget. I hope my remarks are not too severe on him. It might be one of very few Labor budgets. If the future were based entirely on this Budget then I am sure that it would be Labor's one and only budget. But as we all appreciate a government must displace its Treasurer or the people may displace the government We may not get the opportunity to displace the Government as early as many of us would like. However, this Budget will make the files of history, not because of its good features but because of the very reverse. This Budget is certainly a very, very frightening one. The people are frightened. They do not know what is going to happen next. As somebody mentioned a few minutes ago, the Treasurer referred to the fact that Australia was to have a special export levy of one cent on meat. 
We were to have a levy of one cent per lb, on export meat. But what has the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  done less than  2i  weeks after that announcement? The Minister has introduced a Bill to impose a levy of not one cent but of 1.6c. Where is this country going? Who is running the country? It is an old custom that an opposition never amends a Budget because of the financial measures it contains. Where do we now stand as an opposition? One minute the Government says there will be a levy of one cent and then a little later it says it will be 1.6c. I am reminded of the headline I read a few minutes ago in the 'Daily Mirror* of today's date. It read: 'Canberra May Get That Airport.' There is nothing very significant about that until one reads on and sees that the article is from Steve Dunleavy in New York. Who is running the country, New York or Australia? This Government cannot even decide where we are to have an airport. I had better get back to my notes otherwise I will run out of time in this debate. 
 I  could go on and talk about the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  or, to give him his full title, the 
Minister for Immigration, because he jumps side to side, from the back to the front or any way at all over fences. He makes numerous statements and now nobody seems to know what is the present immigration policy of this country. I am reminded of an occasion - and you  Mr Deputy Speaker  will possibly recall it - when we were privileged to be in New Guinea and we were trying to get some news but all we could get was what was being broadcast in the local language. I recall this occasion very clearly. The chap broadcasting the news said: 
The Australian Minister for Immigration, he now visit one of the islands- 
Perhaps it was Singapore or the Philippines -  and him  talkum  plenty. 
I think there are plenty of people who would agree with that. The Minister does talk plenty and no one knows exactly what he means. This Government has been boasting for some time together with many of its supporters on the question of decentralisation but all the moves in this Budget will have a reverse effect. They will kill decentralisation at every turn. There is no need for me to spell out in detail all the moves. The point is that the Government is killing free flow. It is killing free enterprise. No country can expect to decentralise if it kills free enterprise. The whole basis of this Budget appears to me to be one of control from Canberra. If this Government can get that control then of course that will be the stone end of any decentralisation. 
I was interested in a report which appeared in the 'Australian' of today's date. The headlines read: 'Job switch orders for 10,000 public servants'. They further state: 'Cabinet approves major clean-up'. The article states that the Government is only going to transfer these people. What is the good of doing that? When I look at some of the names of the departments which are mentioned I start to wonder. I start to wonder whether this will be another belt to the rural areas. The article states that public servants in the Departments of Defence, Primary Industry, Immigration, Housing, the Taxation Office and Repatriation will be transferred to new jobs. It says that their former work sections will be scaled down or abolished. I wonder what all that means. I do not know what it means. All I know is that the Government is not reducing the numbers so costs will not be reduced. 
What has happened as a result of major decisions that have taken place in recent times? 
I refer to the tariff cuts and the revaluation of our currency. These moves cut right across moves that have been made in recent times in order to try to build up decentralised areas. I was interested to note that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  also criticised the increased rate of excise on fuel. What will this increase do? It will increase the cost of fuel but it will not cut inflation. It will increase costs and ruin anything that assists regional development. The stock exchanges have collapsed. What is more, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  brushed this off yesterday on the grounds that it was a case of the people leaving the stock exchanges because Government bonds were more attractive. How weak can you get? The Treasurer has appealed to people to hang on to their shares. Notwithstanding this the Prime Minister says that Government bonds are more attractive. Of course they would be if the Government is to put up the interest rate. 
Where does the Minister for Immigration stand now? I thought I remembered reading something about large quantities of money being made available to primary producers and home owners at 3 per cent or thereabouts. 
Is that right? I am informed that $500m at 3 per cent was promised. Where has this gone? This morning's newspapers indicate that the rate of interest on housing loans could even reach 11 per cent. What a ridiculous situation we have. I do not have time to quote all of the newspaper reports that I have with me. One is headed: 'Go forward with  Mr Grassby'.  All right, we go forward and up go the interest rates. But what about the poor old primary producers and the huge overdrafts that they have been carrying in recent times? This load is still increasing. As I said before, they have been belted right around the area. Every move that the Government makes should support decentralised industries but we find that just the reverse is true. The honourable member for Robertson a little while ago quoted from some Press cuttings to show how favourably the Press had received the Budget. Let me quote a few. The 'Ararat Advertiser' states: Budget disappointing to country people'. Another states: 'Free enterprise nation will drift to socialism'. Another headline is: 'Budget belts country people'. 
Oh, they are good country newspapers. These are the papers which incidentally are sure to get belted and will have great difficulty in competing with the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 'Planned elimination', says another one. I could go on and quote many more. Another says: 'Blast on the Budget'. Another which appeared in the 'Nhill Free Press' of 23 August - .and this is pretty close to the date of the Budget - is a beauty. The editorial of this paper is headed: 'Budget ballyhoo'. It states: 
Could there be anyone in our rural community who is happy about the Labor Party's Budget which has just been brought down much to the detriment of most country people? Inflation has been an ever increasing problem in our affluent society but the Budget has not aimed to improve this. 
I wish I only had time to quote more of this article because there is plenty of good stuff in it. 
That is right. I have another 10 minutes, but I have a lot more to say too. I want to spend a little time on something which has attracted much comment from both inside and outside this place, that is, the reasons for inflation. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  made, I believe, a very good comment in relation to this matter. But I want to take it from a different angle. Government supporters repeatedly have said that the costs which cause inflation are basically brought about by the prices of foodstuffs, particularly those of the meat industry. I suppose that if one looks at the present day prices of meat and compares them with the record low prices that prevailed, one could say that there has been a substantial increase. I have no argument about that. But people must be fair when they make such comparisons. 
The honourable member for Gippsland has made an appropriate comment in regard to this. I would just like to make a few comments and comparisons. I have a document put out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics entitled 'Seasonally adjusted indicators 1973'. At page 89 of this document we find that in 1963 average male earnings for the March quarter - I will stick to the March quarter because we have to have some guide - were $46.90. In March 1973 this bad gradually increased to $97.50. I would like to refer now to another Bureau of Agricultural Economics document - I do not think that anyone disputes the accuracy of these publications - which contains variations in the price of meat. This document is the statistical handbook of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for 1973. I have taken out a precis of the relevant figures in the document and I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being n'o objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197309126_69_4.jpg"></graphic>

In this schedule I have taken out some averages because if one wants to quote variations in price then one can make any old argument fit a case. I think that the price variation, which is based on Newmarket saleyards prices for lambs, ranges from about 30c away back in 1953 to 28c last year. 
I would not think that there is 3 per cent. One certainly would not get 3 per cent from this Government. There is only one true comparison and that is, as I have said, to make one's calculations over an averaging period. What I have done has been to divide the 3 types of meat - lamb, mutton and beef - into 3 equal averaging periods of 1959 to 1963, 1964 to 1968 and 1969 to 1973. Taking lamb as a basis for the month of August, which is the month just ended, the average between 1959 and 1963 was 18.7c per lb; the average between 1964 and 1968 was 24.7c per lb; and the average between 1969 and 1973, honourable members will be amazed to note, was 23.8c per lb. Therefore the average for the last 5-year period actually dropped. I will say in fairness that for the month crf August this year the price was high. 
In the mutton sector the price for the first averaging period was 9.6c for the second averaging period it was 12.6c; and for the last averaging period it was 14c. If one is looking for a rapid or exaggerated increase all one has to do is to compare the almost record low of 8.9c per lb in 1971 with the price 2 years later where the figure is as high as 30c per lb. But if one averages it over the 3 averaging periods we find that the price has risen from 9.6c to 14c. So it is very easy for people to say that at the present level meat prices are too high; they are only comparing them with what was a record low of a couple of years ago. When it comes to the problem and the answer as far as meat prices are concerned we must consider a few fundamental points that many people overlook. 
Yes, as my colleague has said, such as supply and demand. This is a basic fundamental that one must remember all of the time. We must remember that there is a world shortage at the moment of meat, wheat and rice production. Surely if people in Australia believe that because of these conditions they will get cheaper types of food they will have another think coming. It is only natural that if we belt into the man who is producing these commodities - it does not matter whether he is producing rice, wheat or meat in Australia or any other country - the simple ABC of the thing is that before long there will be nothing for him if he continues to produce that product and he will reduce his production further. This in turn will create a shortage and in the long term we will finish up with a higher price than in the past. There is no doubt that Australia produces the cheapest meat in the world. What is more I think that we are either the top or the second top biggest meat consumer in the world. 
The honourable member for Gippsland says that Australia is the second biggest meat consumer in the world. There is no .doubt that the Australian people are better connoisseurs of meat than the people of any other country. As far as I am concerned, there is no alternative other than to leave the meat industry alone. The meat industry - the grower organisations - do not want any interference. 
They have been going along very happily. They have accepted the high prices as well .as the low prices. The same thing applies to other food producing industries. We hear a lot of people criticising the Australian Country Party and the country people for demanding subsidies for this and that and as soon as there is an increase in a grant, there is a hue and cry from a lot of people. Yet the strange thing is that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has been trying to convince people that there has been an increase in subsidies provided for rural industries. 
At present a very big contribution is made by primary industries to consumers in this country. Let us take as a simple example the wheat industry. At present the international price is about $3.87 a bushel. What does the consumer pay for his flour? Does he pay the equivalent of the international price? 
No, of course he does not; he pays less than half. Australia consumes something like 60 million bushels of wheat a year. Let honourable members work that out. There is an example of a contribution from a very small section of the community to the entire community because most people eat bread or flour of some description. This benefit is indirectly passed on through many other commodities. For instance, wheat provides a cheap feed for stock. So, those people who are so critical of primary industries being subsidised should remember my final . words: The wheat industry at present is contributing a huge amount to the community. 
 In rising to speak in this debate I am reminded of what used to happen a few years ago when many of us in this chamber were in the Army. In the morning we used to get our orders from the authorities that certain things would be done, and then a little later those orders would be changed. There is the old saying: Greatcoats shall be worn; greatcoats shall not be worn. Ground sheets will be carried; ground sheets will not be carried. 
This Bill reminds me of that situation because we were first notified to be prepared to speak on it, I think last Wednesday, then Thursday and then Monday. And here we are. At one moment I thought I was to speak and then at the next moment I thought I was not. However, I am grateful to those who have permitted me to say a few words on this subject. 
The Bill to which I want to refer chiefly is the Repatriation Bill (No. 3) rather than the other Bills that are being debated cognately. There are quite a number of features in the Bill and right at the outset I compliment the Government on some of the moves that it has made which I believe are in the best interests of ex-service personnel generally. But at the same time I believe that there is a certain amount of discrimination in some of the issues. That discrimination should be brought out at this time. 
There has been a substantial increase in the general rate of pension. At the same time some pensioners have had little or no increase. We have had an alteration to the system whereby civilian personnel will now be able to take advantage of the artificial limb factory of the Repatriation Department. I think that this is a very good move. I feel quite sure that this section of the Department is capable of broadening its sphere to include other than ex-service personnel. We have seen an alteration to the means test for certain sections of the community, but I will say a little more about that later on. Medical and hospital treatment for Boer War and 1914-1918 World War veterans and treatment for some cancer victims has been provided. As I said, the Government should be complimented on most of these steps. Nevertheless some of them need some explanation because a lot of people outside are not too familiar with what goes on. 
I commence by having a look at the various rates, because I believe there is a form of discrimination here. It is true that under the previous Government there were certain rates. One classification was called special compensation allowance*. I cannot understand why the present Government is removing this allowance. It is not right for the Government to deny that, because it has given notice to the effect that with the next alteration in pension rates that allowance will be removed. I cannot understand why the Government is not fair dinkum about this. 
Why has it not said straight out that it does not believe in the allowance and that it should be removed? But it is not doing it that way. It is deleting that portion which is equivalent to the general amount of increase in the 100 per cent rate. I think that this is coming in the back door. 
As I say, if the Government wants to remove this allowance it should say so, and if it does not want to remove it it should continue with it. After all, all the other rates have been altered except those for that section of the community which is in receipt of the 75 per cent to 100 per cent pension and the special compensation. That is the only section which will not receive an increase in the pension rate. For instance, the 50 per cent rate goes up $1.50 from $8. The person on the 100 per cent rate who does not qualify for special compensation will receive his normal increase. The intermediate rate goes up $2.25 and the total and permanent incapacity rate goes up $4.50. But there is nothing for this group in between. I say to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  that he ought to do something about this matter. If he is not prepared to give us a clear indication I think it is up to members of the Opposition to pressure the Government until such time as we find out why it is trying to hide the removal of this special allowance. 
If one looks at the various rates one finds that over a long period there has been no alteration in the wife's allowance. Honourable members might think that this is not terribly important, but I think I am right in saying that I heard the present Deputy Prime Minister while in Opposition commenting on this matter of increases in wives' allowances. However, I might be doing him an injustice. But I believe that if it was right for a pensioner's wife to receive X amount of compensation X years ago, she should have some increase today. 
I will deal with the honourable member for Barton because I have a slight correction to make to some of his comments. When we look at the explanatory notes we see that clause 14 deals with the 25 per cent war pension income for Service pension purposes. The honourable member for Barton made reference to this. I do not want to misquote him, but I think I am right in saying that he implied that 25 per cent of the war pension would be disregarded for means test purposes. Am I correct? 
The honourable member for Barton should look at his explanatory notes a little more closely because comments such as the ones he made can be very misleading. The reference is 'for means test purposes for certain types of pensioners' - not all pensioners. I think this is something that we should stress rather strongly. If honourable members look at page 5 of the explanatory notes they will see clearly set out those who will qualify. They will find that those who will qualify are pensioners who are in receipt of a war pension, naturally, and who are also in receipt of a Service pension as distinct from an age pension or a war widow's pension. I think the honourable member for Barton might have the point - or has he? 
I do not think it has sunk in. I thought it might have, but it has not. There is a slight difference between the actual situation and that described by the honourable member for Barton and there are many ex-servicemen who, for their own reasons, elected to apply for an age pension as distinct from a Service pension. 
At present, they have a lot to lose if they are receiving an age pension as distinct from a Service pension. For instance, there would be nothing of benefit to the widows. If ever a section of the community deserves consideration, in my mind it is the war widow. She receives no benefit when it comes to a particular pension in which she may be interested, whether it be an age or widows pension. But, unless she is in receipt of a Service pension - there are very few of these in Australia at present - she will not receive the benefit of this provision. 
The domestic allowance which is included as a war pension may be used as part of the basis for the 25 per cent reduction, but this is not carried through to other areas. So, I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister to explain to me, firstly, why the Government has elected on a 25 per cent reduction figure and why it will not permit other pensioners, such as the ones I have just mentioned, to be included. After all, if this is worthy of a 25 per cent reduction, perhaps it is worthy of a 50 per cent reduction or a 100 per cent reduction. Or is this the first move towards including war pensions for taxation purposes? I should like the Deputy Prime Minister to answer that question. 
Another item which I should like to mention concerns the question of repatriation benefits to members of the regular forces who completed their service after 7 December 1972. The Government has backdated some pensions and benefits - not so much pensions, but certainly benefits - to the Boer War and the 1914-1918 War. Why has 7 December been selected? We know that the Government took office on 2 December but why has it not been back-dated for personnel who had served their term prior to 7 December? That is another question I would like the Minister to answer. 
I turn now to the informing of applicants that their applications for acceptability or for an increase in pension have been refused. I think it is a good move that reasons for the refusal are now to be given. It has been my experience that many ex-service personnel who have their applications rejected by a board are lost when they are sent a form by which they may appeal. These people do not know which way to turn. They have been told that their applications have been rejected but they are then sent a form to submit a further case. They do not know what to do. If they are given an indication of the reasons they have a chance to prepare further evidence. In the introductory note the term 'the reasons for their decisions' is used. What decisions? Are they board decisions, commission decisions, or tribunal decisions? I think that question should be answered before the debate is concluded. 
The move to extend benefits to veterans of the Boer War and World War I is very good and is long overdue. Many honourable members on both sides of the chamber have been pushing for such a benefit for a long time. Paragraph 6 of the introductory note refers to medical and hospital treatment for exservicemen who have served in a theatre of war and are suffering from cancer. Why are the words theatre of war* included? If we are to accept cancer in the broad why should a man be eligible only because of particular war service? I think a little more explanation is required. I turn now to consider the provision of treatment in repatriation hospitals for people other than ex-servicemen. I have no complaint about that as long as vacancies occur in the repatriation hospitals. However, I join the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  who asked earlier whether it is the commencement of the phasing out of true repatriation. As the honourable member said, exservice organisations ought to look at that step very closely. It could be the beginning of repatriation matters being taken over by the social security administration. 
Generally speaking I believe that this repatriation measure is a good one. As I said at the outset, the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  has introduced many good points. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  who represents the Minister for Repatriation, is now at the table. If he cannot answer this afternoon the questions I have put to him I would like them answered in the not too distant future. If at all possible the answers should be made available to the public. I suggest that the answers be included in Hansard. After all, this is the place from which many ex-service organisations and exservice personnel seek their information. Apart from the queries I have raised I join other members of the Opposition in certainly supporting the Bill. 
I think you are quite right. I am sure he does not know. He is very confused about it, and so are we. I think we knew more about the Bill before the Minister introduced it or tried to explain it to the Parliament. He has us completely confused, as he has many people outside this place. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  referred to meat inspectors. What is the intention of the Government? Will this charge cover meat inspectors at a Commonwealth level, or is the Government making any arrangements to include inspectors for home consumption meats? This is a very important point because it is the wish of many sections of the community that we should get these 2 types of inspectors closer together to save costs and various other things. Not a mention of this point was made by the Minister. 
Progress reported. 
After listening to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  trying to answer some of the questions raised by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  I am convinced that I am now more confused than ever I have been since the commencement of this debate. I am sure that many honourable members on this side are equally as confused. Earlier the Minister said that requests had come from the industry. I want to know - because he has not explained it - what requests. Can he explain to me why graziers are sending in protests not by ones and twos but, in some cases, by hundreds? This is the attitude of the industry. I endorse what the honourable member for New England has said about firing questions at the Minister on this subject. I am not sure whether the Minister 'has got tangled up in a personal way with the shirt that he is now wearing and is trying to draw a red herring across the trail, but this seems to be the case. He has spoken about money being allocated for the brucellosis eradication campaign. If, through this measure, we are establishing a fund to be used for the express purpose of the eradication of tuberculosis and other things, will the Minister explain what will happen if, on the one hand, we have a shortage of funds? Does this mean that the campaign will be eased down or retarded? On the other hand, what will happen to surplus funds that are collected as a result of this legislation? 
That is fair enough, but what happens if there is a shortage? Will Consolidated Revenue make up the deficit? The eradication of disease is far more important than some of the matters that have been put by the Minister for Immigration. I should like the Minister to explain some points because, after all, this is an important measure. The honourable member for New England repeatedly has requested information from the Minister, but it has not been forthcoming. If we cannot sort the matter out here how in the name of fortune will graziers be able to sort it out outside this place? 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina - Minister for Immigration) &lt;3.1) - I have given the facts; I have given the assurances; I have given all the information that the Committee needs to make up its mind and on that basis I move that we vote on the measure. 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
I thank the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  for cutting short his remarks to allow me to be associated with the opposition to this Bill. I thank also the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for giving me the opportunity to speak. I am fully conscious that he wishes to reply to some comments that have been made and that as most members realise, the sitting will be suspended at 6.15 p.m. I refer firstly to the following portion of the second reading speech which I find very hard to follow and which I am sure many people outside could not follow: 
The objective of the scheme is to reduce rural costs by effecting a significant degree of equalisation between city and country wholesale prices of such petroleum products. 
That refers to the principle of the legislation but not to the spirit of this particular Bill. This Bill does not cut the price to the consumer but increases it. A little further on the speech states: 
The margin has hitherto been 3.3c per gallon. In the course of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  indicated that the margin will be lifted to Se per gallon with a consequential saving in Government expenditure. 
One can see therefore without further explanation what I mean. The member for Angas quoted figures, which he said he could not substantiate but which no doubt will prove to be very close to being 100 per cent accurate, which showed that the cost of this particular proposal to the nation will be about $50m, or $20m to country people. Some who have referred to this piece of legislation of being of advantage only to the country people are quite wrong because, as the member for Angas has pointed out, this is an indirect cost that must be passed on the consumer in metropolitan areas. 
I want to make only one other point on this costing. I refer to the comments made in the discussion on this Bill and on similar Bills about trying to reduce costs. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  to my way of thinking made a complete fool of himself this afternoon. On the one hand he was trying to protect the Government and on the other hand he was trying to indicate to people outside this place that this legislation would be of great advantage in the long term to country users. How silly can you get, when one considers that as a result of the last Budget excise went up by 5c and that this particular item is to rise from 3.3c to 5c which means that people in areas which are at present gaining some benefit from the margin of 3.3c will naturally face an added cost of 1.7c. That will mean a total increase of 6.7c per gallon for many of the constituents whom the Minister for Immigration represents. He accused me of being in a privileged area and of getting a reduction of 11c or 8c. I assure the Minister that I am not in that privileged position because very few of my constituents can buy petrol at a cut price. The cut price applies in the metropolitan areas, and I wish the Minister would bring himself up to date. 
The final point I want to make concerns the fixed price that has been mentioned. I repeat what I have said on numerous occasions outside this House. We are talking about fixing the price of petrol in Australia. The price is based on the South Australian price fixing arrangement and is carried through to other States; they get their guide from South Australia. The price is set at, say, 50c in the capital cities. Immediately a cut price war begins. This is a fair indication that the Prices Commissioner in South Australia is a long way from accurate when he tries to fix the price. I would like to say a lot more on this particular matter, but in fairness to the Postmaster-General I will resume my seat so that he may close the debate. 
I apologise to the House for rising to speak at such a late hour on a matter which could be classified as a domestic case. However, I am pleased that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is present. I believe in the old principle that one must pay for progress. I believe one of the most urgent issues of the Postmaster-General's Department is the upgrading of telephone services. This is most desirable and I do not wish to put anything in the way of such a development. However, I am a little concerned at some of the things that are going on concerning the upgrading of telephone services. I refer to the manually operated trunk line exchanges that have to dismiss staff because of progress. They are the Maryborough exchange in the Wimmera electorate, the Kerang exchange in the Mallee electorate and the Castlemaine exchange in the Bendigo electorate. 
I am informed by the mayor of one of these cities, telephonists and local newspapers that these telephone exchanges will close next April. As from that date all trunk line services will be directed through the Ballarat and Bendigo exchanges. The Department has offered staff alternative employment in Ballarat and Bendigo but many of the telephonists are married. In Maryborough 5 members of the staff of seven are married and naturally enough they cannot accept a position in Ballarat or Bendigo. I have always had a great admiration for officers of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I appreciate that the girls in this case have been given the opportunity to transfer to another exchange if they so desire. I am concerned that this is one of the few occasions that I, as federal representative, have not been notified of a major operation within the Postmaster-General's Department. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  informs me that he was not notified. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bouchier)  knows nothing about the exercise. I do not know who is at fault. 
I am sure that the Postmaster-General will look into the matter. I wish to know when there have to be alterations and upgradings in the Department. The Department can depend on me to support it in principle. I will show no objection provided that I know that the closure is for the betterment of the area concerned. If I am not informed of action taken by the Postmaster-General's Department I wish to place on notice that I and some of my colleagues will, from time to time, make our presence known to the effect that the Department need not automatically depend on our support. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral will have a look at the situation. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. I refer to a statement attributed to  Mr Des  Foster, the Federal Director of the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters, who said: 
As a result of the Federal Government's decision to increase land line charges many country radio stations will face a financial crisis. 
Can the Postmaster-General inform the House of the exact position? Will there be an increase in land line rates as from 1 October? In the broad, what is the extent of such increases? If this is the case, will the Postmaster-General delay such alterations to a later date and so give those people who arc interested an opportunity to examine the consequences and, in turn, to make representations to the Government on this important issue? 
In case it is thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  is the only person supporting this proposition, I want to say a few words in support of the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. I, too, would like to offer my appreciation to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for his ready acceptance of the Senate's amendment. I am sure that many people throughout Australia will appreciate the Postmaster-General's decision to accept the proposals outlined originally by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I think there is little need for me to indicate that since the first announcement of the Government's intention to accept the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Gippsland many small newspapers have contacted me personally, and no doubt other honourable members who represent country electorates, to express their appreciation. I think it is fairly obvious why they have done so. After all in some of the extreme cases - I emphasise the word extreme' - postal rates were to increase from something like l.Sc to as high as 11c. I repeat that that is what was to happen in extreme cases. But, in the broad, they were to be increased by up to about 7c. The acceptance of this amendment certainly will mean that the proposed postal rate increases will be reduced considerably. While I am on my feet I would like to say that I appreciate the PostmasterGeneral's co-operation with respect to the land line rates as far as radio is concerned.  His  actions have been very much appreciated by people in country areas. I wish to offer my thanks to the Postmaster-General. 
I wish to make a small contribution to the debate on the estimates of the Department of the Treasury. I relate my remarks to divisions 580 and 582 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1). I wish to raise a few points which, I believe, are terribly important. Ever since this Budget session commenced, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on the question of inflation. No doubt exists in my mind that many of the matters raised have been most important. The value of a nation's currency is far more important than anything else. If a nation's currency is valueless or near valueless or is losing its value, irrespective of what may be done on the production line, that nation will not have any success at all. 
It is not my intention in this debate to go into the pros and cons of inflation. We have heard plenty of debate on that topic. Time certainly will not allow me to say a great deal on it other than to remark that the question of price control has been mentioned and, to my mind, it certainly is not the answer to the great problem of halting or even cutting the rate of inflation. In the short term, it is very easy to put forward the argument that this control will check prices. But what follows? The result is a shortage; this is what happens as the result of artificial price fixing. This in turn would be followed by the usual under the counter sales and then general disruption in trading. I say that price control will never work satisfactorily. It is certainly not the answer to this important problem. 
I now turn to the question of income, as Treasury is involved. I immediately refer to taxation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the course of his election campaign said that he would not increase taxation. 
That is right. In theory he acceded to that promise. But in practice he has actually failed miserably to honour it. Revenue derived from taxation this financial year will be ever so much higher than it was last financial year. This increase does not result from any direct rise in taxation which, as he promised, he has avoided or as a result of an increase in the tax paying population. Rather has this increase resulted from a rise in income. There are 2 reasons for this increased income. The first is that many wage and salary rates have been increased. Therefore the rate of taxation as well as the quantity of ' tax collected has risen. Income has increased also as the result of growing returns from higher international prices for many of our exportable goods. I think immediately of wool, wheat and meat. 
On the question of the income of primary producers and taxation thereon, the position is exemplified by the fact that because of recent drought conditions and low returns very little provisional tax is on hand in many instances. This must in turn mean that producers whose income was reasonably high last financial year will find that not only will they be paying a reasonably high tax this financial year but also they will be paying reasonably high provisional tax. In other words, they are paying double the rate for a temporary period. It is as simple as that. But it is not so simple when one has to write out the cheque. I know of a number of people who, by virtue of such conditions, find themselves in a position where they can be paying very close to 100c in the dollar in tax. No doubt if honourable members look around they will find some people who would be paying more than 100c in the dollar tax. I say that this is an angle on which the Prime Minister has greatly deceived the public. 
The honourable member for Gwydir asks whether the Prime Minister did this deliberately. I do not wish to accuse the Prime Minister of doing that deliberately. No doubt he was well aware of the situation when he actually made that promise. 
When primary production and other industries wish to develop their types of industries, it is very difficult for them to expand knowing only too well that as their income rises they are to lose a greater percentage of it in the form of taxation. This factor naturally has a big bearing on our export trade. It is terribly easy, because of inflation and other related matters, to say that the price of meat is too dear. We have heard this claim time and time again. All I say is that if we try to interfere with the price of meat by seeking to reduce it, I am sure that we will finish up with a situation in which we face a shortage of meat. That will mean dearer meat. Naturally it could be much harder to secure. At least today we can secure meat in the quantities that we require. 
I wish to give the Committee an example of costs. If honourable members look at some of the statistical information that is available to them they will find that during the period from 1961 to 1972 the average price rise secured by the producers for food production averaged about 1.5 per cent a year. But the cost to the housewife was an average of about 3.2 per cent a year. During this same period productivity returns to the producer were showing an average increase of about 3.4 per cent, and at the same time average weekly earnings increased by 7.2 per cent. So I say again that it is not the cost of the raw material that increases the cost at the retail level; rather it is the in between area. That is why we always find that it is the purchaser at the retail end who is complaining. 
On the question of taxation rates, it is not right for any one on the Government side to claim that it has not increased taxation because, as I explained before, it has done so. Every time the inflationary rate increases, in theory so does the return to the individual in salary and wages, which in turn puts him into a higher taxation bracket. As I explained in this chamber during the Budget debate, a 10 per cent increase in a person's salary, taking a base salary of $100 increasing to $110 - that is the average male earnings today - means that whilst his costs have- increased 10 per cent, what appears to be an increased return in his salary turns out to be not another $10 but only $6.40. In other words, he is then $3.60 behind. 
People who operate under the averaging scheme have a better chance of cutting back their extra high income in one year and spreading it over those years of low income. This is a matter that concerns me greatly as it concerns many primary producers. However, we have reached a stage when the maximum amount, that is permitted to apply under the averaging scheme has now become a little unrealistic. When I mentioned a figure of $16,000 maximum it is very easy for people to say: 'Well, that is a fair sort of income and anyone in receipt of that amount should pay a high tax'. If it was an annual income of $16,000 I would agree, but in regard to people under the averaging scheme I would disagree. Many people, particularly in the northern parts of Australia where the country is such that incomes vary tremendously, may get a good return every 3 years, every 6 years or it might even run into 10 years. So a $16,000 income spread over 10 years, of course, is not a very high income. I submit that it is time that the Treasurer had a very good look at the suggestion which I am putting forward, that the maximum of $16,000 that applies under the averaging scheme should be increased to a more realistic figure. I am very pleased to see that the Treasurer is taking a note of this. I am sure that he will understand the situation. It has been suggested that we might even lose the averaging system. I believe this would be completely disastrous for primary producers. 
All I want to say in conclusion is that the previous Government increased the maximum average from $8,000 to $16,000. If this Government is sincere about wanting to assist the development of this great nation, a continuation of the averaging system is one very good way of doing so. If the Government does the opposite, as has been suggested, and removes the averaging system entirely, all I can say to the Treasurer is that he should keep his eyes and ears open because otherwise at the next election he will certainly get the result that may be expected from this side of the chamber but not expected by honourable members on the other side. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked theMinister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What quantity of wheat was sold by the Australian Wheat Board for consumption within Australia during the last 5 years. 
What quantity was sold for export during the same period. 
What price does the Board charge for wheat sold for Australian consumption. 
What is the recognised international price at the present time. 
Who stands the loss between that wheat sold for export and that sold for local consumption. 
After listening to some of the statements by the Leader of the House (Mr Daly) I can well ask the simple question: Who is running this country? Or I could put it another way, and ask: Who is running this Parliament? 
Mir KING - It is a good question. This evening I want to refer to some misleading and confusing statements that have been appearing around the track in recent times. I am not throwing any great blame on our Press because I think the Press is able to print only what has been made available to it. Nevertheless, many misleading statements have been made and our friend the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has certainly been well to the fore in this. It makes one wonder whether he has not passed the clock back a little to a period of about the middle of December 1972 when we had a 2-man Cabinet - a 2-man government, if you like - because at present it would appear to me that there are only a couple of people running the country. I do not know what honourable members think about that but it appears to me that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Immigration seem to be having most of the say. Whenever something favourable is about to be announced, of course we read the country Press and see statements made by the Minister for Immigration. I am sorry that he is not in the chamber; I thought he was here when I commenced my speech, but he is not here now. 
I refer to a number of things in regard to this matter. A few weeks ago when the postal rates were adjusted, affecting chiefly country newspapers, the Minister for Immigration was very quick on the draw. He was out contacting his newspapers and telling them what a wonderful job he had been doing and how he had spoken to the Prime Minister. I submit that on this occasion the first the Minister for Immigration knew about the alteration in postal rates affecting country newspapers was when the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  presented the case in this place. Yet the Minister for Immigration was very quick to rush around and suggest that he had been doing a wonderful thing for the country newspapers. The honourable member for Gippsland spoke on behalf of the Opposition and was successful on that account. We all realise that the one-eyed Minister for Immigration must be pretty quick on the draw to get the publicity that he requires. 
The other point I would like to raise relates to the meat industry. Where are we going in regard to this industry? What is the policy of the Government towards the meat industry today? There has been a lot of talk about this but nothing definite has been said - nothing that can be confirmed. If people wanted to know all about the Government policy in this regard, the first thing they would say is: 'Let us have a look at the report on the stabilisation of meat prices made by the Joint Committee on Prices'. That should give one a fair clue. 
But when one starts to look at this report one starts to wonder about it. I should just like to quote a couple of points from the report. Its first recommendation is: 
As the principal means of stabilising domestic meal prices, steps be taken to introduce a special flexible tax on beef exports . . . 
That is fair enough. The report went on to make some other recommendations about putting voluntary restrictions on beef exports and the like, Fortunately, there were some Opposition members on that Committee including, again, the honourable member for Gippsland and, I think, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  I cannot remember who the others were but it was fortunate that we had those 2 Opposition members on the committee because they presented a minority report. They virtually took a reverse position to a flexible tax and the imposition of quotas. Both of these recommendations were rejected by the minority and, of course, in the long and short of it the meat industry has accepted that. 
When one looks around and sees the other statements that appear one wonders just where we are going. An article which appeared in this morning's 'Canberra Times' under the heading 'Barnard gets his facts wrong', stated: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  had another- 
I emphasise 'another' -  disastrous encounter with the Press yesterday, which resulted in a ministerial Press secretary publicly ridiculing him. 
This is a pretty serious state of affairs. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  should not have raised this matter with the other matter that he spoke about concerning privilege. I do not have the time to quote all of the article. However, it went on to say: 

 Mr Barnard was made aware of his mistake shortly after the Press left his office yesterday, and recalled journalists to hear the proper version. 
But the situation was left in such a position that the Press secretary to the Minister for Primary Industry  Senator Wriedt,  felt obliged to put the following note on the Press Gallery notice board: 
This matter was raised at question time this morning, but it is worth repeating - 
Meat tax. Are you confused? 
Of course we are. We always are. The statement continued: 
The reliable source of information is Ken Wriedt's Press Statement. Tom Connors'. 
Who is running this country? Today's Melbourne 'Age' carries a story under the heading 'Caucus rejectsbeef quota'. It states: 
Canberra - The Labor Caucus yesterday easily over-ruled a Cabinet decision to place quotas on beef exports to the United States. 
T he Caucus 'rural rump'- 
I am not too sure what is meant by 'rural rump'. 
I am reminded that it is Grassby's gang. The article stated: 
The Caucus 'rural rump', headed by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  overwhelmingly defeated Cabinet's recommendation agreed to earlier this week. 
Further on the article stated: 
On Monday  Senator Wriedt  recommended to Cabinet to reject proposals by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices to impose the tax and quotas. 
Cabinet rejected the tax proposal but endorsed the quota controls, pending ratification by the Caucus. 
Again I ask: Who is running the country - the Caucus, the rural rump, Cabinet, this 2- man committee which I mentioned before, or you,  Mr Speaker?  Sometimes,  Sir, I  think that you have a fair amount of authority. The article in the 'Age' went on to state: 

 Mr Grassby and other rural members are believed to have strongly supported  Senator Wriedt. 
I start to wonder when I look at all of these statements. I want to refer to a Press statement issued by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  However I do not have time to quote it. I seek leave from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, to incorporate this statement in Hansard. The statement is a page and a half in length. 
It is a Press statement by the Minister for Primary Industry. I want to quote one section of it. After saying that the Caucus or the Cabinet or the rural rump - I am not too sure which - was going to withdraw the tax, he went on to say- 
The Minister says that he wants to look at it and I want to quote from it. 
Let me quote this passage: 
Action on another Committee recommendation - voluntary export controls by industry would be held in abeyance for the time being. 
The Minister has refused leave to have the statement incorporated in Hansard. I have now finished quoting from it. Perhaps the Minister would have a look at the material which I seek leave to incorporate. I will hand it to him. I have only a minute left in which to speak. There are many things that one could talk about. The 'Daily Telegraph' of Thursday, 1 1 October carried an article headed'Graziers' Ally in Tax Fight'. The article stated: 
Two of Australia's top grazier groups this week applauded the Minister for Primary Industry's successful opposition to a proposed meat export tax. 
This article, of course, did not mention the Minister for Immigration. It stated: 
The Australian Cattle Council and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council both praised  Senator Wriedt. 
Then comes the real headline, in my book, as far as the industry is concerned. The article goes on to say that the AWGC economist made the statement. 
An economist above all things. 
I come back to where I started. Who is running this country? Who is controlling primary industry - the Minister for Immigration, the Minister for Primary Industry, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, the Caucus, the rural rump, or even you,  Mr Speaker?  It is about time that the Prime Minister really put his foot down and told the Australian people exactly where we are going. Talking about credit - I will conclude on this point - the Minister for Immigration has been very vocal on this subject. He has been accepting the credit, not denying it. 
The Minister for Immigration informs me that he has no objection. 
I was amazed to hear the way in which the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  spoke. It is obvious that he has little interest in commercial radio stations. There are a number of issues which the Country Party would like to put forward in answer to the honourable member for Franklin. I refer to the rates to which the honourable member referred a few moments ago. He spoke about the licence fee increasing from $50 to $200. He made no reference to the other costs that have been mentioned in this Bill. I refer to the percentage of gross earnings from the returns on advertising because, after all, this is the important issue. I congratulate my colleague, the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  because I believe that in the short time available to him he did an excellent job in pointing out to the Government the anomalies that are being introduced in this Bill. Let us examine the proposed rates which will apply when this Bill is passed - I repeat the words 'proposed rates' because, after all, the Bill has not been passed yet. It still has to go through the Senate and we do not know what will happen there - no one knows. It is up to them to decide. These rates are backdated to 22 August 1973 as was stated in the last paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
The Bill proposes that the new scale of fees will operate from 22 August 1973 and therefore the licence fees in respect of the renewal of licences falling due after that date will be assessed on the new scale of fees. 

 Mr Chairman, you will excuse me for making this comparison, but is the position in regard to these fees to be similar to that when the Post Office issued accounts to holders of postal boxes? Those people paid their fees in advance for the period which expires in March next year. Now a second bill has been sent out to them and unless they pay an extra 75c for the small box, $2, I think, for the next size and I have forgotten the extra amount for the third size, their boxes will be taken away from them. Is this the same situation? When it comes to comparative rates - this appeared to be in the mind of the honourable member for Franklin - this is a simple matter. He said that it does not mean very much and that not much revenue will be gained. For those stations in receipt of $500,000 plus from advertising, the existing rate is one per cent but the proposed increase is to  H  per cent. Only a 50 per cent increase, that is all! For those in receipt of Sim plus the charge remains at 2 per cent. There is no change at all. I cannot see the reason why one group has to pay an extra 50 per cent while the other does not pay any increase at all. 
Let us go a little further. The rate for those in receipt of $1.5m plus increases from 2 per cent to  2i  per cent. This is another discriminatory figure because that is a 25 per cent rise. For those in receipt of $2m plus there is no change. Those in receipt of $2.5m plus will have their rates increased from 3 per cent to 3.5 per cent. In round figures that is a 17 per cent rise. There is no uniformity at all. For those in receipt of $3m plus the rate is increased from 3 per cent to 4 per cent, a 33 per cent rise. The rate for those in receipt of $3. 5m plus is increased from 3 per cent to 4i per cent, a 50 per cent rise. There is no rhythm in this pattern at all. For the lowest group earning $500,000 plus and for those earning $3.5m plus there is a 50 per cent increase but in respect of some groups in between there is no change at all. I would certainly like the Minister to give the House some explanation of this. For those in receipt of $4m plus the rate increases from 4 per cent to 4.5 per cent, a 12.5 per cent rise. 
There is no doubt in my mind that this Bill is similar to a lot of other Budget Bills that have been introduced into this House. They are hell bent on killing or hampering any kind of success. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  interjected a little while ago, they are hell bent on interfering with success. The Government's attitude seems to be: 'If anybody is making a little progress let us stop him straightaway'. That appears to be the whole policy of the Government. When I look at the other legislation being introduced there is no doubt in my mind that this is the Government's aim. In a debate in this House a little over an hour ago we heard the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  belting into another successful issue. The honourable member for Cowper this evening referred to land line charges. My friend from Tasmania did not make any reference to this. He accused the honourable member for Cowper of talking about telephones but the land line charges are one of the things which will affect many radio stations. Maybe these stations are in country areas and maybe they are in electorates held by Australian Country Party members but that is no reason why we should sit down and say nothing about these increases. 
When we talk of radio stations in the outback I immediately think of the radio station at Alice Springs. As a result of decisions made by this Government - I have checked these figures through the 'Department and can confirm them - there will be an increase of about 5,000 per cent on some of the land line charges to the radio station at Alice Springs. Where does the honourable member for Franklin come in now. He is silent. He forgets that some of the stations will be adversely affected. A little while ago he made reference to the big percentage of stations showing a profit. I am not concerned about the ones showing a profit. I am concerned about the ones on the border line and the ones which are likely to show a loss as a result of this legislation and decisions being made by this Government. This is why the Country Party and Opposition members generally are so hostile to some of the measures that are being introduced in this House. It is the reason why I want to support the line taken earlier this evening by my colleague, the honourable member for Cowper. I am terribly disappointed in the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for trying to avoid giving the Opposition an opportunity of speaking- 
I was not referring to the Committee stage. 
I was referring to the decision of the Leader of the House yesterday in refusing to allow honourable members on this side of the House to voice their opinions on this Bill. 
I will change my tactics by saying that I am grateful to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  who is at the table and is responsible for this Bill for the opportunity given to some members of the Opposition to speak in the Committee stage of the Bill. 
If people cannot see through what I am trying to say-- 
Well, I am sorry that I cannot compliment the Minister. However, I see that my time has expired and I conclude by saying that if I cannot compliment the Minister I will certainly compliment the honourable member for Cowper. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
How many telephone exchanges classified as country automatic are there in each State. 
How many were installed in each State under the conditions introduced by the previous PostmasterGeneral which provided for a15-mile free line construction scheme. 
It was not my intention to speak in the debate on the Estimates tonight. But I feel obliged after some of the things I have heard since the debate on the Estimates recommenced late this afternoon, to make one or two comments. Many misleading statements have been made in the chamber, particularly this evening. As the proceedings are being broadcast I feel quite sure that there are a lot of people listening in who would have gained a completely wrong impression of the actual situation. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Olley)  was one of the early speakers in the debate. He quoted from a number of statements made in Canberra yesterday which appeared in the newspapers this morning and which were attributed to the  President  of the Australian Farmers Federation. 
It is all very well to make a comment on one side of a story, but I think that honourable members should get their facts correct. The  President  of that organisation, a  Mr Hogan,  corrected the statement late this morning. He was very perturbed about it. I think that it is only right and proper that what he said should be quoted. After all, people do get the wrong impression.  Mr Hogan  said that one report had confused the question of relations between the Country Party and the farmer organisations. He had tried to make it clear that the Press had often fooled the public by creating an image of the Country Party as a hand-out party for farmers. I hope the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is listening because, after all, he tried to make some capital out of this also. In fact,  Mr Hogan  said, many good ideas had been placed before the Government by farm groups and had undoubtedly been supported by the Country Party.  Mr Hogan  went on in his statement to say that the support on such occasions of the Country Party and other parties had always been appreciated. I think all honourable members appreciate the fact that he was referring to the Liberal Party. He said that the Australian Farmers Federation, in common with other national organisations, naturally looked for their support in matters of mutual interest. 
Members of the Government and Government supporters who tried this morning to make some capital out of this statement ought to be corrected. To use the old expression, they ought to be ashamed of themselves for making the statements they did make. 
Some of the contributions this evening from Government supporters in defence of actions of this Government in relation to trade and primary industries were some of the weakest I have heard since I came into this place 15 years ago. They all adopted the line of excuse, excuse, excuse, while some tried to indicate how well primary industries are situated today and how the Labor Government has helped them. Anyone at all would fully appreciate that any success that primary producers are having in the year 1973 is not due to the Federal Government. I think it is in spite of the Federal Government. 
What I said is true. It is in spite of the Government. We are having one of the best seasons in Australia, and over Australia, for many long years. As far as prices are concerned, basically they are all based on international rates and have nothing to do with what is taking place within Australia. Look at the price of meat. It is an all time record, and an all time record as far as exports are concerned. This is not attributable to the Government. It has nothing to do with the Government. It is the primary producers who are making this possible. The prices being received again have nothing to do with the Government. This is a case of the importers, the United States of America, Japan and other countries wanting to buy our goods and wanting to buy our meat. The same thing applies to the price of wheat. 
Yes, I will come to China in a minute. In wheat there is an all time record as far as Australia is concerned and an all time record as far as the world is concerned. The Minister for Immigration referred to sales to China. What about sales to China? Let us look at this question and see what the facts are. Be fair about this matter instead of playing politics. The Minister for Immigration is smiling. He virtually says that his Government made the sales to China. What is the position? What was the position in the last 10 years while the Labor Party was in Opposition? The Australian Wheat Board - I am glad to see that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is present because he had a very important part in this - was responsible for selling over $ 1,000m worth of wheat to China. Now, what about that one? It sold over $ 1,000m worth. 
All right, we did lose the market, but why did we lose the market. This is where the academics do not understand the situation. They simply do not realise that there are different wheat qualities. China today produces the type of wheat that is produced in large quantities in Australia and when the 
Chinese have a glut of this type they do not want our varieties. When they have a shortage of hard wheat varieties they do not look to Australia for the simple reason that we literally have only a handful of hard wheat varieties for sale from the northern part of Australia. Therefore the Chinese look to the United States and to Canada. That is the issue that this Government is not prepared to talk about. Even last year when the present Opposition Parties were in Government the Australian Wheat Board came to an arrangement with the Chinese to sell, from memory, some 70 million bushels of wheat. The only problem was that we did not have it to sell. 
Some Government supporters are laughing about this. This raises a question so often raised by the Minister for Immigration. Why has the Minister been carrying on as he has been in the last few weeks? He has repeatedly told us that he is against quotas. Is that right? 
How can he genuinely support a government that believes in the principle of quotas? 
That is a very good interjection. 
If it is not State quotas then why is the Minister for Immigration so vocal about this? Why is it that the Commonwealth is prepared to put into legislation that this is a quota year? I wonder why. The Minister for Immigration knows very little about this question. He is more concerned about going back into his electorate and talking about what his Party will do for the people, what it has tried to do and all this sort of claptrap. This matter has been raised in this House on many occasions but the Minister has not been prepared to get up and flatly deny the question. I think that this morning the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  again asked what this Government is doing to assist primary producers. What about this question of interest rates and long term loans at low interest rates? It is true that the Minister for Immigration did not say: 'The Government will give it to you', but his statements were so worded that every grower looked at them and said: 'Yes, that is what the Minister means' or 'That is what the honourable member for Riverina means.' He was not a Minister at that time. The Minister is not prepared to turn round and completely deny it. 
The Minister referred to some of the results achieved by the present Government. I wonder what such a statement is all about when I start to add up the increased taxation facing primary producers. My advisers tell me that the increased rates for primary producers will mean that about an extra $250m will be collected in tax this year. That is a mighty lot of money. If that sum is spread over every farm in round figures it is near enough to $1,000 extra per farm. And what about the interest rates? I have not got time to explain all this in detail but on average, as a result of the increased interest rates introduced by this Government, each farm will pay about $300 more per year. This is the low rate of interest that the Minister for Immigration promised us. 
Yes, this 3 per cent. What did the Government do? The Minister was talking about giving us - 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
It always seems to be my lot to follow the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  Over recent months I have found myself in great disagreement with what he has had to say. I have endeavoured to correct him and advise him. He has often informed the House that he has been an adviser. But tonight I find myself in a rather different situation. I find that I cannot altogether disagree with him. I would like to make the brief comment that I believe his contribution, on an academic line, was no doubt quite a good one. However, I think - and I want to say this as kindly as I possibly can - that his services are wasted in this place. I feel quite sure that he could forward his knowledge better in the field in which he worked before he entered this place because I believe that many wheat growers would not altogether appreciate what he had to say this evening. 
As to the honourable member's comments in relation to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation laying down conditions for the contribution of funds, he is only partly right. It is true that the Federation was somewhat divided as to whether it should, firstly, enter the field by making additional funds available and, secondly, enter the actual properties in order to make an investigation. But I want to tell the honourable member for EdenMonaro that in the broad there was overwhelming support for the contributions. I am informed by a very reliable source that 90 per cent of the members of the Federation supported this principle. If I have sufficient time in this debate I will make a few more comments about this later on. 
Broadly speaking, the Wheat Tax Bill seeks to amend the Wheat Tax Act by extending on the one hand the date of operation and on the other hand the amount to be deducted from the various wheat growers. The original Act which commenced in 1957 fixed a rate of a quarter of a penny - a farthing for those who do not recall the old currency - per bushel of wheat delivered. The second Act altered the rate to three-tenths of a penny and that was to operate from 1 October 1965. Today we are discussing a further alteration to increase the amount to 15c per tonne, or approximately half a cent per bushel, which is an increase of about 20 per cent. However, the Bill makes provision for a figure lower than the 15c, namely 11c, but that rate can be increased to 15c after discussion between the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I have no criticism of those proposals. Research into any industry is, of course, of the utmost importance and with ever increasing costs it is inevitable that the contribution be increased. In the case of wheat the increase is effected by the industry or the Government or both. This Bill, of course, makes provision for the Commonwealth to match the grower contributions, so in turn it is near enough to a fiftyfifty affair. I think this is acceptable to both parties. 
Wheat research can cover a very wide range and it just as well that it does so. If success is to be achieved in this industry there are many .fields which must be looked at very closely. Apart from seasonal conditions which vary from year to year there are other issues that are important. They include: Soil fertility - to which I think the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  made reference; the types of wheat to be grown in certain areas; the quality of the wheat to be produced - this is important; combating the various diseases that appear from time to time; continuous plant breeding programs in the various States to combat the changing conditions. These programs include propagation of the various legumes used to build up soil fertility. All these are aspects of the growing side of the industry. They are but a few of the matters that are covered by the introduction of this Bill. 
After wheat is grown it has to be stored. At one minute we see a world glut of wheat and the next we see a world shortage. Many people believe that wheat can be stored indefinitely. This is partly true but the cost is very high. Wheat can be kept indefinitely if one is prepared to pay and to look after it. I do not refer only to the cost of storage. I also refer to the problem of vermin infestation which again was mentioned by the honourable member for Corangamite. This is where the costs are extremely high. In addition to this cost there naturally is a downgrading of the quality of the wheat and the losses that invariably occur in any event. So there are a a number of cost factors and it is not true to say that one can store wheat indefinitely at very low cost. I have estimated that the real cost of storing a bushel of wheat over a 12-month period is approximately '20c per bushel. This varies according to conditions, naturally. 
So when one reads and hears some of the comments of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  I wonder just how little he knows about such problems. He has plenty of talk but he tells us nothing. In recent days he has harped on the question of wheat restrictions and how he was opposed to them. Yet under this legislation we find the Government in principle supporting them. I do not know why the honourable member continues to support the Government. He forgets about the cost of storing grain which can, as I said, be anything up to 20c per bushel. To me it is strange that the Minister for Primary Industry in another place has not spoken out against quotas. I wonder why. There seems to be a little difference of opinion. I would be very interested to hear comment perhaps later this evening from the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  When I said there seems to be a little difference of opinion I was not referring to you,  Mr Speaker,  on this occasion. We do appreciate that you have a great knowledge of this industry. Sometimes I wonder whether the Minister for Immigration has even heard of the word weevil', quite apart from having seen one or knowing what it does. I can inform him that it certainly is playing havoc with the wheat industry. This insect is building up a resistance, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Corangamite, to various insecticides, including malathion. This is a major field of research into which we are entering and it is a very important one. Any falling off in research certainly could spell disaster for the wheat industry. 
Time will not permit me in this debate to explain in detail all the various problems of the industry. I have not mentioned the great threat hovering over the industry right now, particularly in the State of South Australia. I refer to the problem of rust caused by excessive heat and moisture at the same time. This alone could mean huge losses running into millions of dollars for the wheat industry. There is no doubt that this is another important angle in the research program. I do not have time to cover the costs of training personnel to carry out the various research programs. I think of student training. I think of the wheat research centres in the various States, including the one that was established more recently in the heart of Wimmera, namely, at Horsham. 
Perhaps it is worthwhile covering some of the various expenditures that were recommended firstly by the Wheat Industry Research Council and adopted by the previous Government. They total some $800,000. I mention the amount $193,000 for the Commonwealth 
Scientific and 'Industrial Research Organisation; $84,000 for the Department of Agriculture in Victoria; $83,000 for the University of Adelaide; $71,000 for the University of Western Australia; $68,000 for the University of Sydney; $58,000 for the Department of Primary Industry in Queensland; $57,000 for the Department of Agriculture in New South Wales; $48,000 for the Department of Agriculture in Western Australia; $25,000 for the Department of Agriculture in South Australia; and $38,000 for the University of New England in New South Wales. They are but a few of the areas of expenditure. But that expenditure does not cover the areas of the various wheat industry research committees, which are different bodies altogether. 
One of the big problems facing the various research areas is the uncertainty of money available. It varies according to the amount of money contributed by the Government on the one hand and the wheat growers on the other. We, as a Parliament, can set the contribution, based on a bushel or, to use the new formula, tonne delivered. But the deliveries vary from year to year, based mainly on seasonal conditions. A comparison of the deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board between the year 1968-69 and last year will reveal that they ranged from as high as 515 million bushels to as low as about 250 million bushels, which is less than half, in just a few years. Naturally the growers' contribution is reduced accordingly. 
I believe that the time has arrived when the Government must underwrite the amount of money that is necessary for research, irrespective of the amount collected. A scheme similar to the wheat industry stabilisation scheme could be adopted. The growers could contribute a certain amount per tonne up to a certain figure. If their contribution goes beyond the sum that is needed by the various research committees the Government contributions could be reduced; likewise, if the contribution by the growers was insufficient the contribution by the Government could be increased. I believe that this is something to which the Government must give a great deal of consideration. 
I said at the outset that I wanted to make reference to a matter raised firstly by, I think, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and secondly by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, that is, the decision of the Australian Cabinet not to agree to the Sim contribution for special research and to control weevil infestation that was first mentioned at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting. It is my understanding that this arose from a recommendation by the Standing Committee of the Council that the Commonwealth should contribute Sim that the States between them should contribute $500,000 and that the industry should contribute a further $500,000, making a total of $2m, for special research and to control weevil infestation. The States accepted the proposal. After a deal of controversy among the growers they also in the main accepted it. But then the bombshell was dropped. The Minister for Primary Industry announced that the Government would not play ball. That has certainly left a very nasty taste in the mouths of many. The Minister has been reported on several occasions as having claimed that he did not agree to the proposal. But from information I have at my disposal he left no doubts in the minds of the members of the Agricultural Council that he had put the proposal to Cabinet. I have no doubt he did. Either he failed when he presented it to Cabinet or Cabinet rejected it out of hand. I do not know which is correct. Perhaps the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory will comment on this aspect in his contribution to the debate. 
It has always been the practice of previous Ministers to indicate Government thinking when they are talking to various business houses and industry alike and to pass information on to them but not to make promises unless they are pretty sure that Cabinet and their Government support them. In other words, I am saying that the Minister's word is gospel. I know that when the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was a Minister  we  could take what he said as being factual. We could always rely on him. But it appears to me as though those days have gone. It was either the honourable member for Corangamite or the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who made some comment earlier about this being one of the reasons why people are losing confidence in what is said in various ministerial statements - -and believe me we are certainly hearing plenty of them. 
Recently I asked in this House: Who is running the Government? If one asks the same question outside of the chamber one soon gets a variety of answers ranging from  Mr Hawke,  through a number of individuals to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and, as the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  has said, even the Australian Country Party. I am very proud to think that the Australian Country Party has been able to quell some of the crazy statements and decisions made by the Government. It is still my belief that decisions should be made by Ministers and the Cabinet and that their non-acceptance by other members of a party is tantamount to saying that there is a lack of confidence in, firstly, the Ministers and, secondly, the Cabinet. If the Caucus overrules them or, in this case, the rural rump overrules them it is likely to sap the confidence of the people. It is very easy to say that the Minister for Primary Industry is on side with the rural community on a certain issue but Caucus or Cabinet lets him down, but I will not accept that. If that is the way in which the present Government is to operate, all I can say is that it will not operate for very long. It will soon fall if it continues to operate under those conditions. No Government could operate under those principles. If an individual Minister is a good bloke but his mates in the Cabinet are a whole lot of snags, how long would one give them? In my opinion, not very long. Caucus does interfere occasionally and some strange statements are made as a result. 
I will finish my remarks right now. I have some 4 minutes of speaking time left, but I intend to take up only one of those minutes. I am sure the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory would like to say a few words about this matter. I say finally on this point: Should a man be congratulated on a job that is harmless and useless because he has not done any harm? That is what honourable members opposite are doing in this place: They are congratulating Ministers for doing harmless things or congratulating them on a job that was not badly done, in other words, congratulating Ministers for not having made any really bad mistakes. They even congratulate Ministers on not doing anything at all. I have found myself listening to a lot of people saying in this place that the Minister for Primary Industry is not a bad bloke. He may not be a bad bloke, but if he does not achieve anything in the Cabinet and if he does not achieve anything in the Parliament I do not care how nice a fellow he is - he is a failure. And that goes for the Minister for Primary Industry. 

 Dr PATTERSON (Dawson- Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the 
Northern Territory) (10.9)  -  It is a pity that the honourable member- 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the proposed referendum in relation to the changing of the national anthem. Has the Prime Minister or his Government decided whether the present anthem will be included in the referendum? If not, why not? Is the Prime Minister aware that there are many millions of true Australians who do not approve the suggested songs that have been announced? 
I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding him that he refused to answer a question I asked of him yesterday on the grounds that another honourable member on this side of the House had a similar question on the notice paper. I have noticed that the question on notice has been removed from the notice paper since then. So I again ask: Has the Prime Minister or the Government decided whether the present national anthem will be included in a referendum that he proposes to hold shortly? If not, why not? Is it also true that while he was on a recent trip to China many songs were played in lieu of the present Australian national anthem, 'God Save the Queen'? Is he also aware that there are still many millions of true Australians who do not  accept the suggested songs, 'Waltzing Matilda', 'Advance Australia Fair' and 'Song of Australia' as alternatives. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the interest rate charged by the Reserve Bank on loans to the Australian Wheat Board for the 1972-73 harvest. 
What will be the interest rate on the 1973-74 harvest. 
I have heard some rather strange addresses in this chamber over many years, but the last one really takes the cake. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  seemed to glory in getting stuck into the Australian Country Party and Liberal Party on the ground that they had taken no interest in telephone charges. Some of his statements are very hard to understand, and it is difficult to fathom his reasons for mentioning some of those matters. He said that we had put up a sham fight. Who was responsible for the change in rates for country newspapers? It was members of the Country Party and some of our colleagues in the Liberal Party, headed by the honourable mem-., ber for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who secured it, although the first man to rush outside and claim credit for it was the honourable member for Riverina, who is the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  Who was responsible for getting a stay on land line rates? Was it not the Country Party, which the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has been so generous in supporting? 
I pay tribute to the personnel of the Postmaster-General's Department, for whom I have terrific admiration. In spite of all the comments from various sources, to my mind these officers, both male and female, are genuine and hardworking. Though there may be an odd slacker towards the tail end, most of them are certainly hardworking and deserve all the credit that we can give them. I shall go further and apply these comments to the Public Service as a whole. There are far too many critics of the Public Service who do not understand the duties of public servants and do not know what they are talking about. 
This has been an interesting debate in which Government supporters have made all sorts of strange comments. The first to set the ball rolling was the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  It is strange how things have changed. Twelve months ago the Labor Party was terribly critical of the PostmasterGeneral's Department and everything that it stood for. Tonight, the honourable member for Hunter turned a complete somersault and tried to praise the Department. If any Government is entitled to credit for improvement in this Department, it must be the previous Government. There have been few changes in the activities of the Post Office since the Labor Party attained office; the real impact of any changes made by the present Government has not yet been felt. So any credit for improvement must go to the previous Government. The Country Party has always adopted the same line on matters affecting the PostmasterGeneral's Department. No Party or individual members have been more critical of the various weaknesses in the Department than the Country Party and its members. Having said that, I want to say also that where credit has been due it has come from honourable members in this corner of the chamber. But we certainly will continue to be critical where we find that there is a weakness. The honourable member for Shortland has just said that we were silent on telephone charges. How silly can you get. 
Repeat that interjection. I did not hear it. The honourable member is not game even to repeat the interjection now. The Country Party and members on this side of the House who represent country electorates have always been vocal on issues involving postal and telephone charges for the very good reason that we realise the importance to country people of both the postal and the telephone side of the Department. I think of all the urgent occasions on which the telephone is so important. I think of the times when perhaps for health reasons, sickness, fire and business you just cannot walk out your front gate and go around the corner to do your business. In these outback areas you depend upon the telephone. This is why it is so terribly important to these people. The honourable member for Shortland and others on the Government side ought to remember the old saying: 'The mail must get through'. This is why we in this corner of the Parliament are so critical from time to time of statements that have been made. I agree with the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr 
Donald Cameron) that the Postmaster-General is a nice fellow. Of course, he is a nice fellow; but I do not always agree with what he says or does. I was very perturbed, as many thousands of people in country electorates were perturbed, when he made that famous statement that it would be cheaper to buy the farm than to put a telephone on it. 
Let me get back now to this question of increased rates raised by the honourable member for Shortland. It may be that we defended a case in favour of a reduction of postage rates for country newspapers on the proposal put forward by the Postmaster-General. I am not ashamed of that. I want the honourable member for Shortland to know that I have no financial interest in any country newspapers; I think that I can say that for the bulk of the Country Party members. The basic minimum postage rate for the average newspaper prior to the introduction of this Budget was l.Sc a newspaper. The proposal was to increase the charge to 1 lc over a period of, I think, 3 years. What sort of an increase is that? The Country Party could see what would happen. I must say that I am grateful to the PostmasterGeneral for listening to and accepting our recommendations. But even so, there is a 100 per cent increase. I do not think anyone could say we are looking after country newspapers because of our personal interest. The same consideration applies in regard to other increases. I have a vivid recollection of a previous occasion on which this Party objected strongly to some increased trunk line telephone rates. We succeeded on that occasion because we believed that they were unreasonable. The Postmaster-General and the Government of the day, which was incidentally a Liberal-Country Party Government, accepted the recommendation of the Country Party back bench members. We will continue to oppose any unreasonable costs irrespective of who introduces them. 
I want to mention quickly some of the other postal rates. The simple, plain old letter used to cost 7c for 28 grams and the PostmasterGeneral says there is no change in the rate. That is right. There has not been any change in the 7c. But what the Government has done is to reduce the weight for the 7c charge from 28 grams to 20 grams. So for a letter weighing 28 grams that could have been posted prior to the introduction of the Budget for 7c you do not now pay 7c; you do not pay a slight increase; you do not pay double the amount; you pay more than double. The charge has increased from 7c to 15c. Do not tell me that that is not an excessive charge. I cannot see how the Postmaster-General or any other member of the Government can justify that one. 
The other matters to which I want to draw attention is the reclassification of post offices. I know that many people from both sides of the House have been very critical because the Postmaster-General has instigated inquiries into the possible downgrading or reclassification of some 300 official post offices and the possible closure of 1,000 non-official post offices. Seven post offices in my electorate come within the first category and forty-six come within the second category. In all fairness I want to say that if the PostmasterGeneral's Department has to increase rates because of a shortage of money or it is not making sufficient profit or, to put it in another way, it is showing a huge loss, any savings that can be achieved of course must be looked at. 
I want to defend the Department in one respect. The Department is carrying out an investigation into post offices but this does not mean that there will be an automatic downgrading of 300 post offices to a non-official status. Each of these post offices will be looked at individually. No doubt some of these post offices will be downgraded, but certainly not all of them. My guess is that many of them will never be downgraded. When it comes to the 1,000 non-official post offices- 
Naturally the Department will have to look at these post offices. I have some figures which may interest honourable members. Some post offices in my electorate show a return against cost of as low as 27.47 per cent plus about 10 per cent income from their other activities. The situation in regard to nonofficial post offices is even worse. One post office in my electorate is showing a return of 3.65 per cent plus, naturally, a few other incidentals. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The constitutional measure presently before the House are the simple reason why the Opposition will find it difficult to get back into government again. The electorates will be so gerryman dered that we will not be able to get back into government again. 
That is true, it was a panic speech by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  who is very worried. My colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  rightly raised a point of order when the honourable member was speaking but you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  ruled against the point of order. The honourable member for Mallee referred to the fact that what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro was trying to do was to put over an early policy speech in an endeavour to convince the people that he is looking after their interests when, in actual fact, I believe that he is selling them down the drain. 
I rise to discuss some important issues that I believe should be raised in this House because of the interest that is shown in them outside. They are important issues about which I am sure many Australians are very concerned. I commence by referring to a couple of questions which I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  last week and which he refused to answer. It was only through constant pressure from members on this side of the chamber and, in particular, from my colleague the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who took a point of order that the Prime Minister reluctantly got up and gave part of an answer to the question that I asked him. Many people will guess what I am talking about. I am sick and tired of hearing members of the Government say that they have a mandate for this and a mandate for that. In relation to everything they want to introduce into this chamber they say: 'We have a mandate for it'. What is a mandate? Do members of the Government believe that everything that was mentioned by every Labor Party condidate at the last election was accepted by all the people and that therefore they can legislate in respect of it? What a mandate really means, in the broad, is that if a party is elected to government it can implement the broad policies of that party - not every little issue that it has put up. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  referred to a 3 per cent interest rate for primary producers. Where is that? There is a mandate. Why does he not implement that policy? An honourable member refers to abolition of probate duty. That is another issue. One could go on for some time discussing these things. I believe that the Prime Minister has not got a mandate to introduce a lot of the things that he is introducing, including changing the national anthem. I want to refer to this matter in passing because people outside this House who have not got a voice directly in it are certainly complaining very strongly about any possible change in the national anthem. It is true that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has on the notice paper under general business a notice of motion dealing with this question, and therefore I am excluded from going into the details of it. 
All I want to say is that I agree with the motion that is to be moved by the honourable member for Warringah, and I am certain that millions of people outside this chamber also agree with it. I am only hoping that an opportunity will be given to the honourable member for Warringah to bring this matter on at an early date. We cannot afford to take the risk of moving into the Christmas recess without discussing this matter. It should be discussed, and I appeal to those honourable members who have notices of motion on the notice paper ahead of the notice of motion of the honourable member for Warringah to consider withdrawing their notices of motion so that he can discuss this important matter and certainly bring it before the House. 
Over recent weeks, as a result of statements made on this subject by the Prime Minister, I believe that people have been stirred up. I was very surprised to hear the Prime Minister, in answer to my question recently, say that there has been some synthetic indignation stirred up in the last week or so. Why was this synthetic indignation stirred up? It was stirred up for the simple reason that the Prime Minister announced that we would have a poll of a handful of people - less than one-half of one per cent of the Australian people will get a voice on this question. What about the other 99i per cent? After all, we are living in a democracy. This is the thing that the Government talks about. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I will refer to the Prime Minister's recent trip to China. I have here a letter from an individual who is somewhat perturbed at some of the statements, which were made in China recently. Without divulging who this person is - if any honourable member would like to see the letter confidentially I am prepared to show it to him - I will read the letter because I believe that it is of great interest and importance. Referring to the Prime Minister's statements, this person said: 
I was also disgusted that he asked the Chinese people not to play 'God Save the Queen'. I think its time the Prime Minister realised that - he represents all the people of Australia and not just himself. I am sure the Chinese would hold loyalty to one's own country, which includes its flag and anthem, above petty personal feelings. 
Because of his lack of respect for our anthem in China, I state quite bluntly that he did not represent me, and I hope that it will not be long before this arrogant buffoon- 
'Arrogant buffoon' are the words that appear in this letter. 
I was a little surprised to hear the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  carry on as he did this evening. It is amazing how people change. I happen to have a pretty vivid recollection of ia few things that happened prior to 2 December last. I just cannot understand the attitude of a man whom I would call a close friend, a former resident of my great electorate. 
He votes for me, too, I understand. It is surprising to see how a person can change almost overnight. I could not write down all the nasty things which the honourable member said about members of the Opposition - about them being ignorant and arrogant. I remind the honourable member of the conduct of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  on one occasion. I say that very seriously. Has the honourable member for Wilmot ever seen, while he has been a member, any member of the Liberal and Country Parties do what the honourable member for Wills did on that occasion? He refused to leave the House when asked to do so by the  Speaker  of the day. The  Speaker  had to adjourn the House in the early hours of the morning because the honourable member for Wills refused to obey the Chair. So, I am a little surprised at the honourable member for Wills. 
Before I get on to the subject matter which I wish to raise specifically, I wish to associate myself with the comments of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  He raised some very important questions tonight about the smearing that goes on in this chamber, particularly what went on this morning. I agree entirely with his comments in relation to a former  Speaker.  It happened before I was a member of Parliament. Like many other members, I read and I am prepared to accept information which is given to me. When I was elected one of the first things which the then Country Party Whip, who was giving the new members a rundown on what we were permitted to do, did was to warn us against casting reflections- on a member's ability to carry on effectively because he was under the influence. It would be terribly easy for me to accuse the honourable member for Wilmot of being unsteady on his feet. We all know that he is a teetotaller. It would be very easy for somebody else to follow suit and stay that he is always unsteady on his feet. In other words, we would imply that he is an habitual drunkard, when we know very well that he is a teetotaller.  Mr Speaker,  I would urge you to give a lot of consideration to this point, to try to stop these imputations being thrown around the chamber. Unfortunately, I must say that they come from both sides. 
Some of the questions which were raised by the honourable member for Angas in relation to the statements and words used by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning were very disturbing to me. To think that the leader of a nation can carry on in this way. Perhaps backbenchers can be excused for losing control of their senses in this place because they have not the authority and they cannot get the things they want. But the Prime Minister is the No. 1 man in this country. Recently somebody said that he was the greatest. I wonder who it was. 
One of the other things which I wish to mention relates to the Post Office. This subject seems to be a favourite of members in this corner of the House - members of the Country Party. We are always raising questions about the Post Office. This is because it is so important to the constituents whom we represent. Reference has been made to the possible closure of many non-official post offices in country areas. One of the problems which I can see developing if the Government closes these non-official post offices which may be uneconomic to keep in operation is the loss of services to country people. It has been put to me quite seriously that it is impossible for anyone to become an agent of the Post Office for the purpose of selling postage stamps. It is illegal for anyone to trade in stamps for postal purposes. I ask the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to give some consideration to appointing agents of the Post Office so that they may sell stamps for the convenience of people in a particular area. It might mean that they will have to be paid some form of commission. I do not know; the Post Office could work that out. I appeal to the P.M.G. to consider that. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer is an article that appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' of today, Thursday, 15 November. It is headed Labor to Limit Subsidy to Wheatgrowers' and is written by David Wilson. I do not know who David Wilson is, but I suggest to the editor of the 'Age' that perhaps he should have a little yarn to this fellow and tell him to get a few of his facts somewhere near the ball because some of the things which he has said in this article indicate that he knows little about the subject. What he says is somewhat confusing to the industry, to consumers and to taxpayers alike. After all, people read things in newspapers, and when they are set out like this people expect them to be somewhere near the facts. After reading this article one would think that the wheat industry was literally fleecing the consumers in Australia today, but I point out that on today's prices the wheat grower is subsidising the consumers tremendously. I do not know how many people are aware of this fact, but taking into account the cost of the material in bread, namely flour, for every loaf of bread that the consumer purchases the wheat grower donates another loaf - it is two loaves for one. If one compares the international price for wheat today with the price of wheat for home consumption, and provided that the price, the level of consumption and a few other things remain the same for a 12-months period, one sees that growers are making a contribution of $120m to consumers in Australia. I repeat that growers are providing a subsidy of $120m to the consumers. It is not a matter of the taxpayers, providing a subsidy to the growers as we so often hear the people allege. The article goes on to state: 
The Government also plans a guaranteed price for wheat exports, adjusted to the ruling world price. 
A little further on it states that the Government intends to conclude this open-ended commitment; and that it will now limit the subsidy to $30m a year to keep the stabilisation fund intact. The interesting point is that that is part of the original recommendation of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. But this article does not point out that wheat growers are prepared to contribute another $80m to keep the fund in balance. 
The other point I make is that the article indicates that there will be a guaranteed price for wheat. The Government has the funds available to guarantee the price and will hold the price. I want to know how it will level this thing out. Then the article goes on to state: 
Wheat industry sources last night applauded the new proposals. 
That is rather interesting because there has been no announcement. Even the so-called wheat experts have been told nothing. There has been no announcement in this House, and no mention of individuals in the wheat industry. Is this a case of a little bit of speculation on the part of a writer for the Melbourne 'Age'? That is what I suggest it is. I suggest to the editor of the Melbourne 'Age' that he look closely at this article and find out where the writer got the information. There are other points in the article but time will not allow me to deal with all of them. There is another inaccuracy in the last paragraph. It refers to growers having to plan their industry. Heavens above, they have planned it for years. Any man who has had any success has planned. 
I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  on this subject. I commence my remarks by saying that if ever there were a Bill on which one could spend a great deal of time in criticising certain of its provisions, this would be it. I appreciate that, if a government is to spend a lot of money it, of course must take certain action to increase taxation revenue to meet the additional costs. In other words, it is virtually a body blow to many sections of the community. During the second reading debate we heard a number of honourable members, particularly from this side of the chamber, refer to the problems caused by the wine tax and the changed taxation provisions for primary producers as a whole. I should like to make brief and quick reference to taxation as it affects pensioners. I appreciate that the Commissioner of Taxation has issued a pamphlet entitled 'Income Tax and Pensions 1973-74 - An Explanatory Booklet'. I point out directly to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that since the Budget was introduced in this place, a few months ago, I have had numerous requests for information from elderly people. I do not want to go into all the ramifications of the problems faced by elderly people. Having examined this document which was put out by the Commissioner of Taxation one, to say the least, would need to have a little knowledge of the general run of taxation before one could understand it. 
Quite naturally, one of the first problems facing people of the age of 75 years or over is that their eyesight starts to fail. In many cases they are not used to worrying about figures. Take the case of a widow who usually left those things to her husband. Now, because of alterations to our system, made here in Canberra, she is expected to fill out a taxation return. I appeal to the Treasurer and ask him or his Department to put out a simple explanation for those people who naturally would find this document terribly difficult to follow. It is easy for those of us who have made a close study of these things and have been filling out taxation returns for a period of years. We can work it all out but the people I mentioned want to know what sort of returns they have to put in. They want to know what sort of income is subject to taxation. I am thinking particularly now of war widows, for instance. Such people want to know whether they have to include in their returns income received from the Department of Repatriation because of the death of their husbands, and so forth. I will not take up any more of the time of the Committee. I appeal to the Treasurer to see whether he can simplify this particular document and forward it to those people who are eligible for pensions under the new age principle applying to those of 75 years of age. 
Motion (by  Mr Crean)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What quantity of wheat was (a) delivered to the Australian Wheat Board, (b) sold for consumption within Australia and (c) sold for export during each of the last 5 years. 
 That is correct. Anyone who queries that statement can see for themselves in the report. I have a copy of the report in front of me. I do not want to read from it. I do not have sufficient time in which to do so, anyway. 
 But what the honourable member for Gippsland said is perfectly true,  Mr Speaker.  I reserve the right to have a slight difference of opinion with the honourable member for Eden-Monaro on this very subject at some future date. 
I rise this evening to refer to the export of merino rams and to the decision that was announced in respect of this matter in the Press this morning. This announcement was headlined in the Press this morning: 'Merino exports will be banned'. I raise this question for a very simple reason. First and foremost, I do not dispute at all the decision of those wool growers who cast a vote against the export of a limited number of merino rams. I rise to draw attention to the reaction of some people to that decision although it was announced only in the last 24 hours. Some people have the idea that a certain amount of apathy existed among wool growers to this question as fewer than 50 per cent of those eligible to vote cast a vote. To my mind, that is not the position at all. A number of those people who, according to the rules, regulations or conditions laid down by the present Government, were eligible to vote, in actual fact had no interest in this matter at all. What happened was tantamount to saying that, if the wheat growers were to participate in a ballot on an issue specific to their industry, oat growers, rice growers and growers of other cereals should also be invited to vote in making that decision. 
I believe that wool growers should be classified in 3 categories. The first category is the stud merino breeder. He breeds rams for sale. In other words he breeds rams for possible sale on the export market. The next category is the merino breeder who is not interested in selling his rams but who, to maintain the quality of his  stud, may  purchase rams. The third category is the grazier who runs sheep other than merinos. He is not the slightest bit interested in whether merino rams are exported. The man in the second classification, who is a merino breeder and who is interested in purchasing rams, is opposed to the export of merino rams for the simple reason that it is best for him to be able to obtain his sheep at a time when there is a surplus of stock. 
I raise this matter tonight because a number of people have spoken to me not in the last 24 hours but since the announcement was made that a poll was to be held on this matter. As I said earlier, a number of people eligible to vote were not the slightest bit interested in casting a vote. I want the Australian people to know that whatever percentage of those eligible to vote did not vote - I have heard the figure 53 per cent mentioned - a number of those people literally had no interest in voting on this issue. 
This matter has been very definitely a political issue. It has continued for quite some time. I was most concerned to hear the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  suggest that the Australian Country Party and the Australian Wool Industry Conference did not have their ears to the ground and that they did not know what they were talking about. In actual fact, I believe that the Country Party and the AWIC do know what they are talking about and that their remarks were directed to the stud merino breeder. If honourable members reflect on the history of the discussions of and decisions made by the AWIC, I am sure that they will agree with me that that body has been representing the interests of stud merino breeders. 
I say that the decision of the Government made some months ago to have a vote on this issue by all wool growers was completely wrong. I do not know of one other industry - I may be corrected if I am wrong - whose members, because of the decision of a political party, are not permitted to sell their goods on the export market. The exception is merino rams. This position is farcical. I have always believed that to be the case because stud merino breeders who wish to export their rams can export them through the New Zealand market. It is true that Australia has an arrangement with New Zealand by which New Zealand breeders cannot export Australian rams from that country, but they can export the progeny. There is very little difference between the two. 
It was my wish to mention one or two other matters this evening. But I do know that the list of speakers listed to participate in this adjournment debate is rather long. I thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who stood down to allow me to speak on this subject. I do know that if I continue much longer he will not be able to complete his remarks this evening. But I do reserve the right to make reference to a statement made by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan).  I am glad that the honourable member is present in the House. I will not go into any details of this matter at this stage because I appreciate that to do so I would require more than the 3 minutes now available to me. I am concerned at some of the statements which have been circulated by the honourable member and which have appeared in the Press in which on the one hand the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has said that he is opposed to any tax on the export of meat when on the other hand, as we find on picking up newspapers, the views of the honourable member are reported in such headlines as: 'MP calls for export tax on meat'. 
I rise to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  on this terribly important subject. I am absolutely disappointed at the attitude of the 2 speakers who have been put up today 'by the Government. We have heard hysterical arguments rather than historical arguments. I believe that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  both of whom are at the table, ought to be ashamed of themselves for advancing such weak arguments. The Minister for Services and Property used a number of excuses based on technical grounds. He even criticised the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and the mover of the motion, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  on the ground that they said that a vote would need to be taken of all Australians including people in aged persons homes, etc. I have never heard anything as silly or ridiculous as what I heard in that respect. 
The Minister for Services and Property made light of the whole subject. I am very disappointed that he took that line. He made reference to the fact that a referendum on an Australian national anthem would cost at least $2m. That is not right. If a referendum were held solely on this issue, perhaps his claim would be correct. But naturally the people of Australia would accept the principle that such a referendum would be held in conjunction with other referendums or with an election for the Senate or for the House of Representa tives. After all, as the Minister for Immigration said, the argument for a new national anthem has been discussed for many years. I claim, as many other people in this country claim, that no great urgency exists for a determination of this matter. I believe that there is no real dispute that there is some merit in having our own national anthem as distinct from 'God Save the Queen' the present anthem. I do not think that there is any doubt about that fact. But what would the cost of a new anthem be - I am not speaking of the financial cost - to the nation from an historical point of view. 
I was a little disappointed at some of the comments made by the Minister for Immigration. He appeared to do nothing but put forward a number of excuses for the fact that the Government is  Tunning  away from this question. He referred to a lot of reasons why it had been rejected in former times. The interesting thing is that it had been rejected by people in former times. Why is there this rush now? I think I can say with confidence that most honourable members, present in this chamber, when they were boys at school, recognised the importance of the Monday morning ceremony at their school when they saluted the flag and honoured the monarch. Many thousands, if not millions, of people would remember those actions, and that is why they remain loyal to their country. 
The question, as I see it, in the resolution moved by the honourable member for Warringah and the question on the lips of people is, firstly, whether we really want a change in the national anthem. If the answer is yes, the second question is: What is wrong with giving all the people an opportunity to voice their opinion? If we have had the existing anthem for 100 years why should a handful of people decide that they are the ones to make the change? That is all we ask. We want as many people as possible to voice their opinion on this subject. Like all other honourable members in this place, I represent about 50,000 voters plus many non-voters. Whilst I am here I will always endeavour to put forward the thinking of these people I represent. My constituents and I feel very deeply about this subject. In recent weeks I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question. On the first occasion he absolutely refused to answer. He ran away from it. On the second occasion he did likewise. It was not until the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a query and there was some crossfire in the House that the Prime Minister reluctantly answered part of the question. 
The people have been refused the opportunity to voice their opinions, and that is where the Opposition objects to the actions of the Prime Minister. This has resulted in a great deal of correspondence on the subject. I will not attempt to state with any accuracy the number of people who have spoken to me on this subject other than to say that, coupled with those who have engaged in correspondence, it would be in excess of 2,000 people. That is a mighty lot of people. Let me give an illustration of how people have reacted. A coupon entitled 'The National Anthem' was placed in one of the local newspapers in my electorate, the Wimmera 'Mail-Times' - I will table it if anybody wants to see it - to give the people an opportunity to voice their opinion on this subject. I checked and found that the circulation of this newspaper is a little over 9,000. The coupon was printed in 2 editions. The last time I added up the figures - I have still a whole lot more here to place before the Prime Minister; he has already got over 800  -  there were about 980 coupons. In other words, that is a return of over 5 per cent from the public. I believe that that is rather considerable. A lot of journalists will admit that 5 per cent is almost impossible to attain. The Sydney 'Sun' also carried out a similar exercise. I have been in touch with the Sydney 'Sun' and I have been informed that over 30,000 coupons have been returned to that newspaper. Yet the Minister for Immigration says that there is not a great deal of interest shown. The significant point is that those coupons that have been returned are running at 4 to 1 in favour of the retention of the present national anthem. The Minister cannot ignore that. 
As I said a little while ago, I have received a lot of correspondence and petitions on this subject. The Clerks of the House know only too well that I have been presenting petitions. I received another one only late last evening. There are only about 11 or 12 subscribers to it but it contains a little note at the bottom which is terribly important because a lot of people today say that it is only the elderly and the infirm - the old diehards, the old loyalists - who are interested in retaining the present national anthem. The footnote says: Average age 26 years'. That is all it says. Surely that proves the point that it is not the elderly alone who are interested in this subject. 
I have had some correspondence from various organisations throughout my electorate, outside my electorate and even outside Victoria. I have here a letter signed by. 29 people. Other letters have been signed by 31 people, 14 people, 23 people, 26 people, 14 people and 42 people. These are letters, not petitions. I have not got time to quote all the various statements appearing in these letters. In these organisations to which I 'have referred I include a lot of municipalities that have been in touch with me on this subject. The Minister cannot say that they are irresponsible organisations. They have been good enough to discuss the matter at their various council meetings and have decided to carry certain resolutions. Why are they doing it? For the simple reason that they believe it is important. 
I want to quote from some of the letters. I will not mention the names nor will I quote the whole letter. One letter states: 
My personal opinion is that it should be retained as it has been our national anthem for over  200  years, and why should a few politicians change it. If a song is required for such events as sporting functions and the Olympic Games, and this has much to commend it, I would be in favour of Advance Australia Fair being used.  Mr Whitlam  says that God Save The Queen would be used when  Her  Majesty is in Australia. To me that is the joke of the week, or  perhaps I should say of the year! 
Another one says: 
Secondly, Australia's noisiest boast has always been our freedom and democracy. Is  Mr Whitlam  afraid of being outnumbered that he refuses to include 'God Save The Queen' in the list of anthems. 
A further one says: 
The British people love the Royal Family as their own and honour them for what they are - a wonderful example to each and every one - through war and peace. I am sure this has kept the nation  together.  I have lived with them and know. 
I turn to another one which states: 
Let us hope that  Mr Whitlam  is man enough to  admit that he has made a mistake here. 
I endorse those remarks. Is the Government man enough to admit its mistake? The Minister for Immigration says that it is too late. 
That would be one of the weakest arguments I have heard in defence of the present situation, that we have woken up too late. It is never too late. I appeal to the Minister to analyse what the Prime Minister said in answer to one of those original questions. He said that he was going to take a vote of 60,000 people, or get their views, and then place them before Cabinet. Is it then too late? What would happen if the 60,000 people voted against the Government's proposals completely? I challenge honourable members opposite to tell me what they, as individuals, would do if they were fortunate enough to be among the 60,000 people and if they wanted to retain the present national anthem. How would they cast a vote? They would be given no option but to vote 1, 2 or 3. I am not sure whether it will be done that way or by a tick. If they were opposed to the 3 of them how would they vote? All I suggest to people who may be fortunate enough to get a vote is that they do not ignore it but write in 'the present national anthem' and at the same time abide by the rest of the voting instructions. That would indicate whether some people do not agree with it. 
I would like to say many things on this subject but time will not allow it. But, I believe that I speak on behalf of many Australians when I say that if I am wrong in my judgment and am against the majority I will respect the decision of the majority; and if I am correct I would expect the reverse to be the position, that is, for the minority to respect the majority decision. No country can survive historically if there is no loyalty. Australians cannot and will not respect a decision if it is made by a few with the support of the minority against the majority, and that is what I fear will happen here. I appeal to the Prime Minister and the Government in all the sincerity that I can offer to reconsider this subject. Let the people decide the issue because I believe that it is one of the most important historical decisions that can be made in the interests of the future of this great country. The issues are straightforward, as they have been enumerated by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  One issue is to include in any form of poll the opportunity for the people to decide whether they want to retain the present anthem, and the other is to give as many people as possible - if that is the way the Minister would like me to spell it out - the opportunity to be able to voice their opinion as to whether they want 'Waltzing Matilda', 'Advance Australia Fair' or whatever it may be. I again say that it is not too late to do as the honourable member for Warringah suggests, and I am surprised at the Minister for Immigration for talking such rubbish as to say that we should have woken up earlier. 
No one took this question seriously when the Prime Minister first mentioned it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As it is freely stated outside this House that the Government will no longer guarantee a return to wheat growers by, and when if necessary, Treasury subvention, but now proposes that any future price support will be in the form of a repayable loan to the industry, I ask: Is it true that for over 20 years under the previous Government growers operated under a stabilisation plan that guaranteed them the cost of production for a fixed quantity of wheat, thereby removing any suggestion that it was an open-ended commitment? As the reported new proposals remove such guarantees, when will the Government inform the growers of the nation of its intensions in order that growers may be able to plan their next year's production? Will the growers be justified in asking that in future the Australian Wheat Board charge the consumers in Australia a price equivalent to the full international price instead of the present price which is running at approximately 50 per cent of the overseas price? 
1 wish to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and seconded by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  Perhaps I could commence by congratulating the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  upon successfully introducing a new scheme last year in relating to the rising of the House at 1 1 p.m. Without a doubt, this practice has been accepted by honourable members on both sides of the House. Also I go along with his closing remark that it is about time we had an all-Party look at this situation. I am afraid that the Minister has overlooked the interests  of a lot of people within this nation. I represent a fairly large electorate which, geographically, is not a great distance from this place but there are other honourable members - particularly on this side of the House - who will have great difficulty in servicing their electorates and from time to time keeping up with some of the suggested extended hours. I refer to sittings on Mondays and Tuesday mornings and occasional Friday sittings. This makes things very difficult. 
Frequently in this House the Minister for Services and Property has referred to the question of one vote one value. I am not too sure what he means by that. My interpretation of one vote one value is that the people in the various electorates have the right to contact their local member of Parliament. This is most important. It is all very well for the Minister to say that if we do away with Tuesday morning sittings we will have to find some more hours. This is a case of cutting off your nose to spite your face. If honourable members cannot get back to their electorates to inform their constituents what is going on in this place the only opportunity they will have will be to speak in this House and hope that they get the message across in that way. I do not think we would be saving anything at all. 
When I refer to the various electorates throughout Australia whose members have great difficulty I immediately think of honourable members on the Government side such as the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  There are only four of them. When I look at the Opposition side I find the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  and I suppose there are others, who are finding great difficulty. I include my own electorate of Wimmera. Geographically, the electorates of Gippsland, Mallee and Wimmera are not very far from Canberra. Honourable members whose seats are in Sydney can literally jump in a car, 5 minutes later they are in a plane, and three-quarters of an hour later they are here in Canberra. This does not apply to some of my neighbouring colleagues. They do not have an air service. As one colleague says, they have to walk. That is not quite as silly as it sounds, because some of them have to walk part of the distance. T suppose I should be sticking to my own electorate in this instance. 
Not necessarily? I will use my own electorate as an illustration. When the House sits on a Monday the only way in which I can get here is to leave home on Sunday. This applies to plenty of other honourable members. I do not think that this is altogether a fair attitude for the Government to take. In normal circumstances, even when the House sits on Tuesday afternoon, I actually leave my home at 8 o'clock on Monday morning. I know that if my colleague the honourable member for Mallee wants to spend any time in his office he virtually leaves home at 1 o'clock on Monday morning to get here by Tuesday afternoon. These are the points which I am afraid the Minister has overlooked. 
I am suggesting that in no circumstances should the Parliament consider sitting on a Monday at all. That is the first point I make. The second one is that we should not be sitting on Tuesday morning. My final point on the issue is that we should not be sitting on Fridays either.  Mr Speaker,  you will know from experience that little government business is done when this House sits on Friday. Experience has proved that. If the Minister wants more sitting hours there are plenty of weeks in the middle of the year when this Parliament does not sit. It is all very well to say that Ministers have to go flitting around the world to visit this and that. From my experience, Australia would possibly be in a better position if some of the Ministers stayed at home. 
Whilst the Minister for Services and Property may be wanting to do the right thing and to get all his legislation through, if he wants to push through hundreds of different Bills as we did last year he must also consider Opposition members who, unlike members of the Government Party, have no opportunity to study the Bills. I think that this is terrribly important. If all the spare time is taken up for sittings of the House, what chance do the Opposition Parties have of studying the legislation? Those people who have difficulty in getting here on a Tuesday would find it difficult to attend the various committee meetings. Of course, they are only a small percentage; most honourable members can come here on Tuesday mornings. That is one of the reasons why I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I am sure that it is a reasonable one. 
I also agree with the Minister when he says that it is about time we had an all-Party discussion on this issue. I hope that honourable members opposite and the Minister for Services and Property will give every consideration to some of the issues I have raised and to the issues which my colleagues, the honourable member for Kennedy, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party have raised because after all they are very important matters. I repeat that we have a responsibility to our electors. If we do not have the opportunity to get home and speak to them personally then we have no alternative but to take up the time of this chamber and try to put over our point of view so that they in turn at least know what is going on. 
The address prepared by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and delivered personally by  Her  Majesty to both Houses of the Parliament on 28 February was a disaster, to say the least, for the very future of this once great nation. It was obvious to me and to many others that he tried to please all in that address but it lacked detail and gave little or no mention to some of the important issues facing the nation in this vital period when the economy is sitting on a razor's edge. Inflation rated less than 5 lines. Wheat stabilisation, another very important issue to primary producers, rated 16 words. Immigration did not even get a mention. I am amazed that one could prepare an address outlining the various issues that a government proposes to introduce from now until election time which could be so weak. I believe that immigration is a vital issue. Maybe it is the case that the Prime Minister could not keep pace with the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and his policy which changes almost daily, if not at least weekly. 
The records over a number of years show that one of the best Ministers for Immigration that Australia has known was the late Arthur Calwell. I think that the record will eventually show that the present Minister could be somewhat the opposite. It is fantastic to think that the policy of a nation can change so often. It is a case of: Yes, we have no discrimination; yes, we are not prepared to open the doors; yes, we will increase our intake; yes, we will decrease our intake. Surely this Minister must go down as a yes man. But he is not prepared to say yes to the creation of a homogeneous population. Late last year he decided that he would introduce a blanket amnesty on all those people who had entered Australia illegally, irrespective of who they were, where they came from and what record they may have. It was a blanket amnesty, yet whan it came to the Columbians there was an all-out blitz to deport them. At the same time people genuinely wanting to come to Australia have great difficulty unless they can satisfy many of the qualifications laid down, and in some cases that is almost impossible. This Government should not be proud of some of the policies laid down by the Minister for Immigration. They are inconsistent to say the least. 
It was suggested some 12 or 18 months ago that this Minister could well become the Minister for Primary Industry. If ever I could congratulate the Prime Minister, I can congratulate him on not making that appointment. At present the Government is in shambles. We have been told all sorts of things about open Government and the like. But what do we find? It is open all right. Everyone is contributing, from  Mr Hawke  to the unions, the backbenchers, members of the Government and the odd Minister. They all have a say in relation to policy. Even just before the suspension of the sitting the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  was appealing in this chamber for consideration for his Department. This is not the place for a Minister to put forward his suggestions or requests to Cabinet. He should do that in another place. I remind the House of that famous statement: T am the greatest', but he did not know the gun was loaded. How often have we heard that statement? 
I believe that the Prime Minister is now completely out of touch. He is unaware of what is going on around him. The old cliche: A good boss never soils his hands, and if he does he has lost confidence in his team' must always be remembered. It is obvious that the Prime Minister has lost completely the confidence of his colleagues for the way in which he has been making repeated statements about this, that and the other. I think the feeling is reciprocated so far as many of his Ministers are concerned. Time will not allow me to spell out all the details, but I can illustrate one or two. Being a representative of a very important rural area I naturally refer to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  It is obvious that he cannot secure the various things that he wants to assist the industry, or that he says he wants to assist the industry. Frequently we read and hear that he agrees with this decision or with that decision. But what happens? There is no result because too many people in other places - in the Cabinet, the Caucus and the rural rump - have a voice on the subject. So while he can make all the promises, I repeat what I said in this chamber not so many months ago: If a Minister makes a promise and .cannot keep it, then no matter how nice he may be - he can be a gentleman of the highest order - he would naturally be a failure as a Minister. 
I refer to some articles that I read in the Melbourne 'Sun' of this morning. The heading on one is: 'Super row is held off by PM'. What does all this mean? There should be no row about this. If a government makes a decision surely that is the end of the issue. If there is to be a difference of opinion it should be sorted out before the announcement is made. A little further down the page there appears: 
Pensions Bid Fails. A Caucus bid to force the Federal Government to give pensioners an extra $1.40 a week, on top of the proposed $3 a week rise, failed yesterday. 
Where are we going? Is it any wonder the people outside this place are losing confidence? I refer again to the superphosphate question. I do not want to go into all the details. I think most of my constituents know where I stand. I think most of the constituents throughout Australia know where the Opposition stands. But heavens above, they do not know where the Government stands. The announcement by the Prime Minister on this subject proves beyond all doubt his lack of knowledge of the electorate in relation to this question and his lack of knowledge and understanding on the practical side. I, like many of my colleagues, cannot understand why men like the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Immigration can see what is going on and yet not have any influence. 
Then we look at some of the backbenchers like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  Where do they stand? Do they really support their Government on this issue or are they trying to water down the decision? Other members from the Government side have made contributions to this debate. I should like to see just what the Government will do eventually. The Prime Minister suggested that the question could not be put to the Industries Assistance Commission because it would not have time to hear the case before the superphosphate subsidy was due for renewal. I remind honourable members of the actions of and statements made by some of my Country Party colleagues on this issue a few months ago. They virtually told this chamber and the electorate as a whole that it was a tragedy that they had to introduce a Commission such as this. 
As to the actual merits or demerits of this question, I think it is pretty obvious to all and sundry - even those who were not in agreement in the early stages - that this is not a question of assistance to primary industries alone. This decision to remove the bounty will have a long term effect. It will have a deep effect on many sections of the community. It will affect the cost of foodstuffs. It seems that it will react strongly against the very people which this Government claims to represent. This Government has one goal and it is pretty obvious. Anybody who has had a bit of success and anybody who has a little bit of financial backing will suffer. This Government's aim is: Let's belt him'. Because primary industries are doing fairly well at the present time they also are included. It is a matter of: 'Let's belt the primary producer'. This has been borne out by the various actions taken by this Government, particularly in the last Budget. But the strange thing is that if one analyses the position of the primary producer on this question one will find that it is the small man who will get hit and not the big primary producer. The big primary producer will carry the burden, but at the same time he can diversify. He can cut production by not using sufficient quantities of superphosphate and it will not make much difference to him in the long term. But the small man cannot do that and he is the one who will be first affected. This is certainly a ridiculous situation. 
The other point I want to make on this matter is that the subsidy payment is not due to cease until the end of the year. Why would the Prime Minister want to make a statement at this stage? The reason is simple. He was after some kudos within certain sections of the community, but it has rebounded. The primary producers can see that if the subsidy cuts out, because of other increases- in costs, they will have to pay approximately double for superphosphate next year. So they decide: Let us build our soil fertility with an added contribution this year. If this happens it will over burden the superphosphate companies and next year the reverse will be the situation. The companies will not be able to supply the quantities required this year and next year they will not be able to sell their superphosphate. Where do the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, the honourable member for Macarthur, the Minister for Immigration and the Minister for Northern Development stand on this matter? 
I refer to some articles that I read in the tion I was rather amused to read in The Donald Birchip Times' of Friday, 1 March 1974, an article headed 'Two Views on Super Bounty'. The article sets out my view, which I will not repeat because most of my constituents know where I stand on this. But I want to read a few words attributed to  Mr Smith,  the endorsed Labor candidate for the seat of Mallee. The article reads: 

 Mr Smith, endorsed Labor candidate for Mallee, said Australian Fertilizer Limited's  profit for the current financial year was running at 97.8 per cent. 
How can the expenditure of public money be justified when ali it is doing is jacking up private profits?', he said. 
The farmer had not been receiving the benefits of the subsidy. 
That man has evidently been listening to the Minister for Immigration because I can recall him as the honourable member for Riverina saying in this House when he was in Opposition that the primary producer never got anything from the subsidy. What does it all mean? Last year the superphosphate companies had to put up a case to the Prices Justification 
Tribunal. The Tribunal said: 'You are entitled to an increase in your -price'. How can anyone work this out? Where does the Minister stand on this matter. It seems to be a ridiculous situation. I am surprised that a candidate for an electoral seat could turn around and follow the line taken by the Minister for Immigration. I suppose he was after a bit of free publicity. All I can say is that he is using the wrong angle to achieve any success. 
No doubt he will hang himself if he follows the Minister for Immigration on matters of this kind. Time will not allow me to cover all the matters I would like to cover in this debate but I want to refer briefly to the Department of Social Security because I think there are a few anomalies that need to be looked into. For the purpose of social security recipients I divide benefits into 4 categories. They are: Help for the aged; help for the invalid; help for the unemployed and others - the 'others' being the little side issues to which the Department may attend. I think we can accept the principle as laid down by the Government because the Opposition agrees on the phasing out of the means test. I think I can say that the Opposition Parties generally support the principle of an increase in the various social security rates. The only question is what should be the increase. The recipients in the fourth category involve assistance for the unemployed. I am not too sure whether we all accept this one in toto. 
I want to say at the outset that as far as I am concerned there are 2 different classifications of unemployed. There are those people who through no fault of their own lose their job. They are out of work and they cannot secure work. I think these people must be looked after. But there is another section of people who have no intention whatsoever of earning their crust when they find that we are giving them unemployment benefits on which they can live comfortably. One might say that no man can live on $23 or whatever it will be in a few weeks time - maybe $26 or $27  -  and this would be true. If the person is married he can get the wife's allowance. It has come to my notice - it is very difficult to be able to prove what I am about to say - that it is very easy indeed for an individual to register under one name in one centre and to register under another name in another centre. This means that he gets double the unemployment rate. 
I just made it very plain to the honourable member who interjected that I cannot prove it. How can you prove these things? But the point is that we know it goes on. Of course we know it goes on. Anyone who does not believe it goes on certainly has not got his feet on the ground. He is certainly not watching the situation and he is certainly not talking to the employment officers in his area. This is something that I believe this Government must look at very closely. I think that if a person refuses to go out genuinely to look for work then he must be classified on some form of sliding scale. If the scale comes down low enough, sooner or later he will make sure that he does look for work. In my own area there have been fellows making claims to be and classifying themselves as worm catchers, lecturers, lift drivers and all this sort of thing, knowing only too well that there are no vacancies in the area. Yet when they go along to the employment officer, naturally everything is treated in a confidential manner. That is why I say that you cannot prove these things. Nevertheless it is going on and it is time that this Government took action. 
I am telling you that it is time the Government took action. I am prepared to support a scheme which includes a sliding scale- 
 It is unfortunate that this afternoon the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  must raise the question of racial discrimination in such an important discussion as this. The very basis of this matter of public importance is spelt out clearly. The first point is the failure of the Government to inform the House adequately of changes in immigration policy. The second point is the consequence of such changes. In my political career, no Minister has used more words, made more Press statements, had more publicity - I do not blame the Press for this because we know he is a very colourful character - confused more people, indeed divided more people and changed the policy more frequently than the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  This to me and to many people outside this place is certainly very worrying. The Minister said earlier that he was abolishing discrimination. I would like someone to explain what that statement means. The Minister seems to hide under the cloak of plenty of words and plenty of statements, confusing all, but there is little mention of a homogeneous population. He has prided himself on numerous occasions that he does not have a Press secretary. I would suggest to the Minister for Immigration that maybe he would not be in this position today if he had a Press secretary. Maybe he would not have made such conflicting remarks over a long period. Up until a year ago Australia, to my mind and in the minds of many other people, had a very successful and acceptable policy. Of course, some people criticised it but it is still the envy of many nations throughout the world. 
This afternoon the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  posed many questions. They are questions that many people throughout this country and throughout the world are asking. Intending migrants want to know where they stand. Does the Minister realise that his decisions today, while it is true they can be changed tomorrow, will affect the living standards for decades, generations and no doubt forever. Australia is made up of migrants and dependants of migrants. Until the present we have had a homogeneous population. I wonder for the future. Unfortunately, some people cannot understand the difference between white Australia and a homogeneous population. Practically every country in the world which has no homogeneous population is in trouble. Unless we declare where we are going on some of these issues we could be in trouble. 
It is true that we have admitted nonEuropeans, but we have done it successfully. We have limited the entry to those who will integrate and can be integrated into our way of life. Of course we have been selective and surely this is our right. No person will admit into his own home a person he does not want to be admitted. We as a nation have this right. We have naturally had a very strong leaning towards our British friends but today the Minister is leaning away from this position. I think I am correct in saying that he has placed an arbitrary date on British people residing in Australia to register to receive the full Australian benefits. Should these British people fail to register by a certain date they will have to go through the normal process of taking out naturalisation papers. No doubt the Minister will interject to indicate whether I am correct or otherwise. 
In other words you are now starting to down grade the British people. Surely this is breaking the traditions. I think it was only last week that the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  raised some important questions. Like the honourable member for Lyne, I too have had many cases of a similar nature brought to my attention. They involve people who are being discriminated against for various reasons. One man cannot pass the employment test and yet a person is prepared to sponsor him, give him a home and give him employment. There are numerous things that one could say on occasions such as this and I regret that I have only 10 minutes to cover some of the points. The whole situation is confusing. I have a Press cutting from the Melbourne 'Age' of February 1973 which has the headline; 'Little Nancy might be coming back.' It states: 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  said last night: 'If she's still as nice as she was when we deported her when she was five, I'll be delighted to welcome her back.' 
What sort of a policy is that if he will welcome her back because she looks nice? Another headline in the 'Age' of 6 March 1973 stated 'Grassby Gets Tougher'. The big man gets tough. The 'Age' of 25 February 1974 carried this heading 'Minister "encourages illegal migrants" '. What a heading! The Bulletin' of 23 March 1974  -  it was released today - contains the heading '30,000 in migrant shambles'. Perhaps the Minister for Immigration and some of his colleagues can answer some of the questions which these headlines raise. A heading in the Melbourne Sun-Pictorial' of 23 May 1973 reads Grassby: Migrant check to stay'. We want to follow up some of these reports because they are a little conflicting. The headline BHP is banned from recruiting migrants' appeared in the 'Australian' of 16 June 1973. Another headline in the 'Australian' of 15 August 1973 stated 'Towns to pick migrants: Plan will let locals find own settlers'. The Melbourne 'Age' of 10 July 1973 carried this headline 'Come home call to our exiles'. Where are we going? The headline ' "Migrant goal is too low" says Hamer' appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 13 August 1973. A headline in the 'Australian' of 13 April 1973 stated 'Migrant policy "causing industrial chaos" '. No wonder the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  entered this debate today. 
The 'Australian Financial Review' of 20 February 1974 had this headline '"Social" immigration for a balanced Australian society'. The headline The Al and Gough black and white show' appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 13 February 1974. This matter was becoming serious at that stage. The Hobart 'Mercury' of 11 January 1974 asked this question in its headline How white Australia?' A headline in the National Times' of 20 August 1973 reads: If White Australia is dead Immigration isn't saying'. But the Minister for Immigration has plenty to say. Why has he not answered this? The 'Age' of 15 September 1973 carried this headline ' "The future for Australia is black or multi-coloured .... if our people don't realise it and stop  Mr Grassby's  enthusiasm for coloured immigrants" '. Where will we finish if we adopt this approach? The last headline which I wish to quote appeared in the 'Age' of 22 January 1974. It reads 'Door open for US Negroes'. This is a very serious situation. The article beneath the headline states: 
American Negroes would be allowed to migrate to Australia under new plans drawn up by - the Federal Immigration Department. 
The plans provide for the Federal Government to launch an intensive drive for skilled migrant workers in the United States. 
They represent a bold change from the 20-year-old Liberal-Country Party policy of refusing to advertise for migrants in the United States for fear of Negro applicants. 
But it is ALP policy to have a non-discriminatory immigration scheme. 
I wonder just where we are moving. What has happened to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)?  I think earlier this afternoon the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  in his remarks referred to the Minister for Services and Property because he had a very definite policy on immigration. I pay a tribute to the first Minister for Immigration, the late Arthur Calwell. As I said in this House 2 weeks ago, he would be classified as one of the most successful Ministers for Immigration, whereas the opposite applies to the present Minister for Immigration. 
In conclusion, I say to the Minister for Immigration: On these issues the best way to fight fire is to prevent it. If he is not prepared to adopt a line of prevention on these issues, he must suffer the consequences. We must remember that migrants are not sheep. They are people with feelings. In the main they are dedicated in their efforts to make a success of themselves in Australia. This is the thing we have to remember at all times. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I do not wish to delay the passage of this Bill especially as the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  outlined briefly the Opposition's attitude to this measure. There are one or two questions I should like the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  to answer. I refer first to the alterations proposed to the various rates of pensions or allowances covered by this Bill. The totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate will be increased by $4.50, from $55.60 to $60.10, the intermediate rate by $2.25 and the 100 per cent or general rate pension by $3. I want to know why there is a variation in the amounts. I can appreciate and understand the increased amount for the TPI pensioner but as the intermediate rate pension is higher than the general rate pension why is it being increased by only $2.25? 
The honourable member for Indi compared the present situation where repatriation benefit rates are to be tied to 50 per cent of the minimum wage with general social service benefits which are tied to average male weekly earnings. The Minister for Defence may recall that on the last occasion on which the House was considering repatriation matters I raised this matter but did not receive a reply. Why should there be this difference? Why is it that social service benefits are tied to or are based on average weekly male earnings? The Government has been most vocal on its decision to tie such benefits to average male weekly earnings but with repatriation benefits that procedure is disregarded and such benefits are tied to a minimum wage. It is for the Minister for Defence to make the position clear by way of answer. Many people want to know why there is a difference. Does this mean that the Government is trying to establish a different type of rating for repatriation benefits? I question the future of the intermediate rate pension. The mere fact that it is being downgraded in the proposed increases suggests that it is being given a lower priority by 'he Government. If that is so, what will this mean in the long term? 
In considering this matter I am reminded of the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare concerning repatriation. I am sure that the Minister for Defence is interested also in this report as 
I believe he is of the same opinion as I am on this matter. I believe that the report should be burned because the recommendations contained therein are not in line with the requests of most political parties and certainly not in accord with the views of branches of the Returned Services League throughout Australia. 
That may be so, nevertheless it is a report from a parliamentary committee. Some people have suggested that the recommendations should be implemented. I should say in fairness to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  that I read the other day that he said to some exservicemen's organisation that he was not interested in implementing the report. However I do not think we can accept that; we want more of an assurance than that contained in a statement made outside the Parliament to an ex-servicemen's organisation. All we know is what we read in the newspapers. I should like someone in this chamber to say where the Government stands because it is not sufficient for someone outside the Parliament to say what will happen because Caucus can completely change such a decision. We are aware of instances of decisions being changed by Caucus and that is why 1 want an assurance from the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation in this chamber. Some of the recommendations in the report are not acceptable to many people outside the Parliament. Recommendation 1, for example, states that: 
Payment of repatriation pensions be made through the Social Security Department and that the Repatriation Commission be retained to handle the determining of claims, reviews and administration. 
That is all very simple and it does not mean much to the average person, but it certainly could be the first nail in the coffin of the Repatriation Department. I make that clear. The recommendation relating to lump sum payments seems good when one first reads it but the important question, as I see it, is whether this is the beginning of the breakdown of the whole system of paying individuals what I classify as their entitlements due to incapacities they may have suffered in rendering service. Another recommendation suggests that: 
Repatriation hospitals be integrated into a National General Hospital Scheme. 
What does this mean? In the past an exserviceman has had the right to treatment in a hospital of his own choice. This recommendation could result in a watering down of that right. I appreciate that there are bed shortages in hospitals and that full use should be made of the beds available, but exservicemen should retain that right. Finally, and I do not want to take up any more time- 
I am advised to keep going and I am advised to sit down. In response to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I might say that I am a little surprised that he should have made the decisions he made earlier in the day. After all there is no good reason why some of these measures should not have been introduced before last evening. It may be true that the Government is experiencing difficulty in getting Bills prepared, but in my opinion that is no excuse. There is no reason why these Bills should have to be passed by ' both chambers in considerably less than 24 hours. I think the Government should be thankful that the Opposition is co-operating. It is not right that the Minister for Labour should come into this House, as the honourable member for Indi said- 
-i-He did and, as the honourable member said, the Minister knows nothing about repatriation. There are plenty of members on the Government benches who make a farce of these things. They are two-faced. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  for instance, spoke about taking politics out of pensions. I have never heard anything so two-faced. I could use stronger words,  Mr Speaker,  but you would rule me out of order if I did so. Nevertheless, that is how I feel about it. The honourable member for Robertson believes that the Government can introduce a scheme so that in future there will be no decisions made in this place. This is a ridiculous situation. No matter what sort of pension scheme we have in operation the Parliamentary Government must have the power to alter, amend, reject or accept what it likes when it likes. It is a whole lot of nonsense for the honourable member for Robertson to say that the Labor Party is going to take politics out of pensions. After all, someone must make decisions. How would you tie this to a formula unless it is introduced by the 
Government of the day. Therefore I say that the question raised by the honourable member was certainly an absurd one. It is one that should be disregarded. 
I would again appeal to the Minister to answer some of the questions that I have raised today because there are many people outside the Parliament who want to know the answers. I think it was the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bouchier)  who referred to the various types of pensions in relation to taxation and means tests. I think most people appreciate the difference between a repatriation pension and a Service pension as far as the means test is concerned. It is no use my making any pronouncement because I do not have the authority that the Minister has on behalf of the Government. Some people are confused about the provisions of the altered means test which affect pensioners over 75 years of age - and we hope it will not be too long before the age limit is reduced to 65. I would like the Minister to explain this to me. Other than that, I and my colleagues support this Bill. 
Now that the House has come to order after a rather interesting afternoon and evening, might I commence my remarks by saying that I am disappointed with some of the actions that have been taken by senior members of the Government. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  must realise that if he wishes to get Government policies and desires implemented he can only do so with co-operation from the Opposition. If the Government is not prepared to co-operate with the Opposition, it has only itself to blame. 
Tonight I wish to raise a question in relation to the Post Office. It deals with the closing down of manual telephone exchanges as a result of the introduction of automatic dialling. First and foremost I do not want to see a situation where, because of closure, services cease. That does not mean that I am opposed to the upgrading of telephone services. Other members of the Australian Country Party and I believe that upgrading of such services is slow enough and anything one does that is inclined' to hinder the upgrading of services will not be in the best interests of all. The sooner we can speed up an improvement in services the better. There are 3 problems associated with upgrading - materials, manpower and money. My concern relates to the closing of telephone exchanges and its effect on the community. When automatic telephone dialling is introduced, naturally a lot of alterations are made and there are a lot of teething problems. For instance, elderly people have difficulty because the system is new and it takes them a while to adjust. 
Another worry, which is of equal if not more importance, is the future of the telephonists who have in many instances served the Department for a long period. These girls will eventually be thrown on the scrap heap because no jobs are available for them. In fairness to the Department, I must say that I believe that it does everything possible to assist in such cases. No doubt this assistance is appreciated. The Department offers the telephonist a transfer and reasonable superannuation but certainly nothing out of the box. It is not always practicable for telephonists to transfer from one exchange to another. I think immediately of married women who, for obvious reasons, cannot move to an exchange which the Department thinks would suit them. They must consider their families, their husbands and the occupations of their husbands. Naturally this creates a lot of inconvenience. In most cases it is an impossible situation. The girls finish up without a job. 
The Department has on hand an inquiry section in the major parent exchanges, and the subscribers can ring this section to seek all the information which is necessary. I believe that this system has proved satisfactory. My guess is that because of the changing pattern in the Department the demand for information in a lot of these areas is increasing, not decreasing. I think again of the elderly. I think of the new complicated telephone directory. I believe that over a period the system will prove to be satisfactory, but in the interim people are having a lot of difficulty. Naturally there are many inquiries. 
The Department, the Government, the Minister or someone has decided to centralise these inquiry centres which are known as manual assistance centres. The Department is centralising, not decentralising, which is the trend in everything else. We have heard a lot of propaganda from the Government about what it is doing to decentralise, but these assistance centres are typical examples of how the Government is centralising. For instance, western Victoria looks like finishing up with only 2 manual assistance centres, at Ballarat and Bendigo. There will certainly be centres in other parts of Victoria. I am informed that there will be a total of 9 assistance centres in Victoria. Anyone living a long way from these centres must telephone long distances, from perhaps 100 or 200 miles away. One might say that this makes no difference, that the people still dial a number, but the important point is that the local girls have the knowledge. As a result, a subscriber is more likely to get a satisfactory answer from a local girl. 
My real complaint is that all these parent exchanges will eventually close. There are many in my electorate, apart from those in my neighbouring electorates. I think of cities such as Maryborough. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  knows of the position in Maryborough because he has received a deputation from people in that city. I think of centres in Horsham and Ararat, plus the centres in other smaller towns. They will be done away with over a period. I am suggesting to the Postmaster-General that if this trend continues the Department must give the telephonists ample notice. 1 have spelt out this matter to him fairly clearly, and I know that he has listened intently. I am not too sure of the action which he will take. I am not an engineer, I do not profess to know a great deal about the engineering angle of the Department, but no one has yet convinced me that it is impossible to retain on an economic basis these assistance centres in most of the major parent exchanges, without having to centralise them in places such as Ballarat, Geelong and Bendigo. The situation is arising where telephonists will not have an opportunity to remain in their local districts, and naturally they will not be able to give local information that they know only too well. As I said previously, it is a matter of working on the principle of centralisation, not decentralisation. 
In conclusion, I appeal to the PostmasterGeneral to look at the situation not necessarily only in my electorate or in Victoria but also throughout the whole of the Commonwealth. As I have said, I cannot see any great advantage to the Department in the centralising of these assistance exchanges. In the long term it will create a lot of ill-feeling amongst telephonists, elderly people and those people who perhaps are not quite as capable as the general run of the public and find great difficulty in transferring over to a new system that they know little about. I ask the PostmasterGeneral to look at this matter. I am sure that he is a very co-operative Minister. I have received quite a deal of co-operation from him over a period of time, although I do not always agree with his decisions. However, I believe that he could be very sympathetic regarding the case that I have raised. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  just made the accusation that he heard an interjection from members of the Country Party to the effect that we were starting another Forrest Place. As far as I am concerned - and I think that I can speak of all members of the Country Party - there was no interjection from this side of the House at all in regard to Forrest Place. Rather, the interjection was made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who is a member of the party to which the honourable member for Adelaide belongs. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It is not for the Chair to adjudicate whether disorderly interjections were made or not. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an announcement that superphosphate is now being rationed in Victoria? Is he aware that this action is entirely as a result of the Government's decision to announce prematurely the cessation of the fertiliser subsidy? Did the Prime Minister say, as reported, that the State governments could, if they so desired, introduce their own superphosphate bounties? Finally, will he reconsider the decision in the light of the case put forward as to the effect this hastily taken decision will have not only on the primary producers but also on the community as a whole, which includes the housewife who will have to pay more for her agriculturally produced foodstuffs? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the means test free age pension, what was the final date for the receipt of applications entitling an applicant to back-payment. 
What was the actual close-off date for backdating purposes. 
How many applications were received in each State on 2 January 1974. 
How many of the applicants in part (3) received back-dated payments. 
I rise to speak this evening with mixed feelings after hearing the comments of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  in answer to a couple of speakers from either side of the. House in relation to the future of the wool industry. I appreciate his concern and I think woolgrowers, generally speaking, would have appreciated the value of his statement when he said that the Government would be backing the Australian Wool Corporation for this week. I am not interested in this week alone. I am interested in the long term. It may be just a matter of a few words, but the Minister said that he had heard no decision to the contrary. To me that is not quite good enough. 
I am not blaming the Minister because I realise he is only deputising for the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who is in another place. I would like the Minister who represents the Minister for Agriculture in the next 24 hours to get an assurance from the Minister for Agriculture - if he cannot obtain an assurance from him he should get it from the Prime Minister - so that we can assure the industry that the Corporation will continue to buy. As I have said, I am saying this in no way in criticism of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, but rather I am concerned at the interpretation outside this House. I think it is just about time that the Government had a close look at the overall situation. 
After all, it is not only the wool industry that is in trouble. There are other industries as well. I immediately think of the meat industry. It is in trouble. I think the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  spoke on the comparison of prices last week. They were showing concern. The price of stock on the hoof had dropped dramatically. I have heard ministers in this place say that since their Party has been in Government it has done all sorts of things. They say that it has increased our trade with other countries. I have heard the Prime Minister say that things have never been so good for the farmer. I have heard the Prime Minister say that the public should not be concerned. He has said that the economy of this nation is sound. There is not a worry in the world. 
That is right. Two of our major exports, meat and wool, are both going through very delicate periods. I hope that the Minister who is representing the Minister for Agriculture will be able to take up this matter with him so that we can get some sort of assurance that the Government will change its attitude to people who are in difficulties. I refer to primary industry as a whole. After all, this Government is not very keen on devaluation, but this is another angle which the Government must consider. 
I believe this House should be indebted to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for raising such a very important issue. It is a tragedy that under the Standing Orders he is not permitted to expand his thoughts on this most important subject because this is not the first occasion on which we have seen some Government supporters trying to interfere with the general free flow of industry. I do not wish to spend a great deal of time this evening outlining all the effects that the decisions of this Government have had on industry both primary and secondary but I believe that the Government has done an enormous disservice particularly to primary industry. 
There is no need for me to spell out what has happened in recent times. We know how legislation which emanated from the last 2 Budgets has crippled some industries. We heard tonight another illustration of this but I am not permitted to speak on that matter. Some months ago we were concerned when the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  made a very strong move to buy in and try to cripple the meat industry. He tried to introduce some sort of fixed price system whereby the housewife could get meat at a reduced rate. This, of course, failed as far as the housewife was concerned but it could have been a major contributing factor to sapping the confidence of the meat industry as a whole. One has only to look at the sales of stock in various markets today. Some quality meats are being reduced in price by one-third whilst other not so palatable meats have been reduced by at least 100 per cent and in some cases, it has been reported, by 200 per cent. These are just some examples. 
Another important export industry appears to be running along very smoothly until we look at the trouble on the waterfront. Because of disturbances on the waterfront - about which this Government has evidently done nothing - the wheat industry is suffering a delay in shipping. Wheat growers expected to receive a second advance of about 20c per bushel on last year's crop but they have now been informed that there will be an unknown delay. Because of reduced prices for wool and because of reduced prices for meat many wheat growers were dependent on receiving the extra advance of about 20c per bushel. They will not get this payment for some considerable time. This delay is creating chaos in the wheat industry. This chaos, has passed on to business houses. If I had the opportunity and sufficient time I could enlighten this House on many cases of hardship all of which have been caused by a lack of finance being made available to primary producers. Another angle to be considered is the credit squeeze. We could expand on all these angles at some length if only we had the time. However, I believe it is up to the Government to make some positive move. I know my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  is very concerned about the delay in wheat payments. I know that he is taking some action to try to get some relief for primary producers. The real reason why I rose this evening was to deal with a subject about which I read in the Melbourne 'Sun' of today's date. It is headed: 
The article states: 
Rhodesia was supplying most of the funds for racehate campaigns in Australia,  Mr Al  Grassby said in the Philippines yesterday. 
I do not know what other honourable members in this chamber think of that item - I do not intend to read all of it - but there are certain angles and certain portions in it which really concern me greatly. Because of his policies in this House a few weeks ago this gentleman was rightly displaced. To my mind he has no right to be making some of the statements he has made, unless the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is prepared to say that the former Minister has that right. The end of this article states: 
He warned that any Australian Ministers of State, public servants or Government workers would be sacked immediately if they sought to promote discrimination on the grounds of race, colour or creed. 
I do not know, but I am led to believe by Press statements and, I think, a statement by the Prime Minister that  Mr Grassby  has been appointed as an ombudsman for migration in this country at a reported salary of $26,000- odd. 
Yes, of course that would be plus expenses. I realise that. No doubt expenses could be another amount in the vicinity of the amount I have just mentioned. I do not know. It all depends on the staff he has. I am told that he has offices in various parts of his former electorate. I do not know on what grounds he has those either. But I would like to know from the Prime Minister under what authority this man went to the Philippines and say that if we, as government employees, public servants or Ministers literally spoke out of turn we would be sacked immediately? Is he a spokesman for the Australian Government? 
A roving Prime Minister, I am reminded by an interjector.  Mr Grassby  would like to be Prime Minister but I am quite sure that he will have to change his tactics, his policies and his principles if he even wants to be re-elected to this House. I certainly do not think he will get back the seat which was taken over by his successor just a few months ago. I believe that Australia has been a fortunate nation for a long time. We have had a homogeneous population in this country, perhaps unlike any other country. When I speak on this subject no doubt there will be some people, even honourable members in this House, who will declare that I am a racist. All I say is that I do not want to see discrimination in this country. It is like a fire - one does not wait until it gets into the bush before one tries to stop it. The right time to act is at the early stages. We have had a homogeneous population and let us keep it that way. 
I recall visiting South East Asia not so many years ago with a parliamentary delegation. We were in Malaysia. The then Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman met the delegation. I recall very vividly that this man, after discussing many subjects, said: 'Australia is very fortunate that it has no racial problems. I wish my country was in the same position as yours. My only recommendation to you people from Australia is never alter your policy'. That came from a very successful Prime Minister in that area. This matter concerns me as I know it concerns many thousands of people outside this chamber. It is all very well to say that we will have no discrimination; we will open the doors to all and sundry. But then, of course, sooner or later there will be discrimination. There has to be discrimination. To my mind it is completely unbelieveable for a former Minister of this Government to suggest that countries like Rhodesia are financing a racehate campaign. It is an irresponsible statement and one which I believe the Prime Minister should nip in the bud. He should explain to this House what it all means. Does the Prime Minister agree with the former Minister for Immigration? Until such time as he is prepared to answer that question, he will have to go down as a contributing factor to racism in this country. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Northern Territory in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Now that the Government has refused to intervene in a shipping dispute that has had far reaching effects on wheat payments that are so urgently needed in this time of financial crisis - as the Minister for Transport told the honourable member for Mallee yesterday - will the Minister take up with the Minister for Agriculture the problems of delayed wheat payments with a view to trying to alleviate the serious financial position of primary producers created, first, by government policy and, secondly, by another industrial dispute? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Is an immigration office to be established in the Electoral Division of Riverina. 
If so, what is the purpose of the office. 
When and by whom was the decision made to establish the office. 
Is there a similar office in any other electorates; if so, which ones. 
5 ) What staff will be employed in the office. 
What is the expected cost of staffing. 
Will it be under his direct control; if not, who will control it. 
Does the building belong to a Government Department; if not, who owns it and what rent will be paid per week. 
Will the office be used for any other purpose. 
-I will not keep the House very long. I am not terribly impressed with an interjection I think I heard from the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  that he wants to rush this Bill through. Though I would like to support the principle, at the same time I support my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  in the comments he has made. I compliment him on his speech in view of the very short notice he had to prepare for it. I am sorry there has not been an opportunity for more honourable members on this side of the chamber to speak on the subject. I agree with the honourable member that we are not opposing the Bill as such, but I believe this is an opportunity for us to ask a few simple questions. What is the real reason for this measure? I have read the comments the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made last night and I have read the Minister's second reading speech. To be frank, I do not think they explain the reasons for the legislation. Last night the Treasurer said that the national broadcasting and television service is a service provided to the community as a whole and the Government believes that the cost of the service should therefore be met from general taxation revenues rather than through a licence fee. That is all right, but how do you associate that with the measure introduced last night by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in relation to increases in postal and telegraph charges? If one is a service, so is the other. The Minister said that from 1968 to 1971 under a Liberal Party-Country Party Government the fees raised met something like 75 per cent of the expenditure of the national broadcasting and television service and if we were to recover a similar percentage of expenditure today we would have to increase the fees by 50 per cent. I do not dispute that, but it seems rather odd that on the one hand we would have to increase fees to maintain the status quo but we will delete them, whereas on the other hand, when it comes to general telephone and postal charges, because we are running short of chips we have to increase them. 
To return to my original point, what is the real motive behind this? An amount of $50m or so in revenue will be lost. What effect will this have on the service provided by the various national television and radio stations? If we are going to reduce the service then I regret having to support the Bill. It is very easy for some honourable members to suggest that we are advancing tremendously in this field and that colour television is just around the corner. There are numerous places throughout Australia which have not got black and white TV, let alone colour TV. I venture to say that there are many places receiving reasonable TV coverage today which will not receive colour TV when it is introduced. What effect will the reduction of the income of the Department have? Can we have an assurance from the Government, from the Minister, that despite the reduction of $50m in income the service will continue? With the honourable member for Cowper, I support this issue, with a certain amount of reservation. If it is good enough to have a reduction in one section of the Postmaster-General's Department on the ground of service to the community then it is good enough to have it in another section. Instead of having an increase in postal and telephone charges there ought to be a reduction by perhaps a similar amount. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I do not wish to talk about the environment, and I hope when I resume my seat the Minister will not call me a humbug. He has implied that all members on this side of the House are humbugs. The subject I wish to bring before the House could be classified as one I should apologise for even introducing. It may appear to some people to be minor and of little effect for the future of this nation but by the time I conclude my comments I hope I can convince such people that the contrary is the position. Some months ago I wrote to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  on behalf of one of the municipalities in my electorate which was receiving a lot of complaints from primary producers in its area who could not secure supplies of steel points for agricultural machinery. As I said, this may appear to be an insignificant issue but to the primary producers who are desirous of securing these steel points for their agricultural machinery it is important. 
I shall quote from the letter I received only today from the Minister. I apologise to the Minister for not notifying him that I intended to raise this matter. In his letter he wrote: 
Enquiries by the Department of Manufacturing Industry confirm that despite increased production, local manufacturers have been unable to fully meet the demand from primary producers for steel points and have had to introduce quotas on deliveries to distributors. The major causes of the shortfall in supply have been, I understand, the very substantial increase in demands for these goods over recent times, and the inability of the manufacturers concerned to obtain increased supplies of the specialised steel for their production. 
That is not good enough. The Minister refers to a 'substantial increase in demand'. Why is there a demand? This is not a type of item that primary producers hoard. The demand exists because such articles cannot be purchased. The demand has been aggravated for 12 to 18 months. The Minister's letter continues: 
As you will be aware, there is a general shortage of steel products in Australia at this time. You will be aware that the Government has no powers to direct any industry to give preference in supply to particular customers or markets. However, the Government is in continuing contact with local steel producers and has received assurance that cases of genuine hardship are receiving special attention in respect of supplies. The industry's response earlier this year to the special needs of primary producers in flood devastated areas for fencing wire and steel fence posts is an example of priority being accorded in special circumstances. I assure you the Government is sympathetic to the needs of primary producers. 
With the aim of supplementing local supplies with imported products, the Australian Government has eased the criteria by which by-law entry into Australia is governed and has, where appropriate, authorised entry under by-law of goods for which such application has been made to the Department of Customs and Excise, so enabling raw materials and manufactured foods which are in short supply to be imported free of customs duty. Approvals have been granted to import certain categories of steel under these provisions. 
This is much appreciated, but it is not the answer. The letter concludes: 
I regret that I am unable to indicate more precisely when steel supplies will improve to the extent of resolving the associated shortages of steel points. It does seem, however, that the Australian steel industry is doing all it can to meet demand with available resources and that supplies are being allocated on an equitable basis. There have been some recent indications that the present high level of demand for steel may moderate in the near future. 
I am not blaming the Minister for not being able to supply steel points for, basically, wheat farmers. I am raising this matter tonight because I believe the issue goes far beyond the question of steel points. K goes far beyond the shortage of barbed wire, fencing wire, fencing posts and other commodities which are in big demand throughout Australia. One cannot buy materials. Why? 
I do not know what the honourable member means by a boom but I do know that if he were trying to secure some of these materials he would have difficulty in getting them. Why is this the position? I believe there are several reasons. I am somewhat inclined to direct my criticisms initially at the Prices Justification Tribunal which is very quick to point out that certain companies are making too much profit on certain goods and is knocking back applications for price increases. Naturally I think immediately of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd. There are plenty of people who say: 'Think of the millions of dollars profit BHP made last year. ' That does not mean a thing to me. I am not interested in its profit unless I know how its profit is related to the capital invested in it. I wonder what sort of dividend BHP is paying in relation to the total capital invested in it. I wonder how that dividend compares with present-day interest rates. 
I suppose if there is any one reason for a shortage of material it can be attributed to limited production. But why is there limited production? I suggest it is because there is a lack of confidence in certain sectors, including BHP, in expanding at a reasonable pace to maintain supplies. It is all very well to say that we can import goods but what we want is manufacturing in Australia. If anyone disputes my comments about lack of confidence by BHP one has only to read tonight's metropolitan Press and references therein to the share market. For the first time for many years BHP shares have fallen to a value below $5. 
Yes, BHP shares are down to $4.88. Not many weeks ago the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that he believed that BHP shares would be a good buy at $8. Today they are worth $4.88. It is just as well that not too many people listened to the Treasurer on that occasion. Unfortunately many of us had to listen to him last night. However in a period of about 18 months BHP shares have dropped from $14 to less than $5. This is a reason for steel shortages throughout Australia. I have raised the matter of steel points for agricultural machinery but my comments are not limited to agricultural machinery; they relate to many aspects of steel production. If the Government continues on its present lines we will continue to find ourselves in a position where we will not be able to purchase the steel we require. 
As I said earlier, I apologise for not notifying the Minister that I intended to speak on this subject tonight. Nevertheless I. do not expect an answer from him because, after all, he had carried out a certain amount of investigation. However I repeat what I said a moment ago: This is not a case of easing import restrictions or bringing goods in under customs by-laws free of duty. That is not the answer. In Australia we need to develop industry and the only way this can be done is by creating confidence. I have mentioned BHP. It is a firm whose confidence should be encouraged. Lest any honourable member is critical of my comments and suggests that I am trying to protect BHP I hasten to assure such member that that is far from being the fact. I am not personally interested in BHP but I am interested in making sure that manufacturing industries, including BHP and other firms, have sufficient confidence to enable them to expand to meet the demands of our expanding production. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has made a legitimate request to the Minister, but it appears that the Minister is not even going to attempt to reply. I appeal to him to give the honourable member for Darling Downs an assurance in relation to the matter he raised in clause 8. Surely we can get some sort of assurance from the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. If we cannot get that assurance as members of the Opposition where do we go? Are we to be ignored by the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture? Will the Minister please give the member for Darling Downs an assurance in response to his request? 
-I ask for leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
On behalf of honourable members on this side of the House and in particular those honourable members who have served on the Committee for the first time, I believe it is only right and proper that I should make a very brief comment. I say right at the outset that my comment is not in the form of a report disagreeing from that presented by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In actual fact only 2 members of the Joint Committee on Prices were members of the Committee when it studied the question of soaps and detergents. The 2 members I refer to are the  Chairman, Mr Hurford,  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  This meant that all the new members had to operate under great difficulty in trying to keep abreast of what was going on. We did not have the opportunity of being present, naturally, when evidence was being received on this matter. However, later on we did, of course, study the transcript. 
As I said earlier, members on this side of the House do not want to oppose in any way the report that has been presented; rather we agree with it. I am quite confident that some of our members made worthwhile contributions to the report. They certainly amended it in some places and, I believe, improved it. We support the report in principle with the slight reservation and in the full knowledge that we did not have quite the same opportunity as did the original members to hear the evidence received on this subject. 
-I would like to make a few comments in relation to the measure before the House. I would like to commence my remarks by referring to that paragraph of his second reading speech in which the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made reference to the fact that as far back as the Premiers Conference of 7 June it was known publicly that the Post Office's appropriation in the Budget would be held at last year's level of $385m. That is the first point he made. A little later on the Minister said: 
After close study, the Government has also decided that it would not be appropriate to cut Post Office capital investment by some further $30m and let existing telephone applicants increase by 40,000 to 163,000. That would mean a telecommunications engineering construction program 6 per cent below the 1973-74 level of effort. 
Why did the Minister want to refer to the cut of $30m and then decide that he was not going to make a cut? That reminds me of the husband who was praised because he gave up belting his wife. There is no need to mention such a thing. I cannot understand what it all means and why the Minister has referred to it. As for keeping the appropriation at the same level as last year, I challenge the Minister to indicate with what other departments the appropriation has remained at the same low level as the previous year. I do not know of any. Although I have not studied the position I would venture to say that there would be very few, if any. It would appear that the Special Minister of State has been successful in his original goal to make every section of the Postmaster-General's Department pay its way. I do not agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in this respect. There are certain sectors of the Postmaster-General's Department that must of necessity automatically be a cost against the rest of the Department, or if you like, the taxpayers. 
Basically this Bill, like many others, is a slug against users of the telephone and postal services. There is no disputing that. It seeks to increase considerably many charges. I cannot accept the statement by the Special Minister of State that if the Senate had passed the original measure some two or three months ago it would not have been necessary to impose further increases. It seems strange that because the Senate did not accept the proposed increases of a few months ago the cost of telephone connections should go up automatically by 25 per cent. The same thing applies as far as telephone rentals are concerned. 
As I said a moment ago, this Bill is a slug against all telephone and postal users. Similar legislation was blocked in the Senate on a previous occasion. There are many people outside this Parliament who would like to see it blocked again, but, being a Budget measure, that cannot be done. Is it possible that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or someone else in the Government wants to get the Government into a position where it can go to the people again by forcing another double dissolution? Is that one of the reasons why the Special Minister of State has put forward this proposition at this stage? 
Let us have a look at the proposed increases. The postage rate for an ordinary letter is to be increased from 7c to 10c. That is going to be a terrific slug on those people who use the postal service considerably. The cost of telephone calls is to rise from 4.75c to 6c. That is a pretty high percentage rise, I can appreciate the practical side of increasing public telephone charges insofar as the use of coins are concerned, but it is a pretty severe slug to increase the charge from 5c to 10c. That will be done over a period of time, depending on the rate of conversion. 
Let us have a look at the telephone rental situation. The rental charged for an ordinary private telephone is to be increased from $55 to $65 and for a business telephone from $55 to $85. One automatically includes in the business sector the primary producer, unless he can declare that the telephone is used predominantly for social calls, that he does not wish to have his name included in a telephone directory as a primary producer but as  Mr Joe  Blow, and that he does not make a claim in respect of his telephone as far as any taxation deductions are concerned. All I can say to the primary producers on this point is that they ought to have a very close look at their financial situation. It may be advantageous to them to declare themselves in such a way. I have spoken to lots of primary producers about making claims for telephone expenses for taxation purposes and I have been told by many of them that the opportunity to make such claims does not mean a great deal to them because they are not paying any tax, thanks to the present Government, as they have not been able to show a profit although they have shown profits in previous years. 
When one looks at some of the new charges one will find that a substantial increase is involved in many cases. If one compares the existing rates with the new rates one will find any amount of instances where the increase involved is 50 per cent and in some cases 100 per cent. In certain instances it is 300 per cent. A comparison of some of the present charges with the charges imposed a few years ago by the Liberal-Country Party Government will reveal that many of the people who will now have to pay a telephone rental of $85 were paying in the vicinity of, I think, only $27 at that time. That is a substantial increase. All of these things are happening at the same time as the Postmaster-General's Department has been reducing services. I do not want to be personal insofar as individuals in the Department are concerned. I believe, as I have said in this chamber before, that there are many very loyal and sincere members of the PostmasterGeneral's Department who are prepared to do everything that they are asked to do and do it very efficiently. It is because of the overall policy of the Government that they are directed to follow that they cannot provide the services they used to be able to provide. 
The Postmaster-General's Department has become so removed from being a service department that it is almost a second taxation department. That is what it appears to be to many people. The service formerly provided has been whittled away, slowly but surely. I recall what happened not so very long ago when the first move was made against Saturday morning operations. The 3 hours trading that we used to have of a Saturday morning was reduced to one hour. That one hour was vital and important because it gave the personnel an opportunity in many instances to sort mails and to send them on their way. There are any number of illustrations which I can give today of mail being posted as late as Thursday of one week which is not delivered until Tuesday of the next week within the same State. 
I am referring now to Victoria, which is not a very big State. It should not take very long for a letter to get from one side of it to the other. But I can give illustrations today if required of mail being posted on a Thursday afternoon and not delivered before Monday and in some isolated cases Tuesday of the following week. Yet the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  criticised the country people for demanding an adequate postal service. I wonder how many of his constituents would demand something better if they had mails posted on Thursdays and not delivered to their destination until Tuesday of the next week. This is a very poor situation as I see it. 
What else has happened? I turn to telephone connections. I regret to have to say that in many instances there have been extended delays. I think of the country automatic telephone exchanges which, as I said, almost came to a standstill. That is not quite right, but it appears that in my area they have slowed down. At the same time the costs for upgrading purposes to many of the subscribers has been substantial. I think my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  or the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)-  it was probably both of them- have referred in this House to the individual cost of installing a telephone in some rural areas. 
Of course it is. It runs into not only a few dollars or a few hundred dollars but in some cases thousands of dollars. The honourable member for Shortland was laughing a little while ago while the previous Postmaster-General referred to the issue and said that in some cases it would be cheaper to buy the farms than to install telephones on them. What a ridiculous situation. 
That may be so too, but he certainly does not have much sympathy for people outside the metropolitan areas. I very reluctantly have to support this Bill. I know that it will have a substantial effect on many people throughout the length and breadth of this country. I think it was the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who referred to these increased costs being inflationary. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  tried to pooh-pooh the idea. Anyone who has any business sense at all can see that if costs such as telephone charges are increased this must of necessity be an extra cost which in turn must be inflationary. 
The position is the same with the whole Budget. I know that I am not allowed to speak about the Budget, but the whole Budget, in my mind, because of its increased expenditure, will be a very big factor that will contribute to inflation. If Government expenditure goes up by 32 per cent surely that is heading in the direction of a 32 per cent increase in inflation. 
I say again that I reluctantly support these Bills knowing that because they are Budget measures I have no alternative. I know that they will be a teriffic slug on many country people as are the previous increases introduced by this Government. I think they are unjust. Despite what the Vernon report might say, it has given little consideration to the all-important issues of inflation and decentralisation. They would be the two vital considerations. 
-Being a very charitable type, I commence my remarks by saying that the 2 Government speakers this evening made the very best with very poor material. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  commenced his speech by claiming great credit for securing export sales of wheat. 
He went very close to it. He criticised the previous government because it could not find markets overseas, but today we have them. Therefore, if that is not claiming credit I do not know what is. But the honourable member is not prepared to tell us about the lack of demand today for wool and meat. If he is to take credit on one issue, please let him take what goes with the other. The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  gave us a very interesting address too. He talked about the many things in the wheat stabilisation scheme of which he was proud. He said he was proud of the fact that it would cover all the wheat that was grown in Australia, but he did not say by how much. He talked about this legislation as a major innovation. He talked about the first advance on wheat, but he did not tell us what sort of interest rates the wheat industry pays today. He did not remind us of the percentage that the present Government is paying on the first advance, as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  reminded him of the percentage being paid under this scheme as compared with what was paid by the previous Government. The previous Government paid a first advance averaged over 5 years, of more than 80 per cent of the final payment to wheat growers. In the first year of this new plan the first advance is expected to be less than 50 per cent. 
-Only 50 per cent. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro made great play about the satisfaction of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation with this plan. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  made it very clear that the Federation accepted the plan rather reluctantly. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro criticised quotas. This again is the suggestion of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. Why did he not praise the Federation on that point, too ? 
The difference between this plan and the previous plan, on the surface, appears insignificant; but on a close scrutiny one will find a very big difference. It removes the guaranteed price and substitutes what I call a cushioning price. The returns to growers will tend to follow the market both up and down. When the market is down we in this Party are very concerned on behalf of the wheat industry. The issues in this Bill appear minor today, but when times are tough and prices are low these minor items could well be major issues which would have adverse effects on the return to growers. The reason I say this is simply that at present the reduced quantity of wheat thoughot the world has tended to lift the price considerably. Government members take credit for this fact. 
If one compares this increased price and the general cost of production today with the position some years ago, one will agree that at present the price is not excessive. I ask: What article can be purchased today for a figure less than double that of a few years ago? If it were just profitable 10 or 15 years ago, my guess is that it is no more profitable today. The only advantage is that wheat growers have increased their productivity more than have the growers in any other industry of which I know. Previous plans had a limited amount of wheat which came within the export guarantee, but the amount of the guarantee per bushel was unlimited. It was limited in quantity, but the finance was unlimited. Today in this proposal the quantity is unlimited but the amount of money is restricted. The postion is the reverse. Yet die Government is proud of this position. It means that there is a maximum of $30m a year. If $30m is spread over a crop for sale of $300m, it is only 10c a bushel, whereas previously the quantity was limited to 200 million bushels. But it could, if the price fell to a low level, mean even so much more in total as well as in the amount per bushel. For the 1967-68 pool the then Government paid out $42,869,000, and in respect of the year 1971-72 it paid out $40,131,000. I point out, however, that it is not the total figure that is so important but the guarantee in the event of the price falling below a reasonable figure. To my mind, that is the most important point to remember in relation to any plan. 
It is obvious that this plan, spread over 5 years, will be successful because, first of all, the growers have contributed $48m up to this time, before the actual scheme commences. There is $48m in the fund now. Because of the present ruling price it is expected that they will contribute a maximum of $30m this year. It is hardly likely, because of the present world shortage and the fact that the surplus accounts for only 22 million tons as compared with approximately SO million tons average over the last 10 years, that the price of the next harvest will fall below the minimum price at which growers are required to contribute. In theory the growers will have in the fund $78m, or maybe $80m. Under Part IV, clauses 30, sub-clause (S), the amount to be paid out in any one year is Limited to $30m. That being the case, irrespective of what the price may be that $80m must fall short by only $10m to cover growers for the remaining 3 years if the overseas price falls below the guaranteed price, which means in turn that the total commitment by the Commonwealth Government would be only $10m over a 5-years plan. That is how good this plan is. That is $2m a year. I almost use up that amount in my own electorate, let alone my own farm. So while it may appear to be a fine gesture by the Government to return any unused funds to the growers after the plan expires in 1979 it has really given back nothing because if the price drops to a minimum low for 3 years its total payout will be, I repeat, only $10m. If the price remains on a reasonable level the Government contributes nothing but makes a fine gesture by returning the growers' money to them. We are going to give them back their own money. In other words that is the only contribution the Government will make. 
So much for the 5-year period. If this plan is carried through in its entirety for the next 5 years and the export price runs out at below the guarantee, then the maximum contribution by the Government could not be above $30m a year or $80m over 5 years, which is the maximum the Government is expected to contribute in accordance with this Bill. It could well be said that this is a fine contribution. But it should be remembered that it is over a 10-year period, which would average out at $9m a year, during which time growers could well make a very large contribution to the supplying of cheap wheat for consumption in Australia, as was expounded by the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party earlier this evening. Their contribution to the supplying of cheap wheat is estimated at approximately $107m this year. That is on present day prices. The Government's contribution will be a total of $90m over 10 years. That is how unbalanced this plan is. If the price remains high for 10 years the growers ' contribution could well be about $ 100,000m plus. In return they would receive a guarantee, as I have said, of $80m of the taxpayers' money. But if the price remained high the Government would contribute nothing. 
Ail I can say to those people who suggest that this is a magnificent plan which will assist the wheat growing industry is that it is not. It is far from it. The growers will in the main contribute a lot more to the economy than they will receive in return. If inflation continues to rise in Australia at the present level and production costs continue to increase we could well see a situation by the time the plan expires in 5 years from now in which the value of their contribution of $30m will be minimised to the extent that it will be meaningless as far as a wheat stabilisation plan is concerned. Perhaps I should explain that by pointing out that if by chance costs double in 5 years or even 10 years the present $30m will be equivalent to about $ 1 5m on today's level, which makes the whole exercise of little value. 
It has been said that the industry and the State governments have accepted this proposal. That is true. But I join with the Deputy Leader of the Country Party in saying that they have done so very reluctantly. They had no alternative. It was a case of take it or leave it. The Government could not establish a 5-year plan in 10 months. It had to take 2 years to introduce it. The industry certainly put up a good fight. It obtained a few concessions, but it is really not very happy about the overall situation. Anyone on the Government side of the chamber who disagrees with me in that respect ought  to  go out and talk with the industry about the matter. Honourable members opposite should talk with the individual wheat growers and see what they think. 
To my mind too much has been made of 2 other issues, namely, the removal of quotas and the first advance. The first advance really means nothing because it is drawing upon the borrowing from the Reserve Bank, which must be repaid with interest. So the higher the first advance the longer the delay in the second advance and, naturally, the more the interest which will have to be repaid. I should add that the present rate of interest is somewhere about 60 per cent above the previous range obtained by the former Government. 
As regards the question of quotas, according to clause 25 of the Bill this is only a postponement on delivery while growers cannot supply the full amount of wheat. I do not disagree with this, but let it not be said that quotas are gone for all time- despite today's announcement that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has decided against quotas and has removed them for the time being. As soon as delivery reaches a figure that will use up the agreed upon loan from the Reserve Bank, no doubt quotas will be introduced, even under this Government. I make no apology for saying that. This legislation is acceptable because the wheat industry has no troubles at the present time. But if we return to a period when the world price for wheat is low, this plan will be of little value to the wheat industry. 
I wish to place a few of these things on record because I believe that the time will come when people will regret that they have accepted this wheat stabilisation plan. Many things have happened since this legislation was introduced by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The Australian Wheat Board has not been able to honour its earlier announcement to the effect that in August it would pay 20c a bushel on the 1973-74 wheat harvest. I am not critical of the Board for making that announcement. I believe that the  Chairman  of the Board may have been premature in making the announcement, but I think that he did it under pressure. I think that he did it in the interests of the industry in order to give people the opportunity to budget and also to give to those people who wanted to borrow money some confidence as to when they could expect to receive some money. But because of industrial unrest this payment of 20c a bushel was not forthcoming. So we have had to wait. 
The Bill also includes a new provision in clause 36(2). This sub-clause gives to the Australian 
Wheat Board authority to borrow from sources outside the normal channels of the rural credits division of the Reserve Bank. I will be quite frank about this: I do not like this sub-clause. Ever since there has been a wheat stabilisation plan we have always borrowed our money from the Reserve Bank. Why should we go outside the bank now? Will we find that because we have created the precedent of borrowing from outside the Reserve Bank, on some future occasion when the chips are a bit short somewhere the wheat industry will be encouraged to go outside the Reserve Bank and to borrow privately? Honourable members who have read today's newspapers will know that the Australian Wool Corporation applied to the private trading banks for some funds to keep the new wool plan financially sound. But what happened today? The request for funds was rejected by the private trading banks. Now I understand that the Government is to call a special Cabinet meeting to consider introducing legislation to enable the Government to provide the necessary funds. I do not know the finer details of the proposal, but that is what is proposed in principle. We could find ourselves in the position where the wheat industry would be expected to go to private enterprise to borrow money to meet the first advance payments. 
I support the broad principles of a wheat stabilisation plan. I realise that we are cornered and that we have no alternative. We either accept this plan or we reject it. If we reject it there will be no plan at all for the coming season. If that were the case, in the present financial situation I would naturally see chaos occurring throughout the wheat industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has moved an amendment along the lines that we accept this legislation but that we do so under a form of protest. In view of the shortness of time I will not read the proposed amendment again. Most honourable members recall the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party reading it. No doubt before a vote is taken on the second reading of this Bill the proposed amendment will be read again. I fully appreciate the concern of individual wheat growers throughout Australia. I appreciate the desire of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to get a plan, and its accepting therefore something very much against its principles. Therefore, I believe that we on this side of the House, being from 2 responsible Parties, have no alternative but to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. I hope that the Government will give consideration to it. 
-The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  commenced his remarks by saying that these measures are rather generous to the wool growers. He went on to explain how the 250c per kilo reserve price for 21 micron clean basis wool works out at 72c per lb greasy. All I want to say to the honourable member for Kingston is that all the theory in the world will not improve the actual selling price to the grower. If he were to cast his mind back to the results of the first week's trading under the new proposals he would remember that the actual sale price was in the vicinity of 50c. If the actual cost involved were taken off the price would be closer to 41c or 42c. I believe that the honourable member ruined the whole of his argument and that of some of the speakers before him by referring to the importance of the devaluation of the currency and saying that that is going to let the wool industry off the hook. 
This cognate debate covers almost every aspect of the wool industry, but I feel quite sure that basically the important issue is that of the wool plan announced by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on, I think, 27 August last. It is known as the floor price plan. It has been very interesting to note the various statements that have been made since the making of that announcement. I recall what happened in the very early days of that announcement being made. It is true that a number of industry leaders referred to the new plan as being a breakthrough and a milestone in the history of the wool industry. I think that there were plenty of people who welcomed the whole issue before they analysed it thoroughly. There were others, including myself, who just welcomed the principle. I have no arguments against that. But I, and I am quite sure many thousands of others, have never accepted the principle laid down of the price being set by the Government. I was absolutely staggered to hear the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  say on several occasions- firstly in a television program I saw one Sunday afternoon and then in response to an interjection yesterday by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)-  that this was an equitable price. I was absolutely staggered to hear that said by a man who represents a large wool growing area. I am mindful of the fact that the seat he holds is named 'Macarthur' because of the early introduction of merino sheep into that area by Macarthur. 
The figure of 250c per kilo is a very misleading one. I almost said that it was deliberately put out as a misleading figure, but I do not think that I should say that. I am not too sure whether it was deliberately put out to mislead, but the figure is, as I have said, very misleading and is not acceptable to the wool growers. Anyone who suggests that it is a reasonable figure does not understand the situation. One has to convert the 250c per kilo into real values compared with other prices and with ones that the people can understand. First and foremost 21 micron wool has been mentioned. It is a severing of the old principle of the wool count. Twenty-one micron wool is not average wool. The average is not up to the standard of 21 micron wool. I think I should make that point very clear. Only a small proportion of the wool produced in this country is 21 micron or better. The average is well below it. In the not so effective wool growing areas the standard is well below that figure. Naturally any wool that is of lesser standard than 21 micron standard will receive a lower price. 
The price is based on the weight per kilogram, which again is misleading to many people. Many people keep referring to the price of wool as though it is still weighed on the pounds basis of a few years ago. By converting the present figure to the old formula of pounds greasy one comes to light with a different price altogether. It should be always remembered that from the price quoted there is an automatic deduction of about 14 per cent to 14.5 per cent for such things as freight, insurance, handling charges, commission and the like as well as the increased levy of 5 per cent that is over and above the levy of 2.75 per cent for research and promotion. So what it all really boils down to is what the grower receives in the form of a cheque. All he is interested in is the final cheque that he receives. It is unfortunate that people are being misled into believing that they are going to get not a cheque that is based on the figure of 4lc per lb but one that is based on a figure that is much in excess of that, as the honourable member for Kingston mentioned a little while ago. 
The $64 question is: What brought the price down? That is the all important thing. When the present Opposition was voted out of office in 1972 the price of wool was almost at its peak for recent times. I am referring to the period since the early 1950s. But after 6 months in office by the Australian Labor Party we saw a change taking place. We saw the price starting to slip down. Why? For many reasons. I would like to mention one. I refer to an incident that took place in this chamber not so very many months ago when both the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  made great play about sapping the confidence of the people in the Australian Wool Corporation. I ask anyone who disputes that statement to check Hansard and see just what they did say and how they brought the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  into the picture. They were the ones who set the ball rolling. I vividly recall that when the Minister for Northern Development, who acts in this House for the 
Minister for Agriculture, was challenged to indicate what future backing there would be from the Government to enable the Wool Corporation to continue its operations he evaded the question. Whether he had this new proposal in mind at that stage I do not know. However, this upset the industry and the growers and affected the confidence of people. No doubt the buyers took advantage of the situation. 
Of course I am. It is a pity that the honourable member did not take particular note of this point because it is one of the reasons for people starting to lose confidence. The matter was referred to  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture. He said that he would form his own judgment on this issue. He did not support the honourable member for Eden-Monaro or the Minister for Northern Development. He was man enough not to criticise his own colleagues. He merely said that he would form his own judgment. Surely that indicates what he thought. 
As I said earlier, the Government refused to give an assurance that it would continue providing funds for the Wool Corporation to enable it to buy the quantity of wool necessary to maintain a reasonable and static price. I believe that since then the Government has tended to panic. I do not know how long it worked on this plan. The industry has been making submissions for some considerable time. When the final decision was made, how long did the Government or the Minister give the industry to consider the proposal? I think I am right in saying it was in the vicinity of one day. Wool industry leaders met in Melbourne and literally had to decide in a matter of hours whether to accept this plan. They had no alternative but to accept the plan as presented by the Minister. It was miles too late to start renegotiating. It takes a considerable time for the wool industry to determine a course of action because every State and every sector of the industry must be consulted and this cannot be done in a matter of hours. This is why we find ourselves in a most peculiar position. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was indicating what this new plan really means. I had reached the stage where I could well ask what is the difference between this plan and the previous one, which was the deficiency payments scheme that was known to many wool growers. The previous scheme placed a floor on the market to prevent violent price fluctuations. At the conclusion of that scheme and prior to the introduction of the new one, the virtual reserve price was running at 300c or better. That was the lowest price for some considerable time. The new scheme was introduced with the price at 250c Growers have to pay a 5 per cent levy on wool sold at this price. It is my opinion- I think it is held in many other areas of the wool industry and no doubt in the trade and possibly by some people who have made a close study of the subject- that had the floor price been set at 300c instead of 250c there would have been little more, if any more, wool purchased than is being purchased today. 
During the suspension of the sitting for dinner, my colleague the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  had some figures taken out to test some of the statements being made by members on the Government side. He asked the Parliamentary Library to calculate how the price of 36c per lb clean wool in 1970-71 would compare with that of 250c per kilo clean in September 1974, adjusted for inflation. It is true that we on this side of the House were somewhat critical of the previous reserve price of 36c, which was only a holding figure because just prior to its introduction the price of wool had reached an all time record low and something had to be done. The answer that the honourable member for Moore received was that the price was practically the same, excluding the 5 per cent levy on wool sold at the floor price of 250c a kilo clean. The important point, and I repeat it, is that the price excluded the 5 per cent levy. These are the estimates taken out by the Library and they show that 250c a kilo today represents a lower return to the growers than they received in 1970. Surely that proves the point that the people who are saying that they are satisfied with 250c know little of what they are talking about. 
My colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  drew my attention to some prices which I believe should be of interest to the House. A grower sheared some dorset horn stud rams and sold the wool. He shore 2V4 kilos per head. The return to the grower was 46/20 clear per kilo. That works out at $1.16 per sheep. These were studs and there have been a lot of increases in shearing costs. Anyone who knows anything about the industry will appreciate that the normal rate to have a sheep put in a shed and shorn is running in the vicinity of $ 1 .20 per head. The rate for stud rams is double which means an added 45c. So the return to the grower for his wool amounted to $1.16 and his costs came to $ 1.65. That is a loss of 49c per sheep. Yet people on the other side of the chamber say that it is not a bad price; that it is quite a satisfactory one. I repeat what I said before. Those people have little or no idea of the cost. They have to rememberI am referring now to the information given me by the honourable member for Moore- that the price about 3 years ago was about 3 times what the price is today. If today's costs are compared with those of 3 years ago, it will be found that costs are increasing by 90 per cent to 100 per cent. So that is how good this wool scheme is. 
At the present price level, which is caused by lack of confidence, it is my considered judgment that the $150m that the Government has put aside to lend to the wool industry- I repeat the word 'lend'- at interest which I believe will be about 1 1 or 1 1  Vi  per cent, will run out in the not too distant future. It is my guess that it will all be gone by Christmas unless something happens. If one looks at the fact that the growers contribute 5 per cent of their income, mindful that interest has to be paid over a 12-month period, one would find that about one-third of the grower's contribution could all be used up in a matter of 12 to 18 months. So I hope that those Government supporters who appear to be proud of this new scheme and take a lot of credit for introducing it to the wool industry for the first time will remember what they have said in a few years time. Perhaps when they move around the country electorates at election time they will remember it. I hope that they will also take some responsibility if and when the industry decides that this scheme is not quite as they thought it was to be originally. 
As I said earlier in my remarks, it must be remembered that the industry had little time to study the proposal. It knew that the old scheme was out and that there was nothing to take its place. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  virtually gave the growers 24 hours to make up their minds as to whether they were going to accept the proposal. I trust that members on the Government side will take these things into consideration and that they will also take the responsibility for the weaknesses of the scheme, so that at some future time they will try to make every endeavour to improve it. I believe the Government must take the responsibility for the collapse of the wool market. It is as simple as that. Had we remained with the old scheme,' growers would be receiving at least 50c a kilo more than they are receiving on the present market I am sure that all those members who are satisfied with the present price will go down in history as either not knowing anything about the industry and its problems, or as directly sabotaging the number one Australian industry, the wool industry. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
Can the Treasurer confirm or deny that a statement was made recently to the effect that the surplus of some $70m in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund would be distributed to those to whom it belongs, commencing later this year? Is he in a position to inform the House whether this is being done or will be done? In what form will it be distributed and when can these contributors expect to receive their just entitlement? 
-As one who has been a member of this chamber for quite some years, the situation in which quite regularly we hear this same old debate taking place is becoming rather alarming. It appears that the views of this House change in accordance with the change in its membership. I think we have just about reached the stage when we must decide very definitely just where we are going on this issue. For my part, I am not terribly concerned where the new parliament house is eventually built I think I can say on behalf of most members in this chamber that we will not be here when the work on the new parliament house is completed. All I am doing now is appealing to the chamber to make up its collective mind once and for all where the new parliament house will be erected so that those people who have the responsibility for the planning, etc., of the project can get on with the job. That is the appeal that I make to this Parliament. Let us make up our minds where we are going. 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) put: 
That the question be now put. 
-One has only to read today's newspapers to see just how hollow are the remarks made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  In this morning's 'Daily Telegraph' one sees the heading: 'Shoe Firms Crash; Jobs to go'. Tonight's 
Melbourne 'Herald* carries the heading: 'Calculations Change, but Jobless at 28-year Peak'. Today's 'Daily Mirror' carries the heading: 'December Election!'. That is a threat by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Those newspaper headings prove how hollow were the comments of the honourable member for Blaxland this evening. In summing up this Budget debate and having listened to a number of Government supporters, it is pretty obvious that the chief criterion of the Labor Party's policies is that of finance. If the Labor Party can increase a budget for a department, industry or organisation that, to its mind, spells success. As far as it is concerned, the more money the greater the success. Then, on the other hand, in relation to those areas in which we see a reduction, the argument is a little different. The Government says that those areas are wealthy, greedy and do not need consideration. 
To my mind it is a budget aimed at winning as many votes as money can buy, on the one hand, and selling to the highest bidder those votes that mean little for electoral purposes, on the other hand. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is a very nice fellow, kind and gentlemanly and liked by many, unfortunately fell to the pressure of power at any price by those who are dominated and known for their leftist extremist views. It took him 1V&amp; hours to deliver the Budget Speech. He laboriously listed all those areas in which support may be forthcoming. This was no accident; it was rather deliberate because both he, his leader and his superiors know only too well that their grasp on the Treasury bench is slipping away because of the policies that have been implemented during the last 20 months or so. It was a most peculiar Budget, because no sooner was it delivered than alterations commenced to be made to it. Maybe the changes started after it was printed but before it was delivered. I mention the wool industry, whereby an extra $150m had to be found to back up a promise made as late as 27 August. The Government would not hold up the premature announcement that funds would be received from the banking system. 
Just a week or so after the Budget was delivered we saw a major policy decision in the devaluing of the Australian dollar by some 12 per cent. A few minutes ago the honourable member for Blaxland was criticising the Liberal and Country Parties because they would not support an increase in the value of our dollar when they were in office. I ask, and many others ask: Why must these decisions be taken and announced one week after the Budget is delivered? Let me refer to the change in the tax structure. This is now followed by a decision of Caucus to vary the surcharge or special tax on unearned incomes. The latest move has been to reintroduce the $400 permissible taxation deduction for education purposes. Tonight the Prime Minister said that he has the unanimous support of Cabinet. I wonder what will happen tomorrow when Caucus meets. I wonder who will win. Is it any wonder that people are asking who controls our destiny? Is it the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Cabinet, the Caucus, the unions, or is it public opinion? Is this not the first sign of a lack of confidence and of panic, or is it a realisation that Australia is not a country that is prepared to accept socialisation and all its evils? I agree with the statement which appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' of Tuesday, 24 September. I shall read only three lines. 
The Treasurer is a puzzled man. Business, he pointed out on Sunday night, is pessimistic, and he found it hard to know why. 
He must be the only man in Australia who does not know the reasons why. I refer to another leading article in the 'Mail Times' which is a newspaper published in my electorate of Wimmera. I cannot read the whole article but I shall read one paragraph. It is a very good article. It states: 
The Budget was a national tragedy. It was aimed, directly and callously, at the destruction of private enterprise. It was the product of socialist theorists who are determined to reduce primary industry to a peasant state and the business world to hopelessness. 
Another article which appeared in the 'Mail Times' on Monday, 30 September, is very interesting because it is pretty factual. It reads: 
The Government may as well tell everyone to waste their money. Why save? There is no merit in thrift or in provision for the future. Booze, gamble, spend any way you like, but make sure you spend- that is the message behind the decision to tax savings. 
Apart from anything else which has been said all over Australia and which has appeared in the various media, surely these articles should awaken the Government to the fact that all is not well. Maybe it was articles such as these which made the Government, or the Caucus, make these decisions. I am rather interested to note in tonight's 'Daily Mirror' that the Prime Minister is now starting to come the bluff and referring to calling an election. This follows a statement made by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  some 10 days ago in which he said that the Labor Party is fundamentally democratic. Yet the Prime Minister is threatening to call an election if the Senate rejects any part of the Budget.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  can you tell me, or can anyone on the Government side tell me, the difference between the Senate, a democratically elected body of people, rejecting something and the Caucus rejecting Cabinet decisions? 
What is the difference? Come on, tell us. The honourable member is not game to tell us. Like the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  I believe that there is a little bit of good in the Budget. It is pretty hard to find. As I think the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  interjected, it would take 3 seconds to explain it all. I think he is pretty right The Budget contains a lot of things which will catch the public sympathy. In other words, they will catch public support. I mention such things as the extra funds to be paid in health benefits, to nursing homes, in social security payments and for education. All of these payments are very beneficial to the recipients. But I note, as do many other people, the backing away by the Government from an earlier promise to ease further the means test. This will be a bitter blow to many people who were depending on this promise being carried out Under the heading of Aboriginal Advancement we see a very big increase, and many people will go along with this. While I do not want to discredit this particular cause I query the extra expenditure of some $65m, because we know that all the money allocated in the last Budget was not spent; yet the commitment on this occasion is going to go up by $65m. Perhaps this is the reason we saw a change in the portfolio of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Perhaps the previous Minister overspent I mention the Defence Service Homes maximum loan, which is to rise from $12,000 to $15,000. Very good, it is keeping pace with inflation. Perhaps I should not say it is keeping pace, but it is coming near to it. Here again there is a discrimination in interest rates. One rate is 3% per cent and for the remainder it is 7 W per cent. 
These are some of the issues in the Budget that may be partly favourable. However, there are so many others that will carry the burden of some of these issues that it is not funny. For instance, there is the Post Office, and I think the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  mentioned this. Why do we expect to see a profit in the Post Office of some $55m? There are 2 reasons. One is that there is an increase in charges. These increased charges have now been implemented and the Government was very much on the ball on that one. Secondly, there is a slowing down in capital expenditure. There has been no increase in the allocation of capital expenditure, which means in theory, and no doubt in practice, that there is going to be a reduction of some 20 per cent in capital expenditure caused by increased costs. It is almost an insult to include in the Budget Papers assistance for agricultural and pastoral industries. The total figure shows a contribution of $3 11m, but a close examination of one item alone proves how this misleads the pub.lic. For the wool industry there is shown an amount well above the actual. The levy placed on growers under the new reserve price plan has been included, as well as the other levy for research and promotion. These levies are both included as Government expenditure. This is not Government expenditure but is a contribution made by the growers themselves. So if this figure is deleted the amount allocated to primary producers, despite inflation and despite lower export returns, is ever so much less than it was last year. 
If one examines Table 2, section C, of the Budget Papers one sees that an expenditure of $3 1 lm has been allocated to primary industries, but if one looks at Table 4 under Receipts one finds $163m will be forthcoming from primary industries. So instead of having a total expenditure of $31 lm, which has been quoted by members of the Government, the expenditure is only $148m. If this is compared with expenditure in previous years based on the same formula, and I can go back as far as 1968-69, the amounts were $200m, then $352m, $192m, $3 12m, $204m, $232m and this year $ 148m. I might add that the $148m includes some $46m for a superphosphate bounty that in theory is going to expire on 3 1 December. We do not know what the final decision is going to be. Despite a record low price for wool, despite the fact that we cannot sell beef, mutton and lamb on the export market and that what we do sell is at almost record low prices, the Government has cut expenditure for primary industries to the lowest level since 1968. 
It certainly has not offered any support anywhere. So if one compares the allocations made by the Labor Government of today, plus the estimate for this year, allowing for a 15 per cent inflation, they are equal to only about 50 per cent of the allocations of the previous Government. Primary producers by their actions on 18 May showed their feelings by displacing 4 Labor Party members, including the member for Riverina, and almost displacing two or three more. Given a few extra votes the Opposition would have had another 3 members. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said recently that farm exports would be only marginally lower than last year. I do not know where he got his figures from, but that was his statement. I would not be permitted to use in this House the words expressed by many primary producers throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
To my mind, this is a shocking Budget; it is a sneaky Budget and a most discriminating one. It tries to win support, irrespective of the long term factors. It belts into any form of incentive. Indisputably it is an inflationary Budget. Any individual who tries to expand, to develop and produce more, which in turn helps to reduce costs, is discouraged. I agree with my Leader  (Mr Anthony)  when he says that Australia's standard of living will fall if agricultural production falls. In other words, what he is saying is that an affluent primary industry makes an affluent Australia. Australia is basically a food producing nation. There is no country in the world that exports a higher proportion of its production than Australia does. When I hear members of the Labor Party talking I am absolutely certain they do not appreciate this point. There are few commodities that fluctuate in price more than foodstuffs, because they are subject to. seasonal conditions, not only in Australia but throughout the world. There is certainly a great deal of truth in the old cliche about the swing of the pendulum. A few years ago there was a surplus of grain throughout the world and very low prices as a result; today there is a shortage, hence high prices. Last year there was a shortage of beef, creating high prices; today we have a glut, hence low prices. These principles apply to many items -sugar, dairy products and a host of others. 
These are but some of the reasons why, in the broad, primary producers want some form of stabilisation to cover their various commodities. True, stabilisation means a contribution when times are good and assistance when things are not so good. It appears that there are many people who forget this principle. Wheat growers are certainly not very happy with the Government's new scheme because it is not a true stabilisation scheme, as my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  myself and others pointed out during the recent debate on this issue. 
Of course they almost give it to the consumer, at approximately half price, contributing something like $100m per year. What this new scheme does is to cut off the peaks, both up and down, and if we run into a lengthy period of rough times it will do nothing to assist the producers. It follows the price up and it will follow the price down. Primary industries are not alone. They have similar problems to many secondary industries. That is why we see all the leading articles and front page articles about the problems of industry at the present time, all caused by Government decisions on inflation and reduced tariffs and this sort of thing. However, the Government must like primary industries because it has a build up of reserves to counter the weak periods. Little thought is given when a purchaser has to pay more. Sometimes they forget that the retailer has to pay a little extra too. Some of the proposals such as the capital gains tax are going to discourage development, not encourage it. The removal of taxation incentives in the last Budget also helped to cripple the development and expansion of many of our industries, both primary and secondary. 
If inflation continues at the present rate or at even half of the present rate for the next 10 or 20 years, I ask what is going to happen to our factories, our farms, our businesses on the death of an owner or on his retirement or even if he just decides to sell or change to another business? The increased capital by virtue of inflation will be such that half of it could be lost. If inflation were to run at 10 per cent a year for the next 10 years then the capital value of the property, everything else being equal, would be something like 250 per cent above the original value. That is at the rate of 10 per cent and not at the rate of 20 per cent or 20 per cent plus, which is the rate at which it is running today. I am taking the rate of 10 per cent. What type of capital tax would this attract over a period of time if 2 farmers or 2 businessmen were to decide to change their farms or businesses, which is not uncommon? They would both finish up actually owning only a portion of the farm or business after the capital tax is applied. 
I support wholeheartedly the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Some very worthwhile contributions have been made from this side of the chamber on the weaknesses of this Budget. I think it was the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who made some comment about a cliche that was being bandied around about the Prime Minister. It was: 'Gough's going great'. I think one word should be added. I think it ought to read something like this: 'Gough's going; that's great'. 
I rise to speak on the estimates for the Parliament. I commence by complimenting the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  on his earlier contribution to this debate. I am sure that those who have been members of this chamber for quite some considerable time fully appreciate that the honourable member for Ryan has a great knowledge of the workings of this Parliament. 
Tonight, in the few minutes that remain for this debate, I wish to refer as a member who has served in this place for a considerable time to one aspect that concerns me. No doubt one should be grateful to one's constituents. They have shown that I have had their confidence on a number of occasions. The problem that I raise in relation to Parliament is that experienced by many members throughout Australia in getting to the Parliament. I do not refer to election day; I mean weekly. I refer to travelling arrangements. I see members on both sides of the Committee who, I fully appreciate, share this problem with me. I do believe that many of these members have great difficulty in maintaining the concentration that is necessary to enable them to represent their various electorates efficiently. 
It is an easy and simple matter for those members who reside in the metropolitan areas of Melbourne and Sydney, and perhaps even Adelaide and Brisbane, to travel by aircraft to Canberra and this Parliament. But many other honourable members face the problem of travelling from Perth, outback New South Wales and areas of South Australia and Victoria. My colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and I spend many, many hours seeking to secure transport that will get us to Canberra. In my case, I spend a minimum of at least 12 hours a week in travelling for purposes of the meetings of this Parliament. I can recall the days when transport arrangements with respect to many country areas were even better than they are today. I could then come to Canberra in approximately 6 hours. Today I find that this is not so. Naturally this does affect the efficiency of members. They have very little time in their electorates. They must try to do most of their work by use of the telephone and, naturally enough, this creates many problems. 
We can compliment the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who has a full understanding, I believe, of the many problems of these honourable members. But I believe that the workings of the Parliament have now reached the stage where, despite the fact the Minister for Services and Property is doing all that he possibly can, he is not even keeping pace with developments. It is all very well for those members in the capital cities to refer to the additional staff available for members. I am sure that this is appreciated by the members in those areas. But this development is of little assistance to those honourable members who have their electorate offices outside metropolitan areas. I know that my secretary finds great difficulty, as do the secretaries of many other honourable members. They cannot get out of their offices, shoot around the corner and attend to an issue, to make inquiries or to pick up this or that. Rather is it a case of entering into lots of correspondence which again creates more work for the secretary. I know that many suggestions have been put forward that we should have research officers to provide assistance to members- 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1 1 July I shall now report progress. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, you may recall that last evening when I was speaking on this subject I was referring to the problems of the individual members of this place in relation to their parliamentary duties and responsibilities, how difficult it was for some of them to get to this place, and other problems that they confront whilst trying to operate efficiently and effectively as members representing various constituencies. I instanced the assistance that the Australian Country Party receives in this place. I speak on behalf of my own Party because I am not so familiar with the members of the other parties represented in this Parliament. One typist is allocated to the Country Party in this place. I do not want to imply that her efficiency is not enough for the job. On the contrary, I believe she does a magnificent job, but she is completely overworked. It is not uncommon for members who go along to see her to find that they have to get in a queue to get their dictating done. Finally, they may have to wait, in many instances, for days before they can secure her services, which are sometimes urgently needed. That this problem exists can be proved by the fact that many members of the Liberal and Country Parties have to employ staff themselves privately. I think it is disgraceful that members of a political party have to employ private staff and pay the salaries of staff themselves so that the work that is necessary in this place can be carried out. I do not know how many staff are privately employed by the ruling Labor Government. I would doubt that any are employed doing the same type of work as is carried out by private employees of the Liberal and Country Parties. However, that is by the way. 
I want to refer to some figures under division 101 in the estimates for the Parliament. The appropriation for salaries and overtime for people who operate within the Senate totals $1,161 ,400. Under division 102 the appropriation under the same item for the House of Representatives is $1,322,000. You might say that there is not a great deal of difference. How true. Yet the total membership of the Senate is 60 whereas this House has a total of 127 members. Surely to goodness that proves the point- I am not suggesting that we should have double the staff of the Senate- that at least members of the House of Representatives should be given a little more consideration in terms of the workload that is carried in this House. That is after all what we are dealing with. 
Finally I make mention of parliamentary procedure. What has been concerning me is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made statements outside this place, and indeed inside it, threatening to call the Parliament out before the people in the event of certain legislation not being passed by the Senate. We have heard about the so-called obstruction of the Senate. If ground exists for a government to resign because parties or Houses reject a Budget, what is the difference between that situation and members in this chamber making alterations to Budget decisions brought down by the Treasurer? The question is: Who does make the decisions? I always thought it was the Cabinet, but it appears today that Caucus has a very big say. Finally we see a situation in which individual party committees almost have power in this place. Recently the  chairman  of a committee suggested that this and that should be altered and finally the Treasurer agreed. I believe that this committee system eventually will break the procedures and principles of the Parliament itself and that is why I draw attention to it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. As the Minister for Overseas Trade has now admitted failure by the Government, and in particular the Minister for Agriculture, to persuade the Japanese Government to remove the barriers against the importing of Australian meat, I ask the Prime Minister: Is there any truth in the suggestion that he is considering changing his Cabinet team? Is it true that he is considering removing from office the present Minister for 
Agriculture because he has failed so often to persuade Cabinet and Caucus to implement the number of ideas that he so frequently has put to the industry? 
-I wish to speak for a few minutes on one or two aspects of the Bill now before the House. In common with honourable members who have spoken, I will not delay this debate any longer than is necessary. I wish firstly to compliment the Government on making quite a number of alterations to this legislation. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  said that many of these proposals were long overdue. I certainly agree wholeheartedly with that comment. I commend the remarks made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who, in referring to prisoners of war, said that heart conditions are accepted for purposes of free medical treatment and other benefits. But the Government is not prepared to go all the way in this respect. I am of the opinion that where a certain amount of doubt exists- and there is no question in my mind that a great deal of doubt surrounds the cause of a heart condition- that doubt should be resolved to the benefit of the ex-serviceman or the exservicewoman. Therefore, the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Herbert is a most worthy one at which I believe the Government could look very closely. 
The proposal to extend eligibility for service pensions to all members of Commonwealth countries perhaps needs some explanation. Unfortunately, outside this place and outside the area of activity within the repatriation system, people have the impression that there is no difference between a service pension and a repatriation pension. They seem to classify a service pension as an Army pension and to believe that a service pension, an Army pension and a repatriation pension are all the same. Those who understand the inner workings of the repatriation system appreciate that this is not so. I make this point because there will be a number of people who will be of the opinion that, as they are from a Commonwealth country and they have a war caused disability, they will be eligible for repatriation benefits as distinct from a service pension. 
In his second reading speech, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that, after next autumn, service pensioners will be eligible for a means test free pension at 70 years of age. I think that that statement also needs some explanation. Up until this time, the position of the service pensioner is very similar to that of an ordinary age pensioner with the exception that the service pensioner receives his pension, if he is suffering ill-health, or at age 60 as compared with age 65 for the ordinary civilian. The means test free pension at present is paid to ordinary civilians at age 75 and over. There is no advantage whatsoever for a service pensioner. If it is good enough for a service pensioner to receive that advantage 5 years ahead of the payment of an equivalent benefit to an age pensioner, surely it is good enough for the Government to consider determining that he receives the same advantage with respect to the means test free pension. I am glad to note that the honourable member for Herbert agrees with me. 
There are other angles that I must not overlook. A portion of the repatriation pension received by a service pensioner is exempt for means test purposes if that pensioner is in receipt of a repatriation pension. That exemption at present is 25 per cent of that pension; it is expected to rise to 50 per cent next autumn. I point out that the Minister in his second reading speech said that it was the goal of this Government to see that the 100 per cent rate repatriation pension was increased to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. I support the principle of setting a goal in these matters. It is anticipated that next autumn the 100 per cent pension rate will be equal to 41 per cent of the minimum wage. 
I have raised this question in this House before. I can never understand why under repatriation measures we refer to a percentage of the minimum rate whereas, when it comes to social security matters, we talk of a percentage of average male earnings. I should like the Special Minister of State to explain to me why there is this difference. I am not sure whether this is to confuse but as I see the average male earnings rising and, no doubt, the minimum wage rising I wonder how long it will be before the 100 per cent rate repatriation pension reaches 50 per cent of the minimum wage. If it is the goal of the Government to lift it to 50 per cent, why not make a bold bid? It is no good talking about what is going to be done in a few years time. That sounds too much like party political campaigning -'Put us back in government and this is what we will do'. When it comes to ministerial decisions in Cabinet it might be all right for Ministers to say that they will vary the pension next year, but in actual fact if it is good enough to announce that they intend to do it some time in the future they should substitute action for words. 
In the broad I compliment the Government for introducing the provisions contained in this Bill. It represents a substantial lift in the TPI pension of $4 per week, in the intermediate rate of $3.50 and in the 100 per cent rate of $3. With respect to the 100 per cent rate and below, the increases are certainly overdue. For too long the 100 per cent rate has been running at the same figure. If at any time the Government decides that it wants to improve the Repatriation Act I am sure it can depend on many members on this side of the chamber to give it all the co-operation and help that is necessary. After all, repatriation today is developing into a pretty big problem. A previous speaker, I think a Government supporter, referred to the fact that many persons are experiencing difficulty in receiving entitlements through the repatriation system. I, no doubt, like many other members, have similar difficulties. There is the old problem of individuals, because of age, complaining of back complaints. Anyone who knows anything about medical history and the medical situation knows it is difficult to be able to declare whether the person's complaint is genuine. I shall not use the expression we used to use in the old Army days, but a lot of doubtful cases are created by old age. The Government or the Repatriation Department should look closely at some of these matters because I believe that in more cases than not people who have applied or are not receiving their just entitlements. 
It is a tragedy that a Minister of the Crown will abuse the privileges bestowed upon him in an important debate such as this. We were told some 12 months ago that we had open government. It is open, all right. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke for about 30 minutes but no doubt before this debate is concluded members of the Opposition will be gagged. It is disgraceful that the Minister should enter the debate so early without giving members of the Opposition an opportunity of asking questions. I wanted to put a lot of matters to the Minister tonight. What did we see? The Minister came in and spoke. If we do not watch him he will even leave the chamber. 
The first matter I want to raise is in relation to the immigration part of the Department of Labor and Immigration. We all appreciate that in the last 2 years we have seen many changes and I, like many people throughout Australia, am very concerned as a result of the various decisions that have been made and implemented. I am concerned that our policy has drifted away from the original one laid down by the first Minister for Immigration, the late A. A. Calwell. Basically, his policy was to lift the population of Australia through immigration but at the same time keep a homogeneous population. The immediate past Minister for Immigration recently said that any Australian Minister, public servant or government worker would be sacked on the spot if he sought to promote discrimination on the grounds of race, colour or creed. Such policy statements run parallel to one another but they are entirely different when it comes to implementing them. 
The easiest way to fight a fire is to prevent it. The easiest way to avoid discrimination is to prevent that, too. In past years immigration has been a subject of non political consequence. In saying that I mean that all members of this Parliament, irrespective of to which side they belong, generally agreed on the broad principles laid down originally by the late Arthur Calwell. Perhaps the only thing that we disagreed on were the numbers, the way in which migrants were to be brought to Australia and like matters. Today we talk on one hand of a homogeneous population and anti-discrimination on the other. An open door appears to be quite often discussed. But the number of migrants coming to Australia, particularly in the last 12 months, has gradually decreased. Many reasons are given. Migration is not like a water tap; it cannot be turned on and off at random. 
We were told by the former Minister for Immigration that the future policy would be based on family reunions and that this would play a very important role in relation to incoming migrants. It sounds very good in theory but it is not working out in practice, for various reasons. I am concerned at any form of discrimination, as are members from both sides of this chamber, particularly on racial grounds. However, I am also conscious of what can happen if a country adopts a policy of pleasing all, as our immediate past Minister for Immigration was only too quick to try to do. To see how our immigration policy will affect Australia in the long term one need only look at the position in the United Kingdom at present. Australia has almost 2 million migrants resident here. I believe that most of these migrants, because of the environment, are happy here. 
These are some of the reasons why they are happy: In the past we have given them a high priority. We have looked after their interests. When they have come here they have had the right to invite their close friends and relatives to join them if there was a need. But under the present policy this privilege is gradually disappearing. It is gradually being taken away for 2 very definite reasons: first, the reduction in the number of migrants; and second, the broadened policy based on non-discrimination and an ability to occupy a position in an industry with little thought for the long term future. I believe and most of my colleagues on this side of the chamber believe that we have a responsibility to protect all Australians, and in particular, those people who have not been born here. I believe we have a particular responsibility to them. 
Time will not allow me to go into all the ramifications of this Department of Labor and Immigration but I should like to mention some other points. Ever since this Government came into office it has been pretty obvious that there is a general trend for it to take every opportunity to use the powers that it possesses and try to gain a few more. As an illustration of this, even as late as Monday of this week I had cause to contact an officer of the Department in relation to an issue that I believe needed a decision which was certainly overdue. No names, no pack-drill. I have no intention of placing the matter before the Minister. Nevertheless, an officer of the Department apologised to me and said that it was absolutely impossible for him to keep up the pace that has been demanded of his Department because of decisions made in this place. This is not surprising with the great mass of decisions and counter decisions made by Caucus and the like, that come from the Government weekly or even daily. I really feel for officers of the Department. They are overworked because of the demands that have been placed on them by the Minister. 
Honourable members on this side of the chamber appreciate the work that has been carried on hot only in this Department but also in many other departments. I would have liked the Minister to answer some questions about retrenchment and suggestions that have been put forward by him in relation to unemployment relief. A lot of people do not understand the difference between ordinary unemployment relief payments and retrenchment payments. I think it is up to the Minister to make the position clear and to put it on the record so that the people know where they are going. Surely he can take an opportunity at some future time to do so. If he had not been so selfish in using up so much of the time earlier this evening he would have been in a position to answer these questions. I want him to explain the difference between retrenchment payments as a result of Government decisions and payments for retrenchments brought about by the failure of industry through a lack of purchasing power or a lack of confidence. What is the difference? Surely there is no difference. In actual fact, we could all ask the simple question as to why unemployment is growing today. The answer is obvious. It is because of Government decisions. Yet the retrenchment payment is confined to those industries which the Minister declares have been affected as a result of Government decisions. I think this is a shocking state of affairs. 
As far as the retraining scheme is concerned, I have endeavoured to make some inquiries and to get some information from various centres. Again, no names, no pack drill. I have been terribly disappointed. I have not been able to get it. I am glad that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has raised this question. I compliment him for doing so. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  is attempting to interject. I only wish I had the time to reply to him because no doubt he would not be on the ball anyway. 
As my time in this debate is short I want to refer to the position of the self-employed. These people do not qualify for anything because they are self-employed. They may have had an income last year but they do not have it today. What is the position in relation to them? What is the position in relation to primary producers whose incomes have been cut off because of Government decisions, floods and the like? These people do not have an opportunity. They are not entitled to unemployment relief. I know of cases where people were prepared to work. They offered to work the normal 5 days a week yet they were rejected because they had been self-employed and last year they had a reasonable income. They are the questions that I would like the Minister to answer. 
I wish to devote a few minutes to the Department of the Media, Divisions 336, 338 and 340. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  gave an excellent address on the problems of the media as they affect certain areas overseas. I cannot support him too strongly, because I believe that Australia's future nationally depends on the publicity that it receives abroad. If we are going to allow information about Australia which is disseminated overseas to be incorrect and misleading then we have only ourselves to blame for any criticism that might come our way. Looking at the appropriatiations, it is interesting to see that there has been a substantial increase in a number of sectors. Taking the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Australian Information Service, I believe it was the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  who made first reference to the wonderful godsend it has been to the rank and file people of Australia who are able to secure information in the capital cities directly from the services without having to call on their member or contact Canberra to get it. Whilst these AGPS bookshops have been very helpful and may have eased the load on members of Parliament, perhaps the Minister could look at this issue and delve into it a little more deeply and allow Federal members to get credit at these bookshops. So often members have to get information in a hurry and, naturally enough, it is not always easy for them to foot the bills for all the books and copies of legislation and so on that they require in a hurry. 
I want to pay tribute also to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who I believe over a period of time has tried to ensure that a lot of publicity is given through the normal media, and I refer not only to the daily metropolitan Press but also to the country Press. There is no doubt that he should have done this because, as a result of decisions by this Government, many country newspapers and country radio and television stations are in great financial difficulty. But I do believe that the Minister is trying to offer some form of compensation by giving them a great deal of publicity that had not been given to them before and I do commend the Minister for this action. It is all very well for people who are living in the metropolitan areas, and do not have any true appreciation of what the country Press has got to put up with, to say, 'OK, we have probably got too many country newspapers, and when it comes to members of Parliament who have got to become financial subscribers to these newspapers then they should take out an annual subscription'. I would agree, but these newspapers are very important to country people. It is the only means they have of obtaining information on a local level, and this is very important to them. 
On the question of television, I am glad to see that expenditure there has been increased from $84m to $101m, and no doubt the introduction of colour television is partly responsible for this. Nevertheless, I place a lot of country television stations into the same category as country radio stations and country newspapers. There is a very large expenditure involved in television and when it comes to increased costs television stations have the same problem as everyone else. Coupled with this is the problem that in many country areas the costs of radio and television stations and newspapers go up but their income does not go up proportionately. If an industry runs into either temporary or long term financial difficulties the first thing it does is to cut its costs, and where does it look in order to do that? The first thing it does is cut some of its advertising costs because it feels it might be able to get away with this. And who gets caught? Newspapers and radio and TV stations. 
Now we are in the throes of introducing colour television and, needless to say, this is going to be a huge expense for country television stations. I am not going to forecast what it will cost each station but I am led to believe that it is a pretty huge sum, perhaps somewhere in the vicinity of $lm per station, and that is just for the initial changeover. Coupled with that, the daily costs of stations also are going to increase because they no longer will be able to depend on the old black and white camera to get all of their news stories; rather they will have to make sure that they have colour film and colour television cameras. Certain lighting factors also come into it. So they will have ever so many more problems. Naturally enough, they also are going to be in great difficulty. 
While on the subject of the media I want to raise another matter which I think comes within the same category. I refer to some information which has been sent out to country newspapers in relation to postage. I have been informed that newspapers now have to declare that they will not contravene the provisions of the legislation as laid down concerning the delivery of newspapers in competition with the Post Office by the payment of a sum of money. That is something which is making it pretty difficult for some small country newspapers which had the right before or which have always carried out the practice of paying a small sum of money to have their newspapers delivered. They have now been told that this is not permitted. I hope that the persons concerned with enforcing this piece of legislation will do something about that. 
I notice that my time has just about expired. I am sorry that I have not dealt with the estimates for the Department of Science. I believe that it is a very vital department and one which quite often is neglected when it comes to general acceptance or otherwise by the people. I must be quite frank and say that I have no real criticism to offer about what the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  has done. I think he is carrying out his duties in a quite firm but certainly not ruthless way. I think he has been able to implement policies - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I also wish to make a short contribution on Division 400 in the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. It is almost with monotonous regularity that when we are dealing with PMG estimates we are discussing further increases in charges, lack of development and reducing service. Certainly the 1974 estimates are no exception. Postal, telephone, and other miscellaneous charges are increased. Yet the service, of course, certainly will not be improved. Postal and telephone charges are 2 basic concerns of many people outside this place and also inside this place. The Committee may be interested in a small example of the increases. Last Friday I gave my secretary $ 10 to buy some stamps. Naturally I thought that would be enough for a little while. But before I left my office last Monday she again requested some more money. I said: 'What for?' She said: 'For stamps.' I said: 'I gave you $10 on Friday.' She said: 'That will all be gone by the end of the week.' When we checked through my postings on Monday they accounted for just on $ 10 worth of stamps. That gives an indication of just how difficult for people is the increase in the various rates. 
However, I must admit that the Government did make one reduction with the abolition of radio and television licence fees. On the surface this looked most attractive to many people, but it appears somewhat ludicrous when one considers that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said in the Budget Speech that the fees were abolished because the provision of radio and television is a service to the community. Then the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  stated that because costs had increased he must increase the general fees. What is the difference? They are both services to the community. Why should the charges for one be removed and for the other be increased. To me the whole situation appears to be ludicrous. All members on this side of the chamber declare that the Postmaster-General's Department is a service department and it has to give a service to the community. If that is so, why should there be such substantial increases? To my mind the increases are certainly unreasonable. The reports of the Postmaster-General's Department show prohibitive increases in almost every sector. Telephone service connection fees are rising from $60 to $80. 
I am not too sure what the rental was under the previous Government. I know the new rate. 
I think the honourable member for Wide Bay is correct. Under the previous Government many rentals were only $27 a year. Today the same service costs $85 a year. The Liberal-Country Party Government contended that rentals in country areas were lower than those in metropolitan areas because the people of the country areas did not have the same faculties as subscribers in metropolitan areas; they did not have the same opportunity to contact so many people for a local call fee. The telephone accounts of country subscribers include a substantial charge for trunk calls. The previous Government recognised this point and reduced the rentals accordingly and so brought them more into line. But not this Government. It suggests that if something is good enough for one it is good enough for all. If that is the case, why did the Government allow a variation in rental for different types of services? A non-business rental charge is $65, but a business rental charge is $85. Why the difference? Some primary producers in my area are classified as conducting businesses. Unless they can guarantee to the Department that their telephones are wholly and solely for social use they have to pay the business rate. So there is discrimination here. To be consistent the Government should have no differential in rentals. 
I remind the Committee that country people as a whole pay a lot more for these services than do people in the metropolitan areas. I think of the anomalous charge on subscribers residing more than 5 miles from a telephone exchange. Under the previous Government's policy the Department installed telephones without a charge for line construction. This is not so today. A subscriber more than 5 miles from a telephone exchange who has a telephone connected has to pay for all line construction beyond 5 miles. I have raised an anomalous case with the Postmaster-General which I hope he will look at. In this case a telephone line was installed under the previous Government, under the previous policy, and was in existence for some time. The telephone service was temporarily disconnected and when the new subscriber applied for reconnection of the service he was asked to pay for the construction of the line that was already there. If that is not an anomaly I have never seen one. This is just one of the anomalous cases in relation to country telephone lines. 
I am not directing any criticism at individual public servants or the employees of the Post Office. I believe that generally speaking we get a top class service from the bulk of the employees. But because of certain actions taken by this Government literally no mail is sorted in many areas from Friday evening to Monday morning. Sometimes the mail has to go from one town to another and when it goes as second class mail, heavens above, there is a great delay. Newspapers printed on a Friday are delivered on the following Tuesday- really up to date this is. I put to the Government that it should give some consideration to the sorting of mail at other times. Of course in the metropolitan areas where there are large numbers of people the mail is sorted at the weekend and on Monday morning it is delivered. However, that is not the case in rural areas under this Government. 
Under the estimates for capital expenditure we see exactly the same allocation of funds this year as were allocated last year. Heaven only knows what is the increased cost due to inflation and because of increased charges within the Department, but we know that the same amount of money will certainly not go nearly as far as it went last year. My guess is that the allocation this year is the equivalent of about a 30 per cent cut. The same thing applies in mail deliveries. It has become pretty monotonous to hear mail contractors saying 'I am sorry, but I have to give it away. 
I cannot make it pay at these rates', and the Department saying: 'Because of the cost we now have to reduce the service.' The reduction may be from 5 days a week to 3 days a week or from 3 days a week service to 2 days a week. If this trend continues people will be lucky if they get a mail delivery a week under this policy. Fancy having to wait a week for country newspapers which are so vital for people residing in these areas. As each year goes by the service is deteriorating. 
My question to the Prime Minister follows upon a statement made by him recently to the United Nations to the effect that Australia would do all possible to help in easing the present world food shortage. I ask the Prime Minister Has the Australian Government made to needy countries any offers of assistance in the form of meat or meat products that appear to be surplus to our present requirements both at home and on the recognised export markets? If it has not made any such offers of assistance, can he inform the House of the reasons? 
-I wish to raise the question of the very serious plight of some employees throughout the length and breadth of the country, particularly those in my electorate. I want to refer to the various angles of unemployment and unemployment relief as laid down by the present Government. There seems to be a lot of confusion as to just what is going on. We have heard quite a bit about the Regional Employment Development scheme and the general rate of unemployment benefit. The Government has introduced the payment of what it calls a special rate to employees who become redundant in their jobs as a result of Government decisions. It is in this regard that many people are becoming very confused. 
Like many honourable members in this place, I have a number of textile industries in my electorate. Some, of course, are battling on and are affected only little by the current situation. Others are being affected greatly because of lack of sales and Government decisions. We have heard of some cases of firms having to close their doors completely. In the more populated areas if a person loses a job, he or she can try something else. But in many country areas there is little or no alternative. The people who live in these areas have no option but to take whatever rate of unemployment benefit is available. I want to draw attention to Prestige Ltd at Ararat which is situated some 100 miles or so west of Melbourne. This mill has done everything possible to secure sales in the interests, naturally, of keeping its staff employed. But the decision was reached last week to retrench a number of employees. Now it has reached the stage where 57.5 per cent of the total number of employees of this firm have been retrenched. 
The case of another mill, North Western Woollen Mills Pty Ltd, comes to mind. It is situated at Stawell which is not very far away from the other mill. Not quite the same percentage of employees has been retrenched there but, nevertheless, the figure is much higher than is in the best interests of those people working there. Employees of these 2 firms qualify for the special retrenchment rate which is a rate equal to the average income of the employee for the previous 6 months. What concerns me- it concerns a lot of people outside this place- is that those people who are thrown out of work indirectly by decisions of the Government, if one likes to put it that way, will receive only the normal unemployment rate of benefit. 
Government members have frequently talked about discrimination and the lack of discrimination and about how they want to treat everybody equally. How do they declare their position in relation to these 2 rates of benefit? How do they explain the difference? The anomalies in the unemployment rates are tremendous. A person who has been displaced from his employment in an industry which for official purposes has been affected by a government decision receives, as I said before, the average income that he received over the previous 6 months for a further 6 months. But if that person dares to take another job and perhaps loses that second job, providing it is of a permanent nature- the job itself may not be a permanent one- he does not qualify for a redundancy payment but rather he will receive the ordinary rate of unemployment benefit. What does this mean? Every person who is displaced because of redundancy can virtually automatically say to himself: 'I have now got 6 months leave of absence', because he dare not take another job because of the fact that he will not be permitted to claim a second bite of the cherry in the event of the industry in which he has taken his second job being put in the position where it must displace him. It is certainly a most undesirable situation and one into which I believe that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has a great responsibility to look very deeply. 
The next point I wish to make is in relation to the actual delay in the making of payments. This is inevitable because of the huge number of inquiries that departmental officers are receiving. Naturally enough the officers of the Department must certainly be well and truly overworked in trying to sort out what category various people belong to. I want to make a suggestion to the Minister. I think it was the Minister's intention to be in the House during the adjournment debate tonight but, as it has come on a little early, no doubt he is still attending to other commitments and is unable to be here. My suggestion to the Minister is that when a person applies for the increased rate- what I classify as the redundancy rate- he immediately automatically be paid the ordinary rate as a first payment. Then it does not matter so much about the delay. I know of some employees who have not received any income for 5 or 6 weeks, and I think there was an isolated case of a person not receiving an income for 8 weeks. To my mind this is just not good enough because these people are unaware when thenwages are going to stop being paid. In some instances they are told late in the afternoon that they will be finishing up that night. Naturally enough they receive a week's pay, but the point is that at the present time they are not prepared to go without pay for a period of some 6 weeks or so. 
I want to raise another point before I resume my seat. I want to commend to the Minister for the introduction of the RED scheme. It is a scheme of which he is very proud and it involves the Commonwealth Government making payments available to various municipalities and organisations so that they can employ personnel who are registered as unemployed to carry out certain works. In the broad I think this principle is very good, but we have some problems here. The first one I find in my country electorate is related to female labour. In many cases a female who has been retrenched or who loses her position finds that quite a few other people also have been put off and there is just no alternative work available to her. If such a person is in receipt of redundancy pay it is not so bad as she can survive, but if she is not it is very difficult for her to canyon. 
The second problem, as I see it, is the delay involved in having certain projects accepted. I believe that the Minister has been pretty good in that he has been trying to do all he can to ensure that everything which is put to him receives immediate attention, but there seems to me to be a little too much duplication. We see where there is what he calls a special committee of RED Ministers. I am not sure what their role is. The Minister has informed us that he is checking with various honourable members to get the OK from them on certain projects within their electorates and that any honourable member who is interested in doing so can make a recommendation one way or the other. I commend him for that. Some cases are directed to what are called State committees. I have now been advised by telegram in response to a query I put to the Minister as late as 1 1 o 'clock or so this morning- I compliment the Department for its efficiency- that a certain project which I have put forward has been approved by the Victorian State Committee and will be considered by the Officers Committee on 14 November. I had not previously heard of the Officers Committee. I would like to know just what the Officers Committee is. Who are its members? Is it not a further duplication? There must be many projects being put forward. After all there are just on 900 municipalities in Australia at the present time. If I am any judge, a very high percentage of them have put forward submissions. Today is the first occasion on which I have had acceptance of a proposal which I have put forward. I think that some of these matters have been under consideration for quite some time. I am concerned, as are the municipalities about looking after the interests of those who are waiting for employment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is unfortunate that time will not allow me to go into the finer details of the Bills before the House, but I commence by saying that, like all other members on this side of the House, I support the Bills. 
However, there are a number of things that I should have liked to discuss in this debate. Unfortunately, time will not permit me to do so. But I do want to take up some of the points mentioned by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He referred to the time at which the activities under this Bill will expire, that being late next year. The point that the honourable member raised is a very imprtant one, and I am a little disappointed that the Minister at the table at the time did not give him any indication of whether it would be automatically extended beyond that period. I would again appeal to the Minister to look at this point. Even if he cannot give the House a decision tonight perhaps he could give one before the Bill passes the Senate. I have a rather large home in my electorate known as the Lutheran Home, which is in Horsham in Victoria. It was about to extend its provision of 24 beds by a further 50 beds. 
Because this home is run by a State organisation, unfortunately it is not easy for it to make decisions at short notice. This is natural enough in view of the fact that it has to go through various authorities within its own organisation. It has so turned out now that by the time it makes up its mind as to what is required, costs have increased to a degree where it is necessary to increase the amount of money required. Now I have reached the stage where I am not too sure, and up to date no one has been able to give me the answer, as to what the limit is in relation to the erection of these individual homes. It is said around the corridors that there is an upper limit of $15,000. Surely the Minister can tell us what the upper limit is. I would like to know how far I could go if I were in charge of an organisation that wanted to erect some homes. I would want to know whether I could build a home costing more than $15,000. 
This brings me to the question of the increase in the subsidy from $2 for $ 1 to $4 for $ 1 . 1 think that when this was first announced some weeks or months ago most people appreciated very much that the Minister was very sympathetic to the situation and that we were moving from a $2 for $1 era to a $4 for $1 era. When they stopped and analysed the situation they realised that there is an upper limit on the grant that is being made available by the Government. In that case, the $4 for $1 subsidy becomes ineffective, as the honourable member for Hotham said earlier in this debate. In actual fact the figures that he presented proved the point that it was much closer to the old $2 for $1 rate than it was to the $4 for $1 rate which the Minister suggested that it would be. 
It is unfortunate that we cannot debate in detail one other point, and that is in regard to the various amounts allotted by the Government for the various types of homes that are being built. This becomes terribly confusing. We have an Aged Persons Homes Act and an Aged Persons Hostels Act. Two different rates altogether apply in each case. People outside this place- no doubt one could include people within this place also- do not know what the difference is. The Minister has not been able to explain this in detail. I do not know why. 
He may be one of the people who does not know. I thank the honourable member for the interjection. However, when he replies to the debate I hope that he can give us an indication as to what the difference is. In his second reading speech on the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill the Minister said: 
As from the date of royal assent of this Bill the maximum subsidy limits payable under the new Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act will automatically become $9,360 for a single unit and $ 10,920 for a double unit. 
Why must we wait until the date of royal assent? This proposal was announced on Budget night. We were told then that there would be an increase. Why cannot the Minister automatically say: 'Well, we will back-date this to the night of the original announcement'. I make this appeal to the Minister and trust that he will give consideration to just two or three of the points that I have raised. I am sorry that I have not got the time to go into a lot of detail because I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  wants to associate himself with this legislation. I am prepared to forego some of my time to give him an opportunity to do so. I trust that the Minister in the last two or three minutes of the debate will be able to answer some of the questions that have been put to him by honourable members from this side of the chamber. 
I was amazed to hear the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  admit earlier in his remarks that the Australian Labor Party voters throughout Australia have not been educated to the same extent as the people who vote the other way. This to me is- 
That is exactly what the honourable member said. He went on to criticise the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  suggesting that all the people who voted for those who sit on this side of the House are highly educated. He even got to the stage of calling us millionaire farmers. So I still repeat that that is what the honourable member for Corio said. I am sure that if he looks at his greens or at Hansard tomorrow he will probably change his view oh what he really said. I was surprised at him saying it and no doubt some of his constituents in the electorate of Corio will be somewhat disappointed with him. 
We are tonight debating a Bill known as the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974. 1 want to say at the outset that there are in this BUI many amendments that I support. I cannot agree with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  who put forward the suggestion that because there are members of the Liberal and Country Parties who support some of the amendments we should therefore support the BUI as a whole. This to me is ridiculous. As I said, I support quite a few of the amendments. 
We will come to that directly; be patient. But there are many of the amendments that I do not support. For instance, by way of illustration, if a person carried out 99 very good deeds and was respected because he did so but then on the 100th occasion he decided he was going to rob a bank, would that absolve him from guilt? That is exactly what the members on the Government side are trying to say. 
Maybe that is the way they think, I do not know. But of the 34 major amendments there are a mighty lot that I do support. I have not got time to go through all of them, but I want to mention a few. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech summarised these 34 amendments. I think the very first amendment referred to by the Minister related to the optional preferential marking of ballot papers, which is provided for in clauses 45 and 46 of the Bill. I am sure that a number of members on this side of the chamber have spelt out the reasons why they oppose optional preferential voting. There is no doubt in my mind and I am sure in the minds of many people that the present preferential system is the fairest system we could possibly have for elections. If optional preferential voting is what the Labor Party calls a democratic vote, all I can say is that it is horribly like democratic socialism. The word 'democratic' is used, but for what purpose I am not too sure. 
Of course it is a misnomer. I will oppose optional preferential voting wherever possible. As I have said, the present system is the fairest one we could have and there is no good reason why we should opt out of it. After all, if the honourable member for Corio is correct, people cannot count up to 4, 5 or 6 as they would be required to do if casting a vote for the House of Representatives. As the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  mentioned, this raises the question as to whether those people are really entitled to cast a vote. 
I said if they could not count up to 4, 5 or 6. That is certainly nothing like the problem that the honourable member for Corio posed. He said that his supporters were uneducated completely. There are a lot of other clauses I would like to deal with so I will leave the matter of optional preferential voting because I believe it has been fairly well covered. The second and third amendments in the Minister's summary are:  printing or party affiliations of candidates on ballotpapers; registration of political parties for purposes of identification and printing of affiliations on ballot papers; 
Proposed new section 5 8d, set out in clause 2 1 , is rather interesting. When the Minister summarised all the important issues, he did not bother to include this one. But he referred to it later on in his second reading speech. The proposed new section really deals with parties to be recognised officially as parties for the purposes of having their names appear on the ballot paper. It will not take me long to read the relevant portion. 
If the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  looks at the Bill he will find that I am referring to clause 21, proposed new section 58d( 1 ), paragraph (a) which states: 
in the case of an election of a Member of the House of Representatives ... a party qualifies in respect of an election only if- for a Division in a State to be held at a general election of Members of that Housethe number of candidates endorsed by the party in respect or elections Tor the Division in the State (including the first-mentioned election) is not less than one-quarter of the whole number of Divisions in that State: 
Paragraph (b) explains the position with regard to the Senate. Paragraph (c) then refers to the situation with regard to by-elections. The provisions to which I have referred plus the remainder of the proposed new section 58D. form a very loaded section. The honourable member for Shortland shakes his head and does not agree. Twenty-five per cent of the various electorates will have to be contested by a Party before that Party is recognised. I make no apologies with regard to Victoria where the Country Party holds 6 seats out of 34. This really means that to qualify as a political party, for the purposes of having our candidates' political affiliation printed on ballot papers we would have to contest 9 seats. I can guess why the Minister included this amendment. He must understand the situation in Victoria because, as most people realise, the Country Party contests country electorates. In Victoria in particular this is so. The strange thing about this is that not one country electorate there is held by the Labor Party. Therefore, what the Minister wants is to have some Country Party contests with the Liberal Party so that we can then get our numbers up to the required nine in that State. That is why this clause is included. Some months ago the Minister made a statement to the effect that when the redistribution proposals were brought forward members of the Country Party would have a heart attack. He knew what he was talking about. He deliberately framed this Bill and the Electoral Bill for that very purpose. 
Let me turn to some of the other proposals because, after all, I said I would agree with some of them. It is proposed to introduce mobile polling booths at hospitals and similar institutions. I have advocated this for a long time and I certainly support it, so I need say no more about that. It is proposed to close polls at 6 p.m. The Minister and many other Government supporters have been very vocal about trying to speed up the elections. This is one instance where I agree with them. I believe that if the polling booths were closed at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. the decision that we normally wait for until midnight or 1 a.m. should be known, in theory, 2 hours earlier. I support this proposal. Queensland has it in its State elections and, as far as I can gather, there is very little criticism of that procedure. 
I think the requirement relating to a candiate who changes his name within 12 months prior to nomination is another satisfactory alteration to the Act. I am not sure what is meant by 'an earlier deadline for the return of postal votes and for the return of postal votes direct to respective returning officers'. Does this mean that postal votes will have to be returned to all returning officers by the close of the poll? That is my understanding from my reading of the Bill. What happens in an emergency? It is also proposed to increase the fine for people who do not cast a vote. To my mind the proposal for the return of postal votes is completely impractical. 
The Minister points out that the vote must be made before the closing of the poll. What does that mean if a person is out of his electorate? 
To the returning officers? 
I do not suggest that voting should be permitted after the closing of polls. There are many people who may be affected by this proposal. It will be all right for people living in the Minister's electorate of Grayndler where it is only a 5 minute walk to the returning officer. But there are many country electorates where it takes literally days to get a postal vote to a particular constituent and back again. 
That is right. How in the name of fortune will these people lodge their votes? Therefore, I am afraid that I must strongly oppose this provision. Another provision refers to prohibiting the listing of names of persons who apply for postal votes, except in specified circumstances. I cannot see any reason for a postal vote to be made public so I support that proposal. It is also proposed to provide postal voting facilities for prisoners who have retained their franchise entitlements. I am not sure about this provision. I think the non-provision of such votes could be classified as one of the penalties of serving a sentence. I make no further comment on that proposal. 
The honourable member cannot think I am speaking for a joke. Of course I mean what I say and make no apologies for saying it. The increase in the amount of the deposit required for nomination from $100 to $250, I think, is a Utile steep. I feel quite strongly that a lot of members on the Government side would think likewise. It is not easy for a candidate, irrespective of where he comes from, what he does or the Party with which he is affiliated, to put up $250 in cash. He cannot write out a cheque. I think that if the deposit were increased by a moderate amount it would be acceptable to a lot more people. 
I think that if the figure were doubled from $100 to $200 that would be ample. I would certainly favour $150 in preference to $ 100. The candidate has to put up the deposit in cash. The returning officer, as aU members know, returns the deposit by cheque. I recite a rather peculiar instance. On one occasion I collected my cheque and presented it to the nearest bank, which was opposite the polling booth, and the bank refused to cash it. After a lot of talking, I managed to get it cashed. 
Precluding nomination for election to the Australian Parliament by a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory, I think, is a good amendment because it brings those members into line with the many other people who must resign from certain positions they hold if they wish to contest a Federal election. It is a case of doing away with a form of discrimination, if it could have been classified as such. Prevention of a person from nominating as a candidate for more than one Federal election held on the same day, I think, would be fairly popular. There is no dispute with that. Protection of candidates against the issue of misleading how-to-vote cards is another amendment. There is no doubt about the need for that protection, and I support the amendment. The elimination of the need to state the address of an author in the case of broadcasting or telecasting of political matters is an amendment about which, if my interpretation is right, I would be concerned because there may be certain libel cases. Naturaly if one wanted to issue a writ one would want to know against whom it should be issued. 
I see that my time is rapidly running out. There are one or two other matters on which I would like to speak. I support the amendment regarding the responsibility for publication of matter or comment of a political nature in the Press between the issue of the writ and the close of the poll. I believe that we throw too much onus on the editors of certain newspapers. Therefore, this should be removed. The authorisation of certain political matters could be a dangerous amendment. I hope that the Minister can give us an assurance that there will be no loop holes in this one. The lowering of the permissible age for presiding officers or assistant presiding officers to 18 years is another amendment. I am not opposed to the reduction in the voting age to 18 years in accordance with the Electoral Act, but I am a little concerned that a person could be made a presiding officer at the age of 18 years. This could be very dangerous. I would think that the officers of the Department would want to look very closely at that amendment. The increase in penalties for failure to enrol is another amendment. The way in which this Bill is being put makes it very hard for a lot of people to cast a vote in the event of an emergency. Therefore, I think this provision is a bit severe. 
I would have liked to have said a lot of things. I see that my Whip is indicating to me very pointedly that the time in which I can make my contribution has just about expired. I will conclude by saying that while I support the bulk of the provisions in the Bill I have no alternative but to oppose it in its entirety because of one or two issues which have been included. I certainly support the postponement of the consideration of the Bill so that we on this side of the House can have a thorough look at it and get some indication from the Minister and officers of the Department as to whether some of the things I have mentioned would be worth looking at and keeping in mind so that those people who find themselves in embarrassing situations will certainly not be penalised in this true democratic system that we have at present. 
I am rather reluctant to rise in my place this evening but I feel that I should like to support my colleague, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in criticism of the outburst of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  earlier in this debate. I was rather amazed that the honourable member for Adelaide whom I thought was a pretty cool, calm type of member should personally attack and abuse the leaders of both the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party concerning actions that they had taken previously in this chamber. 
It is pretty obvious that the honourable member for Adelaide has completely forgotten what the situation was when he, as a member of the Labor Party, was in Opposition. The honourable member for Lyne rightly reminded the House of the disturbances that had taken place from time to time brought about by members of the Labor Party. I had no intention of reminding the Government of such distasteful actions that took place years ago but when the honourable member for Adelaide decides to criticise the members of this side of the House in the Liberal Party and the Country Party, I am sure that these matters should be brought to his notice.  Mr Speaker,  you in your position as the honourable member for Sydney have no doubt been threatened by various Speakers and Chairmen for some of your minor actions. This is not unknown to any member. Therefore, the honourable member for 
Adelaide should be ashamed of himself for introducing such matters. To suggest that we carried on like a rabble- I forget all the expressions that he used - 
-' Rowdyism' was one word. I thank the honourable member for Adelaide. 
-And 'larrikinism'. Evidently the honourable member's memory is not very lengthy because I have full recollections of the times when his colleagues were on this side of the House and were equally as noisy. The point I wish to raise in particular is that there are numerous occasions when members of the Opposition are provoked into trying to make some sort of protest against what goes on in the chamber. After all, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  as the Minister in charge of the business of the House, has said frequently: 'You can say what you like. You may have right on your side, but we win because we have the numbers. ' How often have we heard the Minister make this statement? That is hardly conducive to getting full co-operation from members of the Opposition parties. Is it any wonder that we show our objection, even by loud interjection, to various members and particularly Ministers when they are making some statements? 

 Mr Speaker, I know that you will not allow me to talk about debates that are in progress, but some of the statements that were made by the Minister for Services and Property tonight in summing up one of the Bills to my mind were completely ridiculous because we all know that they were false. For instance, I indicated quite categorically where I stood on a certain issue. I indicated that I was supporting 80 per cent or even 90 per cent of the Bill. There were only a couple of matters that I could not support but the Minister then accused me and all the members on this side of the House of opposing the Bill. 
-He takes the matter far too far. I felt that I could not remain in this chamber tonight without at least making some explanation to those people who may care to read Hansard tomorrow or at some time in the future. I say again to the honourable member for Adelaide that he would get little kudos by introducing the subject matter which he did tonight and by abusing the leaders of both the Liberal Party and Country Party on this side of the House. 
It is not a case of abusing the Standing Orders at all. What the honourable member is really saying is that the only people in this place who abuse or disregard the Standing Orders are those members on this side of the House. He knows very will that that is incorrect. There are just as many faults on the Government side.  Mr Speaker,  I do not want to accuse you of being biased but naturally enough we all appreciate that you have better hearing on your left than your right. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many people have been registered for unemployment in each State for each month from July 1973 to October 1974. 
What was the total cost in each State of payments in the form of unemployment relief in each of the same months. 

 -Mr Chairman, 1 want to speak to clause 14 in relation to interest ratesMr Nicholls- I move: 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the question be now put.  Consideration interrupted. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. The Minister will recall an announcement by the Minister for Agriculture recently to the effect that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had purchased some 10,000 tons of Australian beef. Since that time it has been reported that the sale has fallen through. I ask the Minister whether he is in a position to indicate whether the report is correct. If it is correct, why has the sale fallen through? Does the Government intend to take any action to try to rectify the disastrous position in which the meat industry finds itself today? 
I rise tonight to speak- and it appears that it will be very briefly- on the adjournment debate. I do so as a conclusion to the three or four previous occasions on which I would have liked to raise this subject. Tonight I see that I have about 6 minutes to complete what I would have preferred to have about 10 minutes to do. So I intend to commence my remarks tonight in the hope that some time before the House adjourns for the Christmas recess I will be able to complete my remarks on this subject. What I wish to speak about,  Mr Speaker  - 
Yes, it does appear that it is going to be a serial. The adjournment debate is the only opportunity I get to raise this subject. In particular, I want to speak about meat prices and particularly the price that the grazier is securing for his livestock. This is a very important issue and one which is concerning many producers throughout the length and breadth of this country. Last year the price of beef was such that many Government supporters wanted to introduce legislation that would curb the price of meat somewhat. They wanted to introduce some form of export levy. This was because of the world demand at that time, and in particular for beef. Today the situation is reversed. Prices on international markets are running at an all-time low. I give as an example the prices quoted by the Department of Agriculture as at 8 November 1973 as compared with those of 7 November 1 974, just one year later. Bullocks weighing up to 280 kilos were selling at 32c to 35c a kilo compared with 95c to 99c a kilo just 12 months earlier. Yearlings up to 180 kilos in weight were selling at 38c to 40c a kilo as compared with 97c to 10 lc a kilo 12 months earlier, which is roughly one-third the price. Since that date I can assure the House that livestock prices have continued to fall at a rate of up to $5 to $ 10 per beast per week. 
Last week the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred to the increased production of certain commodities in Australia since the change of Government and how successful the Government has been in securing overseas markets. I wonder why the Minister did not mention beef or meat? Perhaps the real answer is that he knows the Government has done nothing about it and has done nothing to rectify this disastrous situation in which it now finds itself. One could well ask the question: How many people in Australia today are prepared to accept one-third of their income as compared with last year as the beef producers are expected to do right at this very time? 
I would remind the House that while there are many people who because of Government action have lost their jobs or been shifted to other jobs and to other types of employment, even retraining, this is not the answer for the grazier. Irrespective of whether he is big or small, he just cannot turn the tap on or off as these other people can do. To produce stock for sale is a slow process and it takes years to build up a herd. If graziers give their jobs away it will be a long time before the situation can be returned to normal. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  told the United Nations recently that Australia would do all possible to assist in the production of foodstuffs and so help ease starvation. This is a challenge but I think the Government has not accepted it. 
What is the answer to this overall problem? It is recognised at present that the price is so low because of the lack of overseas sales, and that stock numbers are building up both in Australia and other countries. It is also reported that there is some increase in meat in cold storage and it is only natural that while overseas buyers can see such huge quantities of livestock coming onto the market they are going to offer a price in accordance with these conditions. It is my considered opinion that because of necessity we will have to try to counter this situation, possibly in 2 or even 3 ways. One is the sale of meat at a price that hungry countries can afford to pay, and the other is to assist in a form of storage in large quantities, thereby removing the amount of meat that is available for marketing purposes and at the same time build up a reserve, for the time will shortly be with us when there is a shortage of meat throughout the world. 
I believe the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Government can assist in both these programs. The Government does not hesitate to spend money on unemployment retraining, and it subsidises those industries in difficulties. We have heard numerous announcements on this assistance. So why not consider some expenditure on this industry- I refer to the meat industry- for it will show a handsome return in the long term. If the Government would put $50m towards overseas sales, then our surplus stocks would be reduced considerably. Or if it put a similar amount of money into the construction and maintenance of cold storage facilities it could well have some effect. 
I am informed that cold storage today costs in the vicinity of $100 per tonne per year. If $50m were spent on providing cold storage facilities it would cater for some 3 million head of cattle. 
This would not be money provided in the form of a grant but rather it would be an investment for the Government, the industry and the world as a whole. It is well accepted that the price of meat will rise substantially in the next year or so, and I think this is good insurance. It appears the Government has Med to impress such countries as Japan and the European Economic Community areas, in its efforts to dispose of Australia's meat, and whilst there is some talk going on with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics we could well have lost this market to countries such as the Argentine which, it is reported, has made an agreement to dispose of some 30,000 tonnes per year for a start, building up to 100,000 tonnes annually. We are certainly missing out. 
I appeal to the Government to consider the serious situation of the meat industry, and to treat it as a matter of urgency. It was only a few weeks ago that the Caucus Resources Committee met representatives of the Australian National Cattlemen's Association who proposed that finance totalling some $50m be made available to this industry. My time is exhausted and I will conclude by saying that at the present time we have heard of no result following this proposal. I want to know why. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise tonight in support of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in his endeavour to rectify the unemployment situation throughout Australia at the present time. I regret that the Minister has just walked out of the chamber. However, I would like to put forward a suggestion to him and to the Government that all is not well in this field despite the endeavours of the Minister. Today I was informed that the applications from people for unemployment relief are not being handled as speedily as they should be. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware that there is a great deal of criticism in Victoria against his Government's Regional Employment Development Scheme as well as substantial delay in payments of unemployment relief, particularly to those who are classified as being retrenched because of Government decisions? Is it true that the Department can process only about 25 per cent of the applications which are coming in for unemployment relief and that naturally the delay is becoming greater? Is it also true that the Department's decision on the RED scheme is recognised as too slow because too many committees have to approve of the various works proposed? Will the Minister reconsider the overall situation with a view to introducing a scheme similar to the drought relief scheme of the previous Government? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of each of his visits abroad since December 1972. 
) What countries did he visit. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Under what criteria does an industry qualify to have its dismissed personnel paid on retrenchment basis. 
What industries have been accepted as those who qualify for special retrenchment payments. 
3 ) Have any industries applied for and been rejected for retrenchment payments; if so which ones. 
I am surprised at the reaction this evening of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I think most members in this chamber would be most perturbed at the reaction of the honourable member following the statements made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  - 
-Last night I rose to answer a statement made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  earlier during the adjournment debate. Before I even got started the honourable member for Corio took a point of order. As a result I had less than a minute in which to answer him. I would like to take the opportunity tonight to inform the honourable member for Corio of the true situation rather than allow the misguided statement he tried to put over the House last night to stand. The honourable member for Corio said: 
A clear campaign  is  being mounted in this country in the State parliaments and in this Parliament to end democratic government for ever in Australia. That campaign is being led by the Country Party. The Liberal Party, which has most to lose in such an event, is being led by the nose. Although, in Queensland, elections no longer take place to elect governments. There is no way in which governments can be changed in Queensland by the electoral process. Such is the manipulation of the electoral laws in Queensland that the present Premier and his Party could win an absolute majority in the Queensland Parliament with 33 per cent of the total votes in that State. 
That is a very misleading statement and I rise tonight to try to rectify it. I am sorry that the honourable member for Corio is not in the chamber. No doubt he will have his public address system in operation. I hope he has. 
The honourable member for Corio raised the question of the recent Queensland State election. I am a little surprised that he raised this matter, particularly in view of the fact that it was a disastrous result for the Australian Labor Party. He criticised the Country Party and the Premier of Queensland because they had such a low percentage of votes. The actual facts are these: The seats contested by the National Party of Queensland a few months ago totalled 48. Of those 48 seats contested the National Party won 39. That was not a bad effort at all. The Liberal Party contested 53 seats and won 30 seats. Again, that is a pretty good effort. The Australian Labor Party contested every seat in Queensland. What did it finish up with? It finished up with 1 1 seats. If we speak of percentages, the vote of the 
National Party of Queensland was about 48 per cent in the seats contested. I am now referring to the primary vote only and not to the preferences that were counted as a result of three or four cornered contests. 
When the honourable member for Corio makes a statement in this chamber he should get his facts correct. If he is concerned about the result in Queensland and the fact that the Australian Labor Party won only 1 1 out of 82 seats contested, he ought to stay at home and do a little homework to try to get a few facts and figures that the people of Queensland and the people of Australia are prepared to accept. I issue a warning to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  who appears to be running on lines similar to those of the Labor Party in Queensland. 
I want to raise another point tonight. A number of people have spoken to me about the excessive expenditure by the present Labor Government. It is not a case of only the odd person raising this; it is being raised by many people. I refer first of all to an advertisement which has appeared in many newspapers. Strange as it may seem when an advertisement appears in a newpaper, irrespective of whether it is in a country or a metropolitan area, naturally enough it means income for that newspaper, but I am amazed at the number of editors who have made reference to this advertisement. Virtually they have said: 'This is pretty good stuff; do not stop it. But we do not believe in the principle'. I have the advertisement with me. 
It does not matter which newspaper it was in; it was in most country newspapers. 
I will tell the honourable member a bit more about the advertisement. The people are complaining because it is the taxpayers' money that is being spent to advertise the achievements or actions taken by this Government. The advertisement I referred to is headed: Two reasons why your pay packet can be bigger in 1975 '. It depicts a graph and mentions tax deductions on home loan interest payments and there is a reference to income tax rates being reduced by the Australian Government. What this Government is doing is advertising itself, not the Australian Parliament where the final decision is made. In other words, the Government is advertising the Labor Party. This is what the people object to. I see no large advertisements, paid for by the taxpayers, presenting the views of the Liberal Party, the Country Party or any other political party. Only the Labor Party is being advertised. There are many people throughout the length and breadth of Australia who are very critical of this. 
I also have with me a booklet entitled 'Report 74' and sub-titled 'A statement made in the House of Representatives by the Prime Minister, the Honourable E. G. Whitiam, Q.C., M.P., on Thursday, 5 December 1974'. Many honourable members will recall that occasion. We saw the Prime Minister standing at the Table. He went on hour after hour and all of this report is incorporated in Hansard. Those of us who were in this chamber, and virtually compelled to stay here because it was the close of the final parliamentary session in 1974, thought it was bad enough having to listen to the Prime Minister, let alone having to read it in Hansard, but now we are issued with this document. I do not think it would have been paid for by the Labor Party nor would it have been paid for by the Prime Minister, so therefore it must have been paid for by the Government with taxpayers' money. 
I would not have a clue what it cost but it is a very nice document. It even has a photograph of the Prime Minister on page 2. Glossy paper has been used. The report is set out very nicely. But anybody who wants to read what the Prime Minister had to say can get it from the Hansard record. This wastefulness is the sort of thing that people object to. Having said that I point out that I do not want to criticise all Government actions in relation to the printing of documents, pamphlets, booklets, call them what you may. I also have with me a document entitled 'Monthly Review of the Employment Situation, October 1974' from the Department of Labor and Immigration. It is a very valuable document and no doubt it is paid for out of taxpayers' funds. Another booklet I have here is the annual report from the Department of Science and again this is paid for by the taxpayers. I believe that this is a document that is of great value to the people and I would not suggest for one moment that its production be discontinued. Turning to a larger document, I have here a copy of the 'Australian Government Digest 1.4'. It so happens that this is the 1973 edition. 
This is fair enought but I cannot see in any of these reports an account of what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said or what any front bench member or the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has said. Everything in these reports deals with the 
Labor Party or members of the Government. I think that if the taxpayers are to be called on to pay for documents like these they are entitled to a greater coverage of the Parliament. I wonder how many people read these reports; I do not know. I would challenge the  Chairman  of the Printing Committee to tell this House how many of these documents are printed every time they are released. The Government is not satisfied with giving members one copy; they give them 2 copies. I do not even read one copy so how am I going to read the second one? I say that these are the sorts of things which somebody should examine when considering Government expenditure. 
When I leave this place and go back to my electorate I find almost every day of the week people come to me -no doubt this applies to other members too- saying: 'How long can this continue? How much is this going to cost? Who is footing the bill?' Government decisions have created large pools of unemployment and the Department of Labor and Immigration is introducing retraining schemes that have very little chance of success. To the best of my knowledge this is costing in the vicinity of $700m or $ 1,000m of taxpayers' money a year. Is it any wonder that the people of Australia are now having second thoughts about where they will cast their vote at the next election? I am confident that the result in Queensland a few weeks ago, where the Labor Party retained eleven out of 33 seats, was no sheer accident. It was a deliberate decision taken by the people in that State because they certainly had no confidence in the Labor Government here in Canberra. I have put forward these suggestions tonight for consideration by the Government. 
I rise this evening because of a reply which was given to a question asked on notice in this chamber by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  It relates to the beef industry. The first part of the question was: 
With reference to the urgent need for assistance to the beef industry in Australia, will the Minister consider the establishment of a Commission empowered to purchase surplus beef for the purpose of storage until suitable markets are located. 
The answer to that part of the question was: 
-In the few minutes that Government supporters have left me there are one or two things I would like to say about this Bill. 
I will not take all my time because I assured the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I would give him ample time to conclude this debate before the sitting was suspended. However, I am a little disappointed with some Government speakers who perhaps overstepped their mark a little. I want to refer firstly to the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I believe that he summed up the real reasons for the introduction of this Bill. He made great play of the multi-nationals and the Liberal and Country Parties having more funds than the Labor Party. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  started talking about buying political support. If one puts these 2 issues together it is obvious that one of the reasons why the Government has introduced this Bill is that it believes that outside this place it cannot match the Opposition parties in any way in getting office so it will try to do it through legislation. 
In this House last night I spoke about cheap political propaganda. This was mentioned again this afternoon by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  I draw attention to a simple little card about community relations which states: 'Nice people come in all coloursAustralian Government'. That looks pretty good until one turns it over and sees where is comes from. On the back is a photo of a certain gentleman with his wife and family, a former member of this chamber, the honourable A. J. Grassby, who is now an appointed officer. We do not employ his family, so why should we get cheap - 
Yes, of course it is a scandalous waste of taxpayers' money. I am informed that Government sources paid for that Christmas card. Another point I want to raise is in answer to a number of Government speakers who made allegations of a great contribution of funds to the Australian Country Party. I will venture to say that most individual contributions on a dollar basis are given to political parties other than the Australian Country Party. In other words what I am trying to say is this: The Country Party's campaign funds are dependent on individual membership of the Party and there are very few donations outside that. 
Under the present Act, in accordance with the provisions laid down some years ago, a candidate is permitted to spend $500 in a campaign and he must put in a return within so many days after the election. As far as the parties are concerned the funds are unlimited. The Minister for 
Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in his own words, said that this provision is being ignored. I agree with him. Why do they ignore it? This is the all-important point. The simple reason is that the candidates are unable to run a campaign on such a miserable sum of money. Of course this Bill proposes to increase the amount according to the number of constituents within an electorate and specifies the amount that may be contributed by the candidate and by the Party, with different amounts according to whether the election is for the House of Representatives or for the Senate. If an electorate contained 50 000 electors a candidate would be entitled to spend $2,500 and the party would be entitled to spend a further $3,750, a total of $6,250. 
There are any amount of electorates throughout Australia in which it is absolutely impossible, on today's costings to run a campaign for that figure. I mention the average country electorate which may have up to 20 newspapers. If one looks at the cost of advertising at $1.50 an inch and works out how much a reasonable amount of advertising would cost one will find that one could not do much for less than $300 per paper. Multiply that by 20 and see what is the result. There are how to vote cards which would cost about $ 1,000. No honourable member can run a campaign without having a pamphlet. That accounts for another $1,000. What does that total? I have not even mentioned radio, television, hall hire, postage and all those sorts of things. It is absolutely impossible to conduct a campaign on this budget. So this legislation will force people to try to campaign either in a dishonest way or to carry out a very poor campaign. 
I will agree that if every party were to expend no money at all we would still get a similar result. Nevertheless, we are not prepared to do that. Now that the Government has decided that it will introduce a redistribution plan to enlarge many of the country electorates, where some country electorates might have had 20 newspapers- if they were anything like some of the ones in Victoria such as the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  who will take over some of the electorate of Wimmera- they will finish up with about 30 newspapers. How could a candidate campaign on these amounts as outlined? Really what will happen is that the Bill will force candidates to appoint agents. No doubt any genuine, honest agent will not be able to make the declaration required, so he will carry out a pretty poor campaign. Virtually, what we are doing is inviting outside, irresponsible people to take part in campaigns, make statements in support of candidates, make donations on the quiet and all those sons of things. I believe that we will do more damage by the introduction of this Bill than we would if we were to leave the situation as it now stands. 
It is all very well for honourable members in some electorates. For example, I refer to the Minister for Services and Property. Dear oh dear, the Minister would not even need to hand out a how-to-vote card in his electorate and he would still win the election handsomely because he holds a blue ribbon Labor seat. The people in that electorate do not know how to vote any different way. I do not know how the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  will carry out efficient campaigns. I might add that during the campaigns for the next election they will not want to spend a similar figure to what they spent during the last election campaign. They will need to add another nought to the figure that they spent otherwise they will not see which way the Liberal candidates went. 
Personally, I have no objection to making public the donations to political parties. I am proud of the money that flows into Country Party funds. It is absolutely clean money with no strings attached. As I said before, the bulk of it is collected from individual members within the Party. Make no mistake about it; this Bill sets up the machinery for a real Australian Watergate. I ask honourable members to mark by words. If this Bill is introduced within a few years we will see plenty of Watergate-type incidents in Australia. The Bill represents an infringment of the rights of the individual. It will squeeze people out of political life and bring about the establishment of the old principle that the Labor Party of today wants. It wants a 2 -party system finishing up with a one-party system as soon as it gets the opportunity to do so. 
What will it mean if this Bill is implemented. Does it mean that we should carry through its principles to State elections, municipal elections, union elections and all sorts of other elections? If an example is set in this place, of course it must be carried through. The Australian Labor Party is quite happy to accept the way the trade union movement carries out its elections but it wants a different set of circumstances to apply when it has strong opposition from parties like the Liberal and Country Parties. I am sorry that I cannot make further comments on this matter because there are a lot of other things I wanted to say tonight. I promised the Minister that I would finish my speech in less then 10 minutes and that is what I do. I oppose this Bill as strongly as I possibly can. 
All right. I did not mention which countries were cheaper. His answer was only off the cuff. He was challenged on his statement that New Zealand was able to dispose of cheaper superphosphate. No doubt if we looked around we would probably find other countries which are getting it cheaper. 
-A11 right. What do we pay in this country? Something tike $54. When the LiberalCountry Party Government went out of office, what were we paying? About $14 a ton. There has been an increase of almost 300 per cent in a couple of years. The Prime Minister said that Australia was getting the cheapest superphosphate in the world. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is another one who made a misleading statement. In answer to a question this week he said that the Government was subsidising this industry to the extent of $70m a year. From the way he spoke one would think that the Government was directly subsidising it. I realise that we are fortunate to be able to get some phosphate rock from overseas at a very cheap rate, but that is not being supplied directly by the Government. Again I say that the Minister's statement was misleading. 
The beef industry is in dire straits today. If we were to have very dry or very cold conditions in some of the southern areas in the next 3 months, I foresee absolutely millions of cattle being allowed to die or being shot on properties. If that is not a serious situation, I have never seen one. Members of the Government sit here and do absolutely nothing. It is about time they did. Tonight I want to draw the Government's attention to this position. I believe that if the Government does not do something we will have a lot of problems. Returning to the superphosphate question, I am reminded of the large number of people who are unemployed following the lack of demand because of price. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! It being 11 p.m. the House stands adjourned until 2. 1 5 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
I thank the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  for cutting his time to allow me to say a few words on the Appropriation Bills before the final decision on them is made by the House. I take this opportunity to say to the honourable member that he has little fear that there will be any opposition from this side of the House in relation to the question that he has just been discussing. I think I can say with confidence that all members on this side join with him in their concern with the problems of his State and also with the problems that have resulted from the Darwin disaster. 
In the few minutes available to me I want to speak basically to Appropriation Bill (No. 3). The appropriations for the Department of Labor and Immigration indicate that over $142m will be spent by the Department under subdivision 3., item 15. 'Structural Adjustment AssistanceIncome Maintenance', and item 16. 'Regional Employment Development Scheme'. This part of the legislation naturally concerns me. Speaker after speaker on the Government side has compared this country with other countries. They seem to forget that a few years ago Australia was in the very fortunate position of having very low inflation and comparatively low unemployment. Whenever reference is made to inflation or unemployment today Government supporters seem to pick the country with the highest rate of inflation or unemployment and say: 'Well, we are better than that'. There is no doubt that if this Government continues in office both of these situations will deteriorate rather rapidly. The true value of the dollar, of course, is what the dollar will buy. I am amused that the Government should continue to claim that wages have increased at a greater rate than community prices because if this is the case someone has to make up the difference somewhere along the line. I can give a good example of where I think the difference lies. One can see where the difference lies if one has a close look at the report of the Austraiian Bureau of Statistics for January 1975. 1 seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard half of page 9 of this report. 
I rise to indicate my agreement with what has been stated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  on this important occasion. I was rather interested in the comments of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  After he had completed his remarks I was not too sure just what he meant. I took it from what he said that tomorrow we will dispense with private members' business and discuss the Family Law Bill. I also took it that he implied that we would deal with the Family Law BDI for some 3 hours. Is that correct? 
I would like to know what he means by that, because he went on to say that 3 1 members desired to speak on the Family Law Bill. We spent the whole of Friday of last week discussing the Family Law Bill and in actual fact 19 members took part in the debate. If we could get through only 19 speakers in a whole day, what does the Leader of the House really mean by saying that the debate tomorrow will continue for 3 hours and that 3 1 members desire to speak in it? This concerns me. After all, I think that every honourable member is very interested 'in this matter and would like either to speak on the subject matter or to cast his vote one way or another. I am not taking sides at this stage. I should like to have some assurance that we will discuss the Family Law Bill for 3 hours or 4 hours or that we will finish the debate because, after all, as I have said some members would like to speak on the subject and they do not know what priority they have. My name has been on the list of those wishing to speak on this subject, but I do not know how far down the list I am. I do not know whether I will get an opportunity to speak tomorrow or at all. I think that before the motion that the Leader of the House has moved is agreed to, at least he ought to give us a clear indication of what he proposes to do. 
I agree with the honourable member for New England. After all private members' business comes up for debate only once a fortnight. I am conscious of the fact that tomorrow this House will rise for a period of 4 weeks and that the Thursday of the first week when we return will be devoted to Grievance Day. I have not added it up, but it will be five or six weeks before there will be an opportunity to discuss private members' business. As the honourable member for New England has pointed out, there are some important issues to discuss. I also agree with him when he said that a lot of Government business is not so important. As a matter of fact, if the people outside this Parliament were given the opportunity they would certainly give higher priority, firstly, to private members' business and, secondly, to the Family Law Bill than to Government business. 
I will not delay the House for any length of time and it is not my intention to go through all the ramifications of the problems of the motor industry but I want to refer to the Sales Tax Bill (No. 1 ), which deals with the alteration to the various rates. I will deal with Sales Tax Bill (No. 1) rather than 
Sales Tax Bill (No. 2) because they both cover the same period. I was horrified when I heard the announcement by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to the effect that there would be a reduction in the sales tax and that as from a certain date the sales tax would again be increased. I am sure that the Treasurer is very conscious of the importance of the fact that when alterations to tariffs are made they are made virtually without notice. In my opinion the same thing should apply in relation to the sales tax rates. 
The Government should be well aware of the problems it created by a premature announcement last year in relation to the superphosphate bounty. Surely it should learn from this that that created a lot of problems that would have been avoided had the Government not made an announcement that the superphosphate bounty would cease at a certain time. The same thing applies not so much to the reduction in the sales tax but rather to the increase as from 1 May. Perhaps it would be helpful if I read out the dates. On 29 January 1975 the sales tax on motor vehicles was reduced from 27½ per cent down to 1 5 per cent. On 1 May 1 975 it will be increased to 17½ per cent, on 1 June to 20 per cent, on 1 July to 22½ per cent, on 1 August to 25 per cent and on 1 September to 27½ per cent. What this is really doing is telling people that they should go out and buy a motor car today if they are interested in buying one but for heavens sake they should not wait too long. This is very effective as far as sales are concerned. It will be very effective until 1 May. 
The information that I have been able to secure from the trade is that there is now a waiting list in many areas because they cannot supply the vehicles. This will continue. The fortunate people will receive delivery before 1 May, the not so fortunate will wait until 1 June, those who are a little bit unlucky will wait until 1 July, those who are more unfortunate again will wait until 1 August and those who are dead unlucky will have to wait until after 1 September. What this will really mean- I make this forecast and remind the Treasurer of it- is that at the present time there is a demand for motor cars, and this is helping the industry a great deal. I compliment the Treasurer for taking this action. But to tell the people, to tell the world, that as from certain dates the Government will increase the price of motor cars means that they must rush in and buy now. My guess is- I do not think that I will be very far out- that between 1 September 1975 and, say, Christmas Day there will not be a motor car sold in this country. The long term effect on the motor industry will be far worse than the position today. In view of the fact that the Treasurer wants to have these Bills passed this evening I will conclude my remarks at this stage. But I repeat that it is too late, the Government cannot do anything about the matter. The Treasurer has made the announcement. But I caution him to avoid making such premature announcements as he has made on this occasion. 
I ask the Treasurer this question because of the failure of the Minister for Northern Development to answer satisfactorily the question asked recently by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. The Treasurer will no doubt recall that there have been a number of Ministers making statements to the effect that the Government has done everything that the Australian National Cattlemen's Council has asked in relation to the beef industry, including making money available at interest rates of 1 1½ per cent. Is the Minister aware of the statement made recently by an officer of the Council,  Mr Cameron,  to the effect that the Council was advised by the Government last August that if it asked for concessional rates of interest it would not get them and in fact it might not get anything at all? Now that  Mr Cameron  has made it perfectly clear that his Council is not happy with the Government's actions and that it has requested loans at reasonable rates of interest, will the Government accede to that request? 
-There are one or 2 points which I wish to raise. I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and reject the Bill as it has been introduced. I think I should say in the early stages of my remarks that the amendment is not quite what I would have liked. It has resulted in a certain amount of confusion among members of this chamber as well as people outside that if it were carried we would have no Bill. I do not believe that. I believe that the amendment is such that we could continue to prepare the Bill for some future occasion. It would be of great assistance. I believe that each member has a responsibility to his constituents to let them know exactly where he stands on this measure. I believe that the overwhelming majority of people certainly believe in the sancity and permanence of marriage to protect the actual future of the family unit. This is absolutely fundamental. 
To my mind, broadly speaking this Bill encourages divorce. If there is any contradiction of that statement I refer to one of the early speeches in this debate- the speech of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  While I do not want to have it said that I am opposed to divorce in certain circumstances, I cannot and will not support any move that will encourage it unnecessarily. Like the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  I am not a lawyer. I do not claim to have any legal knowledge or experience of divorce. However, since I have been a member of this place I have seen the breaking up of many families. This has been due to various reasons. I would hope that the overwhelming majority of people who take marriage vows do so in the firm belief that it is a lifetime contract. Despite what some gallup polls might say, I believe that the average person who marries believes that he or she is entering into a lifetime contract. The breaking up of a marriage usually occurs after a long period of marriage. There are a number of reasons. They have been mentioned frequently in the debate. They include desertion, adultery, cruelty or straight out incompatibility. 
Despite what some people  might think  or ov to me Australia is still recognised as a true democratic Christian country. The very basis of these features is linked to family life. De facto marriages, trial marriages and broken homes make some form of contribution to a standard of which no doubt we would not be very proud. While it can be said that divorce sometimes prevents these issues, we must not overlook the encouragement of premature marriages caused by the thought that if the couple do not agree the marriage will be dissolved in accordance with this Bill. In other words, many today, divorce tomorrow because it is simple. My belief is that many of these problems can be overcome by young people taking a responsible and well thought out line before taking the marriage vows. If divorce is made easier it is inevitable that these ties will break. 
There are several types of marriages. Clause 6 refers to polygamous marriages. I do not know the reason for including the clause. If a polygamous marriage can take place in another country and the parties to it are permitted to come to Australia and be recognised as an ordinary married couple, what is to prevent any person from leaving our shores and taking part in a polygamous marriage in a country in which such a performance is permitted? We think of de facto marriages. We think of trial marriages. We think of the true and the established marriages. Eventually, if this trend towards easier divorce were to continue, another category of marriage would be added. It would be nothing more than an animal marriage. That word may not be acceptable to some people, but watch the trend. This is what will happen with the various types of marriage to which I have referred. There are many clauses in the Bill about which I am not very happy. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was rounding off my remarks by suggesting that there are various types of marriage. I said  there was the established marriage, the polygamous marriage, the de facto marriage and the trial marriage, each in turn lowering our standards, and that we were allowed to slip further we would finish up with a fifth- a form of animal marriage. During the suspension I was amazed at the comments which resulted from that statement. I was asked what I meant by an animal marriage. I think the answer is pretty simple; it is no marriage at all. We have all heard the old cliche 'love 'em and leave 'em'. That is the trend that could develop if we allow our divorce and marriage laws to deteriorate much further. I still believe in the principle that we are a civilised country, and we in the male section of the community certainly respect the female section. May this never change. 
It is all very well for honourable members to suggest that there are many occasions when, if divorce were made easier, it would create less embarrassment. I venture to say that there are not too many members in this chamber who have not had some differences of opinion with their wife at some stage or other, except perhaps the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who took his marriage vows just a few weeks ago. I would excuse him, but basically I think I am right in saying that most members have had differences of opinion with their wife. Sometimes they would have lasted minutes, may be hours, days or weeks. If our divorce laws were such that if in the heat of an argument a person could pick up a telephone and contact someone about a divorce, before we knew where we were that person would go ahead with the divorce. 
While it is all very well to talk about marriage counselling, once you get to that stage in many instances, in my mind, it is too late. Marriage counselling no doubt would serve a great purpose if it could be done without the long-term thought of divorce. While no doubt there is room for divorce reform, this is only natural. This applies to all our laws. To my mind this Bill, to a certain degree anyway, will encourage divorce. As such it does not receive my support. If I am wrong in making this statement and this Bill does not encourage divorce, can some of the following speakers tell me just why the people who want easy divorce support this Bill? That is the very basis of it. 
I refer to another issue that may not be connected with the Bill but which has arisen as a result of this Bill being introduced, namely, the organised system of correspondence that has been delivered to this Parliament. I object strongly to it, because like most members of the Parliament I have received a great deal of mail delivered by hand to this place unstamped, in the form of roneod types of letters, some of which were very similar. Some were identical, and in some cases I have had duplicated letters signed by the same person addressed to me. Apparently the people who are organising this have become so over-organised that they have sent me 2 letters instead of one. I think that it is time that you,  Mr Speaker,  had a very close look at this situation because my constituents cannot write to me in bulk and get free postage and free delivery. Evidently people who reside in the Australian Capital Territory have been able to organise themselves so that they can deliver literally thousands of letters unstamped trying to force members into believing that they are representing the majority. 
Not only is what I have said today my own thinking; I am also very interested to note that since this question became an issue, with the exception of one deputation I had within my electorate, I have not received one letter supporting this Bill. With that in mind I will certainly support the amendment this afternoon if a vote is taken. I will certainly be supporting some areas of amendment at the Committee stage. I give notice right now if that at the conclusion of the Committee stage of this Bill it is still not to my satisfaction, I will be opposing it at the third reading stage. 
I commence my remarks by reminding the House that over recent months there has been a great deal of discussion on the seriousness of the position of Australia's primary industries. I refer particularly to the meat industry and to the way on which prices have deteriorated to a non-paying level. Each time this matter has been raised, both in this chamber and outside, we invariably receive a reply from someone on the Government side to the effect that the problem has been brought about by the international situation and lack of purchases from other countries. I suppose that there is little argument against that claim because, as Australia is chiefly an agricultural country dependent in many instances on overseas markets, is it any wonder that if the overseas markets deteriorate this has some effect on Australia? 1 believe that a number of questions should be asked of the Government. What has the Government done about this problem? Has it made sufficient representations to the various countries concerned? Statements have been issued by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to the effect that they have had negotiations and so on, but they come back with the same answer. I want to know whether the Government has looked at every available avenue of assistance? We have heard the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in this chamber, say that the Government has done everything possible that the Australian National Cattlemen's Council has asked for, but on close examination and cross questioning we have found that what the Minister told the House was somewhat misleading in that he said that the primary producers had not used all the funds made available on loan to this industry. Of course, when he made that statement he was not prepared to tell us what rate of interest these people would have to pay for the money. He did not tell us that it was something like 1 1½ per cent. Anyone who understands the beef industry will appreciate that on today's prices no grazier could borrow money at 11½ per cent, particularly when his actual returns from the disposal of his cattle are at an all-time record low. I do not wish to bore the House with a lot of quotations, but if one looks at the list of prices issued by the Department of Agriculture in November 1973, one sees that certain types of bullocks were bringing in the vicinity of 99c a kilogram. Today they are bringing below 30c. Is it any wonder that these people cannot afford to pay 11½ per cent for money that the Government is supposedly making available to them? 
I also ask the Government whether it has had a close look at the competition that is being experienced by our exporters. In a document issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on 13 March 1975 it was alarming to see the levels of this import competition. Table 1 sets out imports by sections and divisions of the Australian import commodity classification. I was interested to see that for the 8-month period ending in February of this year Australia imported $3.4m worth of meat, yet we cannot sell our own meat. If one looks down the list, there are some amazing figures related to commodities imported. For instance, $9.5m worth of dairy products imported in the same period. 
These imports come from various countries. Another section relates to fruit and vegetables. In this country we pride ourselves on being agriculturally minded, and yet in this 8-month period we imported something like $58m worth of fruit and vegetables. Just think of it- $58m worth in 8 months! Just what is the Government up to when it allows that sort of thing? The figure for the same 8-month period in the previous year was in the vicinity of $2 8m. One could go through and quote a lot of things. For instance, certain types of textiles- and heaven only knows most people in this country today realise the situation in the textile industry. Look at the thousands of people who have been retrenched. Yet when one compares the figures of imports today with those of last year, is it any wonder? I quote item 84: Clothing, accessories, articles of knitted or crocheted fabric. These imports totalled $147m worth compared with $7-2m worth the previous year. Is it any wonder that there is a disturbance within these various industries? 
I hope that the Government will have a very close look at some of the issues that I have raised because, after all, on the one hand we cannot export meat and yet, on the other hand, we are importing large quantities. Requests have been made to some fruit industries to reduce their production and to pull out trees. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  would be well aware of this. Yet we imported something like $58m worth of fruit and vegetables in 8 months. Add one-half to that and you arrive at the figure for a 12-month period. I am informed that tomorrow the world meat exporters are meeting in Brussels. Had the House been sitting last week no doubt I would have been speaking in ample time for some of my views to be put forward to that particular conference. I am informed that at that conference discussion will be held by meat exporting countries to see whether there could not be some avenue through which the European Economic Community could increase beef imports from Australia. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  Australia has not exported beef to the EEC countries for some 8 months. It is about time we broke back into that market. Failing this, I issue the warning that the meat industry in Australia has reached such a state today that large numbers of graziers will reduce their stock numbers to what I think could be a dangerously low level, so that in the not too distant future we could find ourselves in a position of not having much meat to export. When the world situation levels out, in accordance with the statements by Ministers of the Australian Government and their supporters, then we could find ourselves in a position where there could well be a world shortage of beef. If anyone complains today that the price of beef or the price of meat is too high then I can assure him that it could be higher unless we do something about the position pretty urgently. 
I was stressing that one of the reasons the Labor Government wants to introduce this optional preferential voting system is simply that the Labor Party now has realised that it no longer will be the beneficiary of preference votes. I explained that the Country Party, the Liberal Party and the Democratic Labor Party certainly will never give their preferences to a political party which supports the principle of socialism. Now we find that other organisations like the Australia Party are starting to run away from the Labor Party's cause. It is pretty obvious to me and to honourable members on this side of the chamber why the Labor Party wants to introduce this clause. I, like every other honourable member on this side of the chamber, will oppose the clause. 
-It was not my intention to speak in this debate. I do so as a result of a number of statements which have been made by members of the Government. As the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is in charge of this wandered in his comments I believe,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that perhaps you will extend to me the courtesy to do the same. The first point I raise relates to a statement which was continually repeated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a few minutes ago when he kept telling us that Australia had no Parliament for 3 months. I am not too sure what he means by this because that is a long way from the truth. 
I suppose it could be standard practice for the Prime Minister to tend to exaggerate. I do not know. But it confuses me when I know that certain factual things take place and the Prime Minister says completely the opposite. I remind the Committee that last year we had an election on 18 May. I have before me a paper dated 9 July 1974 relating to the opening of the Twenty-ninth Parliament. Surely to goodness that is not 3 months later. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-I  uphold the point of order raised by the honourable member for Bonython in the sense that during the debate in the Committee stage no reference should be made to what was said during the debate on the second reading. On the other hand, I think that sometimes it is allowable for an honourable member to use, as an illustration of a point he is making in relation to the clause before the Committee, something which has been said previously. I suggest to the honourable member for Wimmera and to other honourable members that too much attention should not be given to speeches made during the second reading debate. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I respect your ruling on this count. However, I have dealt with what I really wanted to say. After all, we on this side did not have an opportunity to speak during the second reading debate. If you recall the Government Whip applied the gag before one member of the Australian Country Party had spoken. 
That is not quite right either. If my memory serves me correctly I was one member who spoke on this very Bill. 
As the honourable member for the Northern Territory has reminded me, the Minister should get his facts right. That is one of the reasons why I wanted to say a few words on this clause and, at the same time, to raise the matter of the untruths put forward by the Prime Minister.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you have ruled that I have to stick to clause 4. The Minister for Services and Property raised a matter which I believe relates to clause 21. He started talking about the distribution of how-to-vote cards on polling day.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I am not sure whether you will allow me to speak on this subject at this stage. After all, the Minister did. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-I  suggest to honourable members on both sides that if the  Chairman,  whoever he might be, wished to enforce Standing Orders correctly perhaps 90 per cent of the speeches should not be made. Whether nor not that would be an advantage is another point. But a certain amount of leniency is always given by the Chair in Committee discussions particularly in relation to a Bill such as this one where the subject matter of one clause flows into another. I hope that in the discussions honourable members will keep as far as possible and practicable to the particular clause under discussion and if they happen to refer to other clauses I hope they will not want to make the same speech later when those other clauses come before the Committee. 
Thank you for your ruling,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I will accede to it and reserve my comments on the distribution of how-to-vote cards until such time as the Committee deals with clause 21. I felt that I should make that comment. I am quite happy to accept the remarks made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  in relation to clause 4. 1 support them and urge that the Minister consider accepting these amendments. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be omitted  (Mr Garland's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
I rise to make a very brief comment on clause 21. Proposed new section 58d  (  1) (a) states: ... in the case of an election of a Member of the House of Representatives for a Division in a State to be held at a general election of Members of that House- the number of candidates endorsed by the party in respect of elections for the Divisions in the State (including the first-mentioned election) is not less than one-quarter of the whole number of Divisions in that State; 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  a few minutes ago quoted the virtual quotas of candidates that each party would have to have to be recognised as an official party to have its name, in accordance with this Bill, printed on ballot papers. The quotas he mentioned were New South Wales 12, Victoria 9, Queensland 5, South Australia 3, Western Australia 3 and Tasmania 2. This is virtually forcing groups of people to nominate for House of Representatives seats. This is completely contrary to the argument that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and Government supporters have been putting in support of provisions trying to cut down the numbers of candidates for the Senate. In the same Bill, under this provision it will be encouraging people to nominate for the House of Representatives. 
I will be quite frank. I belong to a party which does not contest all seats throughout Australia. I make no apologies for saying that. I only hope that we can work more closely with our colleagues of the Opposition to make sure that in the future we do not have too many joint contests with one another. However, that is by the way. The important thing is that at present in Victoria my party holds 6 seats. If by chance the redistribution that has been put forward were to be adopted- I am not canvassing that matter now- we would find that we would have possibly a reduction in the seats that we hold, which in turn would mean that we would have to contest a lot of seats that are held by our colleagues in the Liberal Party. That may not be in the best interests. So the next move would be for the Australian Country Party to contest seats held by the Australian Labor Party. As the Labor Party does not hold any country seats in Victoria this would mean that the Country Party, to accede to the wishes of the Government in this Bill, would be contesting seats in the metropolitan area. That may be right; it may be wrong. It may be popular; it may be unpopular. I say that this Bill is contradictory. On the one hand the Government says: 'Let us encourage people not to stand for the Senate', but when it comes to the House of Representatives it says: 'Let us encourage them to stand'. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Clause 21 agreed to. 
Clauses 22 and 23- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 24. 
Section 73 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c) the words 'Two hundred dollars' and substituting the figures '$l,000'; 
-When one studies this clause I think one can say with a lot of confidence that it is the most undemocratic clause in the Bill. In fact, it actually disfranchises at the first count all supporters of a candidate other than the 2 leading candidates, and this was pointed out by the 2 previous speakers. That is one of the reasons why I believe that this is a most undemocratic system. I challenge the Minister on this point. In his own Caucus, for instance, there is a form of exhaustive ballot to elect the various leaders of the Party. It is the closest thing to a preferential vote that I can think of. The other reason the Labor Party does want it is simple- the Labor Party has exhausted its support from other groups of people. It will never get Liberal Party preferences, it never gets Country Party preferences, it never gets Democratic Labor Party preferences and now even the Australia Party has given it away. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I commend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles ) for his contribution in the debate on the Loan (War Service Land Settlement)  Bill today. I am sure that honourable members on this side of the House appreciate the contribution that he has made to debates on similar Bills over a number of years. I feel quite sure that had more time been allotted to him today he would have made more suggestions as to where we are going in relation to this measure. No doubt, it could be said that this is somewhat minor legislation. Nevertheless, it is very important to the 3 States concerned, namely, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. More particularly, it is important to the soldier settlers in those States. The Bill seeks to make available from the Commonwealth an amount of up to $4m. On a State basis, the money is to be divided as follows: $2m for South Australia, $1.2m for Western Australia and $800,000 for Tasmania. The purpose of the loan is to provide funds for short terms to settlers for working capital, stock and replacement plant and equipment and the normal running operational expenses for these various properties. 
This Bill is virtually the same as that which was introduced in 1972 by the previous Government. So there is no suggestion that the Opposition will not oppose it. Indeed all Opposition members welcome it. The interesting point about the legislation that I can see is the changed philosophy of the Government in relation to it. As the honourable member for Angas pointed out, when the previous legislation was introduced the then shadow Minister for Agriculture, or the shadow Minister for Primary Industry as the portfolio was then known, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  moved an amendment. I think that it is well for us to note the words of this amendment. He said: 
I now move the following amendment, which is in the same terms as the one I moved last year: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: ' whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Select Committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme with particular reference to the level of rentals demanded from settlers, the method of valuations and the option of purchase price of properties. ' 
If the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  cannot understand what I am talking about, it would be of little use my handing him a copy of the amendment. It sounds as though he could not read it anyway. 
I ask what has happened to the thinking of the present Government in relation to the appointment of a select committee. Why did it not proceed with that proposal? If honourable members study the history of such legislation they will find that the moving of that amendment was no accident.  Dr Patterson,  the then spokesman on primary industry matters for the then Opposition, mentioned that this was the second occasion upon which such an amendment had been moved. However, I want to refer to a follow-up speech by the honourable member for Bass,  Mr Barnard.  He commenced his remarks by saying: 
For the third consecutive year the Opposition has moved a motion calling for a Select Committee - 
It is rather a strange set of circumstances that members, when in Opposition, should oppose certain legislation but when in government they run away from what they originally virtually said they would do. I ask: Why has the Government changed its views on this? Why will it not tell us? 
What do we find when we look at the list of speakers in this debate this afternoon? We find that there are 3 speakers from the Opposition but no speakers from the Government side. We do not hear answers to the questions that we ask. I am not sure whether the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who sits at the table at the present time, is in a position to answer all the questions that have been put to him. I very much doubt it. However, I do not want to take anything away from him and I hope that he will be able to answer some of these questions. If he does not know the answers at this stage I suggest that he should make some inquiries before the debate on this Bill is completed. 
It must also be remembered when noting the comments of  Dr Patterson  on that earlier occasion that he used the words 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill'. If honourable members refer to pages 1604 and 1605 of the Hansard record dated 19 September 1972 they will find that the then Opposition opposed the motion that the Bill be read a third time. I wonder why. No explanation is given. This is one of the challenges I offer to the Minister at the table. Why did the then Opposition oppose it? This is something that becomes very confusing to people who are very interested in this type of legislation. I refer to the war service settlers as a whole. Of course, it is very obvious why money is needed under this Bill. I am somewhat surprised to see that the Government has confined the amount sought to the same amount, namely, $4m, that was provided in the previous legislation. It is true that in actual fact the previous legislation covered the period from September 1972 until today. I wonder how long the $4m we are considering today will last? Will it last for another 3 years or will it run out even before the end of this year? One never knows. 
Again I say it is pretty obvious that the sympathy of Government supporters on this account is certainly not with the soldier settler. Perhaps the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who is at the table will be able to indicate how long the Government forecasts this $4m will last? Today settlers, depending on the type of industry they are in, to say the least are having a very rough time. The bulk of these people are associated with basic primary industries. The honourable member for Angas referred to those who depend on the fruit industry but the bulk of them depend on such industries as dairying, wool, wheat and meat. It is natural that the return from some of these industries- I refer mainly to wheat and, to a lesser degree, dairying -are reasonable. But the important point to remember is that those who are in receipt of incomes from other industries have far from reasonable returns. The deductions which have to be taken from their returns are caused by this Government's decisions, thereby increasing their costs, and at the end of the financial year there is very little, if any, profit left. These are the reasons why we on this side of the House are somewhat concerned with this Bill. It is not new that members on this side of the House should differ from honourable members on the Government side. We only have to pick up this morning's newspaper to see an article contributed by  Mr R.  N. Bonnett, the Liberal Party member for Herbert. He is not speaking about this Bill but about a somewhat similar situation. The article is headed: 
No Aid for the Anzacs. 
This is a clear indication that while the Government can find plenty of money for other things, when it comes to a soldier settler or even an old Anzac no money is available. As I said a minute ago this is one reason why we on this side of the House are very perturbed about the matter. We have no intention whatsoever of opposing the Bill but it does not answer the real problems as far as the industries and their low returns are concerned. I recall that some time ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  indicated in this place that the Government was only too willing to assist those industries which were in need. The honourable member for Angas referred just briefly- I know he did not have time to go into any detail- to the superphosphate bounty. I cannot think of any other commodity through which soldier settlers could be helped more. The Government should have renewed or even increased the original superphosphate bounty. If it is not prepared to do that, obviously it is not prepared to help this group of people at all. The honourable member for Angas referred to the fact that when the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  moved for the introduction of a private member's Bill asking for an extension of the superphosphate bounty not one honourable member on the Government side supported that legislation. 
Of course it is shameful. Then we think of the crocodile tears shed in this place by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  From time to time he referred to the fact that he would put forward propositions and submissions to assist primary industries. He said that there would be some sort of limited assistance as far as the superphosphate subsidy is concerned. What has happened to it? 
I do not know where he was when the vote was taken. I did not have an opportunity to look at the result of the division but I noticed that no one crossed the floor, so he either absented himself or voted against it. My thinking is that he voted against it. Therefore, as I said, he must have shed crocodile tears when he talked about giving assistance to these people. The Government is quite happy to throw the onus back to an inquiry into this commodity, namely, the Industries Assistance Commission. This is only putting off the evil day in the hope that when the inquiry comes down with its findings the users of superphosphate will have forgotten all about it. They certainly will not have forgotten. Let us look at the cost of superphosphate not only to soldier settlers but also to all primary producers throughout Australia. At the end of the previous Government's regime it was being sold in the vicinity of $ 14 to $ 1 5 a tonne. 
Today, as my colleague from Hume says, it is about $53. That will give honourable members an indication of how the present regime has been able to affect primary producers. There are plenty of do-gooders on the Government side. I recall that before the last election the then honourable member for Riverina- we all know what happened to himmade great claims that if the Labor Party were returned to office the primary producers and soldier settlers would have available in the vicinity of $500m at 3 per cent interest. What are they paying today? This is an interesting point. Some people are privileged to be able to get money at low rates of interest. Other are not so privileged. Then, of course, there are those who are most unfortunate because they are not recognised by this Government as people who need assistance. There are many cases where individuals pay up to 13 per cent for money from stock firms so that they can carry on. 
As I said at the outset the Opposition has no intention of opposing this Bill but there are some questions to which we would like answers. It is pretty obvious that we are not going to get them. However, I plead with the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation who are at the table to accede to the request of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for Angas and myself to answer some of the queries which we have put forward because it is not only we who want to know these answers but also the settlers outside. They depend very much on these answers. 
Can the Minister for Social Security give an assurance that those people who have been convinced by him that they do not need to be covered by a hospital benefit fund will receive a bed in a public ward of a hospital when they need it? Should such people ignore the Minister, accept the suggestion put forward by the Opposition and join a benefits fund, thereby guaranteeing accommodation when such an emergency arises? 
I hope my time commences from now. I am almost grateful to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for the answer he gave yesterday to a question by the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  in relation to insurance. I want to say at the outset that I am not discussing the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill which is before the Parliament. Rather, I am discussing a matter that was raised yesterday by the Minister. I would like to say also that I am most grateful- not quite to the same extent as I am grateful to the Minister in whose case I am almost grateful- to the Melbourne 'Age' for first covering this issue of a so-called secret deal that took place between officials of the Australian Mutual Provident Society and members of the National Country Party of Australia over the proposals of the Government on this allimportant subject. The Melbourne 'Age' made the first reference to this matter on 14 May. I do not have the time to read the whole article which appeared on page 3 of the 'Age'. Under the heading 'Help us beat bill, insurers ask CP', the article in part states: 

 Senator Wheeldon said yesterday the documents revealed that there was 'a secret alliance between the AMP Society and the Country Party and that secret meetings had taken place'. 
He said: 'I believe it is outrageous that the funds of the policyholders in the AMP should be used for the purpose of assisting the Country Party without any consultation with the policyholders, or any hint of the company's private political intentions'. 
A further article again at page 3 appeared in this morning's edition of the 'Age'. The article, in part, stated: 
A spokesman for the AMP said documents covering correspondence between the society and the Country Party were 'not secret'. 
The spokesman said: 'We have been very careful to be thoroughly partisan on the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation.' 'We are not playing politics, 
-The Minister laughs. The article continued: 'Our officers have had talks with the Liberal and Labor Party members as well as the Country Party. ' 
Surely that proves the point. As one of the members who organised this so-called secret deal, I want to make a brief comment. I want to make it quite clear to the Australian people what actually did take place so as to prove beyond all doubt how incorrect these ministerial statements have been. In fact, they are downright untrue and were made possibly to deceive people into believing that both the National Country Party and the AMP were carrying out behind the scenes discussions against the interests or views of policy holders. There were no secret divisions and no secret discussions as has been pointed out by a member of the AMP Society. 
That is quite correct. No doubt there are plenty of honourable members on the 
Government side who are prepared to indulge in such activity. 
Some two or three weeks ago I had a telephone call from an officer of the AMP Society, who incidentally was a resident of my electorate and known to me for many years. He said that he would like to speak to me and other members of the Parliament. To make his job a little easier I suggested to him that instead of meeting individuals, which would take time, he should meet these people collectively. I suggested that we should get a few fellows together. This is what we did. I offered to organise this because I believed that this was a very important matter. It was not just a case of members of the National Country Party only speaking to officers of the various societies; members of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party also spoke to them. Why the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  should select the National Country Party and say that it engaged in a secret deal of handing over money I would not know. 
A number of people raised the question of the Australian Government Insurance Office when I returned to my electorate during the fortnight's recess. These people included many insurance agents who certainly were not all members of the AMP. I agreed to talk to them at very short notice. During the discussions no mention was ever made of any financial of physical assistance that would be given during a campaign. People from the various companies came along to the meeting with a view to informing me of their views and their announced policies and platforms in regard to the Bill that was presented on 23 March. But the question was certainly stirred by various members of the Australian Labor Party. I will make a brief comment on the question of money before I resume my seat. As I said, the question of money was not mentioned, except that the officers said that under no circumstances do they contribute to or take part in campaigning as a company. This I accept. They have made this point very clear not only on this occasion but also on other occasions to anybody who may have been interested. 
I believe that as a result of decisions made by the Australian Labor Party or the Government many people in the insurance field are now very conscious of what the Government is trying to do to the insurance industry. The Government is trying to socialise the industry or to nationalise it by a back door entry. It would not surprise me to see many hundreds, if not thousands, of insurance agents, as well as many of the 3 million policy holders in Australia, making every effort to see that this Government is removed from office, as distinct from the official platform of any insurance company laying down a policy of playing party politics. I want to make this point very clear. I have checked with senior officers of my Party, and at no stage has any life insurance office made any moneys available to the former Australian Country Party or to the now National Country Party of Australia. This matter has been raised by  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation in another place, and by the Minister for Services and Property, who have made the suggestion that we are making secret and sinister deals with the companies. It is my opinion that the matter has been raised by these 2 Ministers with a sinister view in mind. They know that their suggestion is false, but they are trying to confuse people into believing that in fact the Government is introducing measures which are not nationalistic. 
This morning the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  criticised the fact that policyholders' money was being used to carry out political propaganda. Is there really much difference between policyholders' money and money collected from the taxpayers and used to propagate propaganda by the Government or contributions made to the trade union movement by members who do not believe in the Australian Labor Party? Surely there is no difference at all. However, on the one hand the insurance companies refrain from making the contributions; but, on the other hand, the money of both the trade union movement and the taxpayers is used to propagate Government policy. This is why I raise this matter. I am grateful to the Melbourne 'Age ' for also raising the matter, because I believe that perhaps that newspaper has unearthed something which today the Labor Government is trying to instil in the minds of the people, namely, that all is well and that there is no fear of the nationalisation of the insurance industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to speak in this debate as a result of a statement made recently by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in which he warned the wool growers of Australia that in no circumstances must they allow the price of wool to go too high as to do so would be dangerous. I think many wool growers would agree with that statement, provided the price of wool was set down. The true value of wool is always a contentious subject, but on this occasion the Minister did not tell us exactly what he thought the price should be. He only warned us that the price should not be too high. We can agree with him on that. The point is: What is a reasonable price? That is the burning question. It is also rather interesting to note from Press reports that the Minister is to place before Cabinet a submission that we should continue to have as a reserve price 250c per kilo for 21 micron wool, clean. It is rather interesting to note that even though the price appears to be reasonable, it is completely uneconomical so far as wool growers are concerned because even today we are informed that the latest price for wool is running in the vicinity of 270c per kilo, not 250c per kilo. I am not an expert on the wool industry but I can assure the House that 250c per kilo is not a payable proposition. Indeed, those wool growers who believe that they have a reasonable income are biting into their capital. 
I am indebted to the Wimmera shire municipality which has supplied me with the results of a survey it carried out recently. I do not have sufficient time in this debate to give the House the full details, but because of the difference in opinion as to how much profit there is to be made in primary industry today the Wimmera shire carried out a survey for the years 1972-73 and 1974-75. In a nutshell, that survey proved that the average farmer in that shire, leaving aside his investment, finished up with a profit of $6,839 for the year 1972-73 and last year that profit was reduced to $3,346. The average value of these properties would be in the vicinity of $100,000 plus. If one were to take into account the interest on that sort of money it is obvious that these people are not getting anywhere near 1 1  Vi  per cent on their investment. Probably they would receive 1 per cent or 2 per cent and they would be working for nothing. 
As to the price of wool, it is interesting to note that the survey covering 1972-73 showed that the average price per kilo was $2.64 whereas last year the figure was down to $1. 1 give the House these figures because I believe there are many people who are under the misapprehension that 250c per kilo today is a reasonable price. I am sure that many wool growers would agree with me that the price is not high enough. 
-Before the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  endeavours to answer the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  I would like to ask him in his reply to explain to me, to other honourable members and no doubt to people outside this House, just why this clause must be included. 
-I am glad to know that the honourable member for Macquarie agrees with me. A lot of people are suggesting that this whole Bill is not in the best interests of the family. Why are we including in this Bill clause 6, which has been read out, relating to polygamous marriage? The explanatory notes say virtually nothing. They do not explain why it should be there. I would like to see it removed entirely. If I cannot have it removed entirely I will certainly support the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  but I would like a further explanation from the Minister. 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has given an address full of errors and exaggerations. I do not know whether he made any study of this matter before he made his comments today but it would appear to me that he did not. He said for a start that the electorate of Wimmera had been reduced to 45 000 electors. He should have read the statement issued by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  because that puts the figure at 49 000 electors. He said that neither the Liberal Party nor the National Country Party had put in a submission to the Distribution Commissioners. What does he think is contained in the little blue booklet put out by the Commissioners. It clearly indicates exactly what the 
Liberal and Country Parties submitted. I agree with the honourable member for Burke in one respect. If the Government's policy is allowed to drift as it has done in the last 2 years I would not be at all surprised in the not-too-distant future to see the absence of all country seats because judging by the number of farmers who have been driven off their properties there would be no one left to vote and as a result we would not have any electorates in country areas. 
After listening to the comments made by the Minister in regard to the proposals for the various States I have come to the conclusion that he is a very worried man. He shows by his comments that he is somewhat jealous of the harmony that exists between honourable members on this side of the Parliament. He just does not like the way we can trust one another. This cannot happen within his own Party. He tries to cover up by putting over funny stories and to ridicule us in the hope that people outside will forget his own Party's problems. The Minister forgets tomorrow what he says today. The Minister cannot remember today what he said yesterday. I have vivid recollections of reading a statement in which the Minister referred to the fact that once members of the National Country Party heard of the new redistribution proposals they would all have heart attacks. I wonder what the Minister knew that we did not know? This is an example of the little things that he forgets. 
I do not have time to reply to all the comments that have been made today by some supporters of the Government other than to say it is pretty obvious that they have little or no interest in the future of this great country. If this redistribution is allowed to pass in its present unsatisfactory form, it will make the seat of Mallee the largest geographically in Victoria. In comparison I am informed that some metropolitan electorates are only .04 of the size of the proposed Mallee electorate. Just imagine- about 250 small city electorates would fit into one great broad electorate of Mallee which will comprise some 60 000 big hearted people. This electorate would be the State's largest in area; and yet now it is almost one of the largest numerically. We all hear supporters of the Government talk about the principle of 'one vote one value'. But where is the evenness in this case? Yet, the Government would force through this undemocratic proposal. It would, in effect, disenfranchise many of these country people who, in my thinking, the thinking of my Party and the thinking of all previous governments- Liberal-Country Party and Labor- deserve the same representation as people in suburban electorates. 
How often can a constituent speak to his member who is just as distant when in his electorate as he is when he is sitting here in Canberra? Is this the spurious kind of representation this Government offers to city people? I wonder why this is so? This Labor Government has a special and quite peculiar responsibilty in this regard. It has actively brought about policies of centralism. It has concentrated into this national capital of Canberra more and more of the affairs which govern people's daily lives. Today, country people expect frequent contact with their elected members. They will expect more contact with them as Labor develops its concept of centralism. 
Some of the people of Wimmera, which, under this proposal, becomes Mallee, would lose contact in a redistribution of the nature proposed. They would have no central point. The main cities would be Mildura, Swan Hill and Horsham, all of them widely separated and extremities of the electorate. The redistribution proposal is, quite obviously, completely unnatural. And this brings me to a most important point. Wimmera has been an electorate since Federation, a mere 74 years ago. But well before then, it was a recognised region because of its climate and topography. It is a natural region in every sense of the word and this is obvious from the activities of the people in the Wimmera. Their lives, from farming to commerce to sport, are woven together into a regional fabric because the natural components of the region blend automatically. But Labor wants to destroy this natural fabric of human interest and activity, and replace it with an isolation that belongs to the horse and buggy days. People will be isolated from their members. They will have limited, and in some cases, no access to the people who make decisions that bind their lives. This is a direct and deliberate denial of democracy. It is also a classic example of the hypocrisy and double dealing for which this Government is building quite a reputation. The people will have their democratic rights, but they will be unable to exercise them. That is the beginning of the destruction of democracy. 
Some honourable members on the Government side will sneer that I am merely trying to keep my seat. That would be the level of their idealism and intelligence. To them I say that I would be quite disappointed to lose my seat. Naturally I would. Any normal person would be saddened to lose something for which he has worked hard for some 20 years. I hope honourable members on the Government side will note this: If the loss of Wimmera would strengthen Australian democracy and benefit the people, I would certainly step aside. I would expect others to do the same. The greatest gift that all Australian Labor Party members could give this nation would be to give up their seats, but I do not see them rushing in to make what would be their sole valuable contribution to the welfare of the Australian people. When I see a move to destroy democracy in this country I have not only a duty to speak up but also a heavy obligation to my people to do something about it. 
I also reject this motion for the redistribution of the electoral divisions of Victoria in the interests of city people. Labor's deliberate neglect of rural electorates, particularly by abolishing them, must lead to a disaster for people living in the cities. Unless primary production is made profitable and kept viable no one will continue farming, whether he wants to or not. Farmers will swell the ranks of the unemployed. They will compete with city dwellers for jobs. Food prices naturally will be affected. They will soar as this country has never known before. No one farms so well as the owner-operator. The Russians have acknowledged this by returning portion of their farming land to private owners. These private owners are a small percentage of Russia's farmers, but they produce most of Russia's food. Neither socialism nor huge corporations are capable of efficient farming and cheap food production because the true farmer is a man moved by the love of his land. He is prepared to nurture that land for a lifetime and to make sacrifices for it in a way that is foreign to the minds of those who spend their lives on bitumen and who produce by pushing buttons. Farmers have a fundamental wisdom in their chosen vocation. I implore members of the Government who do not understand this to try to comprehend this fact before they blunder into errors which will cost this country dear for generations to come. 
How serious is the Government about decentralisation when it robs the rural areas of meaningful representation? Obviously the Government intends to continue the already heavy expenditure in areas where the most votes reside, particularly in industralised suburbs. I ask honourable members not to forget that while country people are neglected they will still continue, through sales tax if not through their profits when they disappear, to contribute to the cash which this Government recklessly rushes to place into the suburbs of the metropolitan areas. Some of the intellectuals who misguide Labor's hand will see some merit in bringing more people to the cities. The same academics recommended high rise flats for city living. Now the cost of social services to the State for these people living on the brink of suicide, and for those in these flats who go over that brink, is much more than proper housing in country areas would cost. A good decentralisation plan would cost far less because once established it would generate its own revenue. High rise living generates only misery and continuing expense. 
Simple arithmetic shows that this redistribution proposal means that Labor will continue in office with less than 50 per cent of the vote. This would be government by minority, which is the opposite of democracy. Unions would feel freer than ever to place bans on exports, such as they have done on wheat sales to Chile at a time when world wheat prices have dropped by one-third. Australian Wheat Board members are at their wits' end trying to find buyers with enough cash to pay for 900 000 tonnes of unsold wheat before the next harvest. 
The honourable member for Mallee has pointed out that that one deal alone cost the industry $14m. Yet we have the honourable members on the Government benches who are prepared to accept and condone this sort of thing. Genuine democracy- not just some academic juggling of figures- demands more rather than less rural representation. This proposal in its present form is a threat to Australian democracy. I am reminded of the comments by the former member for Mallee that there is only one way really to carry out true decentralisation and that is by commencing with decentralised representation in our various Parliaments. That is the very opposite to what this Labor Government is trying to introduce. 
Honourable members who have studied the submissions placed before the New South Wales Distribution Commission cannot but be impressed by the fact that some 10 000 people saw fit to object to the alteration to the Riverina electorate. So 10 000 people were prepared to put their names to a petition protesting against the proposals as they have been presented. This was done in a very short time. There could be 2 reasons for this. Firstly, it could be because the electors respect their present member. There is no disputing that. Secondly, of course, it could be because they realise that they may lose another of their number. Surely this indicates the feeling of country people to these loaded redistribution proposals. These have been caused not by the deliberate action of the Distribution Commissioners but, basically, by an alteration to the Electoral Act which was carried in this chamber not very long ago. That Bill dealt with variations in the population and numbers on the roll. 
Finally, I appeal to members of the Government to have a real regard for the fine national contribution made by country people and to drop the 'milk comes out of bottles' attitude. After all, this is the simple way in which many people look on country representation. I reject these proposals entirely. As I think the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  mentioned a little while ago when he was referring to the future of this great nation, if we allow this redistribution to go through the Parliament and to be implemented we will never get an opportunity on some future occasion to get the true feeling and voice of the people. I refer to a comment by the Minister for Services and Property when he gave the reason why the Wimmera electorate should disappear. He stated: 
It was all so logical that the rural Division to be abolished should be Wimmera, since this Division contains fewer electors than any other existing Division. 
If the philosophy and the reason why the Wimmera electorate should disappear is because it is the smallest numerically, I ask: What will be the next move? Will this automatically mean that the electorate of Mallee should be the second electorate to disappear because it is the second smallest numerically? I reject these proposals. I am sure there are plenty of people outside the Parliament who agree with me on this matter. I am sure that at the next election the people will recognise this fact. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question supplementary to that asked of the Minister for Northern Development by the honourable member for Farrer. I ask whether the Cabinet has made a recommendation to Caucus dealing with the 1975-76 wool reserve price. If so, when will an announcement be made? I also ask the Prime Minister whether he has received a number of telegrams in opposition to the reported proposal to lower the wool floor price from, firstly, the Victorian Farmers Union; secondly, the Trades and Labour Council - 
-I am sure that a lot of people throughout Australia would agree with the comment of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  that the Australian Government does not have the power or ability to control a lolly shop. During the last 5 days there has been a great deal of comment about the wool industry.  Mr Speaker,  I want to put you at ease right from the beginning. I am not going to speak about the wool Bills that are before the House at the present time. They deal with a special wool tax, and I have no intention of discussing that subject. Tonight I want to raise the question of costs and returns to the wool industry. It has been said that as a result of a decision by the Labor Caucus this week the wool industry had a victory. I do not know whether I would go all the way with that view. I think I could say that the industry has had a partial victory insofar as it has prevented the Government from reducing the floor price of wool below what it has been in recent times. I think I can sum the situation up by saying that the Government has moved the industry from a calamitous position to a disastrous position, or a doubtful position if you do not like the word 'disastrous'. It has pushed the problems of the industry into the 'too hard' basket. To my mind and to the minds of a lot of growers throughout Australia 250c a kilogram for clean 21 micron wool is not a payable proposition. People say that when the Opposition was in government it was guaranteeing 30c-odd per pound. 
I am reminded by the honourable member for Mallee that it was 36c. Of course what people do not realise is that a lot of things have happened since then. Firstly, inflation has taken over, and the money received now from the sale of a pound of wool will not buy as much as it would have in those times. The 250c to which everyone is referring is for a kilogram, not a pound of wool. That is the guaranteed price for clean wool, not greasy wool. For the benefit of those people who do not understand wool, 21 micron is not a fair average; 2 1 micron wool is well above average quality. 
Last weekend a number of graziers spoke to me about the possibility of a reduction in the floor price. I took particular notice of one very efficient grazier who made a very thorough check of his costing because he was approaching the end of the financial year. He had checked his figures with his accountant, so what he had to say was pretty factual. He indicated to me that he was running 18 000 sheep, selling 600 vealer cattle a year and cropping about 1500 acres of wheat, oats and barley. If his non-sheep activities were converted to sheep equivalent he would be running approximately 30 300 sheep. Running 1 8 000 sheep would return him $8 1 ,000 for wool or $4.50 per head. It must be remembered that the average price of wool is 250c a kilogram. Added to the $81,000 were the proceeds from the sales of surplus sheep at an equivalent of $2.50 a head over the lot, not over the sales. 
On the costs side he explained to me and convinced me that it was costing him $2 per sheep for superphosphate alone. We all know what has happened to the price of superphosphate since we have had a change of Government. Shearing costs per head were $1.20, and labour, rates, repairs, etc. $1.50 per head, bringing the total to $4.50. These figures balanced with the sale of his wool, but we must remember that there were 2 other items. The first was the sale of surplus stock at $2.50 a head, which I mentioned, but the important thing is the interest on the investment. No business man is prepared just to put money into an investment and not get some sort of return. According to the latest sheep survey carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for the year 1972-73 the unimproved value of land, excluding fences, buildings, water and all these sorts of things, on average throughout Australia works out at $20.26 per sheep. In the high rainfall area it was up to $30.47 per sheep. A further survey was carried out on improvements and this worked out to almost $9 per sheep. In my mind the capital value of stock would be about $6 to $8, bringing the total capital cost per sheep, according to the carrying capacity, to $47 in the high rainfall area, or $37 on the average. It would be below that again in the lower rainfall areas. A farmer must take into consideration interest on his money. It does not matter a hoot whether he is borrowing money or whether he has paid for the property. 
-It is exactly the same thing. The only difference is that if a person has to borrow money he might have to pay a higher rate of interest than he would on an investment. To be fair, let us take as a basis 10 per cent. In the high rainfall areas 10 per cent works out at $4.70 per sheep according to the carrying capacity per acre. If that is added to the other amounts I have just mentioned, it proves very easily that the total revenue received would be about $8.20 while total costs, including interest, would be $9.20. So there is a deficiency in that area. The amount of $2.50 will not make up the difference in the deficiency. In other words, the price of wool must be increased by about 10 per cent if one wants to come out square. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  said 12 months ago that $2.50 was a satisfactory price. What has happened since that time? Surely if they know the industry at all they will recognise from the figures I have just given that it is impossible to grow wool at $2.50. Yet we find people like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro rushing around, and getting on the radio program 'AM' and on television and saying: 'I have had a wonderful victory for the wool industry'. He has not had a victory for the wool industry. Anyone who believes that he has had a victory does not understand the situation. The same thing applies to wool growers who think that they are making a go of it today. They do not seem to realise that they are not making a go of it but rather they are biting into their capital. Instead of receiving a reasonable return for such capital ' they are finding that it is gradually being whittled away. 
A couple of weeks ago I raised the question of farm costs within a municipality in my electorate. Unfortunately on that occasion I did not have sufficient time to relate the details. It seemed to be a rather good article when the newspaper wrote it up. I am not criticising the newspaper because it was quoting factual figures. The article said that there was a profit of $3,346 per average farm within that municipality. Of course, it did not take interest into consideration. If one includes interest costs for the farm properties within that municipality, based on about $100,000 worth of capital- that is a very small farm in the Wimmera area, and it would probably be closer to $200,000- one has to add to the costs another $10,000, or $20,000 if it is a property worth over $200,000. That shows how much profit there is in the wool industry today and how much profit there is in primary industry today. This is one of the reasons members of the Liberal and National Country Parties are everlastingly trying to remind the Government of the problems facing the industry. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Last evening when I was speaking in the adjournment debate I referred to the problems of the wool industry and I indicated that as a result of Government decisions, the cost of producing one pound of wool exceeded the price that was actually being received. In my final words on that subject- I admit that I was rushing to finish my speech before my time expired- I concluded by saying: 
In other words, the price of wool must be increased by 50 per cent if one wants to come out square. 
That figure of 50 per cent should read 10 per cent. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Police and Customs. Is the Minister aware of the illegal export of Australian birds? Is he in a position to inform the House as to what action has been or is being taken to prevent such trading? If not, will he carry out a thorough investigation with a view to trying to eradicate it? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What mileage rates are paid for the use of privately owned motor vehicles used on Government business in respect of (a) 4, (b) 6 and (c) 8 cylinder vehicles. 
When were these rates last altered. 
I rise tonight to draw to the attention of the House what I believe is a very serious situation in which the Government has placed one of its commissions, the Industries Assistance Commission. I refer to the future of the Industries Assistance Commission.  Mr Speaker,  you will recall that this Commission was established some 2 years ago by the present Government. We were informed that this could be the answer to all our ills and to all our problems. I have vivid recollections of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on numerous occasions virtually refusing to answer questions in the House on the ground that the Government had placed the problem about which a question was being asked before the Industries Assistance Commission, and saying that he would not take any further action on the matter until the Commission had reported. One would have expected the Government to take immediate action when the LAC made a report, but this does not appear to have been done. It appears that the Government is prepared to ignore absolutely some of the submissions of the IAC. This is not the answer that we on this side of the House thought we would receive. I have vivid recollections of the time when the legislation to establish the Commission passed through the House, and how members of the then Country Party of Australia opposed it somewhat strongly on the ground that it would break down. However, we did not win the day and the Government had the numbers. So the legislation was passed through the Parliament and now we find a situation in which the Government is no doubt somewhat sorry that it did not listen to members of the National Country Party on that occasion because it is now ignoring these recommendations from the Commission. The newspaper  Stock and Land  of Thursday 21 August 1975 contains a few comments from various industry leaders who, more or less, have been thinking along the same lines that I have been speaking about. The article reads as follows: 

 Mr J. P. Heffernan, State  president  of the Victorian Farmers' Union, said the Budget 'made a mockery of the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations on aid to the rural sector'. 
It is strange for  Mr Heffernan  to say that because he is  chairman  of the Rural Advisory Committee to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  But these are the comments of only one individual.  Mr S.  W. G. Burston,  President  of the Graziers' Association of Victoria, made a statement and was reported in these terms: 'Relegation of rural industries to such a low position on the Budget list reflects the Federal Government's complete disregard for the importance of the national economy,' he said. 

 Mr Burston said 'it was a bitter blow to farmers that the Government had failed to act on the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission'. 
If other honourable members like to read other articles, they will find similar suggestions coming from industry leaders. I thought that possibly I could be biased on these matters, so I looked into the matter a little further and found that a very senior Cabinet Minister is now showing concern in regard to what has taken place.  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture had something to say, and in that newspaper article he was reported as follows: 
The most important item not included in the Budget was income equaliser. 'I think we could probably do more for the rural section with such a scheme than with any other single measure. 'But it was unfortunate that the report by the IAC on income equalisation came from the Government at such a difficult time, ' he said. 
Because of this the question had been deferred until next year. 
I ask: What is the advantage of having a Commission if even Cabinet Ministers are going to ignore its recommendations? I put this suggestion to the House tonight: If honourable members look at the  Age  newspaper of Tuesday, 26 August they will find a very good article by  Mr Phillip  McCarthy which is headed, ' "Super" sprouts trouble again'. If honourable members analyse this article they will find some rather interesting material. I have not got time to quote the whole article, but it refers to the fact that the Government looks at the report from the Industries Assistance Commission and then it decided to put it aside for a period. What this means no one knows. But we also know that the Government referred it to some of the departmental heads. It is rather interesting to see the reaction because some of those departments that will be examining the matter have a very clear-cut issue as to whether they will either support or reject the recommendations. I ask: Why have a dog and bark too? Has the Government got itself into a position in which it will choose to classify the Industries Assistance Commission as a sort of second rate commission and use it only when it suits it? That is what it appears to be doing at the present time. 
-I think that that probably would answer the question. It is being relegated to the too hard basket. The Prime Minister was somewhat upset when he received the report from the Commission on the restoration of the superphosphate bounty. The newspaper article in the  Restates: 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who clearly expected the IAC to vindicate his opposition to the bounty, recognised the extreme delicacy of the situation last week by agreeing in Cabinet to a deferment of the debate. 
I repeat the words 'to a deferment of the debate '. Because the condition laid down originally was that the Commission was to report on 1 July in ample time for a decision to be made and included in the Budget one would have thought the Government would have done something about the matter, but it did not. It has completely ignored the recommendation. When one sees that there are divisions within the Departments, one starts to wonder for what good purposes we are retaining the Commission. Either the Government has to accept the bulk of the recommendations it makes or disband it and go back to the original situation of the Tariff Board. I am not making any recommendations to the Government but I want somebody on the Government side to give a very clear indication of the position. I think that perhaps this question might be answered by the Prime Minister himself. After all, he was the one who was so proud. 
I want to refer to the big problem associated with one matter, and that is the reference that the IAC received in regard to superphosphate. As you are well aware,  Mr Speaker,  primary industries today are going through a very delicate period. I suppose that it would be the greatest crisis in which primary industry has ever found itself. I will not spell out all the problems with which primary industries are faced, but I think of the position in the meat industry, in the dairying industry and in the wool industry. No doubt, there are plenty of other primary industries which are facing problems similar to those being faced in those 3 industries. It is all very well for the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to say that he is easing taxation. These people are not interested in taxation. They will not be paying any taxation for a long time unless we do one of 2 things, to replace the Government and follow that up with good, sound policies to develop and assist the rural industries. There has been a lot of criticism by members of the Government in relation to aid to primary industries. I know we are not allowed to talk about the Budget. I do not intend to do so. But it is a pity that the Government does not give more consideration to this matter. Let us go back to the question of superphosphate. When this Government took office some 2V4 or nearly 3 years ago the price of superphosphate, bulk, in Victoria was $14.16 per tonne. On 1 January 1975 it was $54.78 per tonne. Today the price has risen to something like $58 per tonne. 
Ex works, yes, bulk. That is what the grower or the user has to pay. He certainly has a lot of costs after that. Again I appeal to the Government- to anyone from the Prime Minister down- to answer some of the questions which I have put forward in relation to the future of the Industries Assistance Commission. If it is worth having an organisation such as this Commission then I believe it is up to the Government to reconsider its recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) In what areas of Australia are European carp known to exist. 
Are there any areas in Victoria in which they are known not to exist. 
Are they on the increase in any particular area; if so, where. 
What effect do they have on the production of other types offish. 
Does the presence of European carp affect adversely the condition of water in our various water storages. 
Has New South Wales, Victoria or South Australia placed any submission before the Australian Government with a view to eradicating them. 
Has the CSIRO or any Department carried out any form of control research; if so, with what results. 
Are there any known measures to eradicate them in Australia 
Has any contact been made overseas with a view to seeking information as to the dangers of European carp to Australia; if so, with what results. 
-Last week in this chamber I raised a very important question in relation to the decision by the Government to ignore the recommendations of the Industries 
Assistance Commission on superphosphate. On that occasion I virtually challenged the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or any of his senior Ministers to say why they have ignored those recommendations. 
You will remember,  Mr Speaker,  that I made reference to the fact that, prior to the findings being presented by the LAC in relation to its inquiry on superphosphate, the Prime Minister refused to give any indication whether he would support the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. Since the report of the Commission on that inquiry was presented, a few activities have been going on. I understand that the Government handed the report to certain departments which were to study it. Those departments were divided in their opinions on that report. Where there is a division of opinion, the Government appears to be opposing the reintroduction of the bounty. 
The only occasions so far as I can see when anyone from the Government side has made any reference to this matter since I spoke in this chamber a week or so ago were, firstly, a question asked by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  of the Prime Ministerthe question was a very loaded one, which makes one wonder to what depths the Government will go to implement its policy; and secondly a contribution by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  who also tried to back up the opposition of the Government to the introduction of the proposals as presented by the Commissioners. 
First and foremost, I take a very grim view of the way in which it appears that Government members have organised themselves to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I refer to 2 questions that were asked, one in this House and one in another chamber, at almost identical times, both directed to the same point. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  answered in the other place and the Prime Minister answered in this place. This action makes one wonder just where we are going. The Government established the Industries Assistance Commission. It has repeatedly said that the matter of superphosphate has been handed over to the LAC for its recommendation. But when the recommendation is presented, if it does not suit the Government, the Government ignores it. What is the use of establishing a Commission if no notice is to be taken of its recommendations? 
Not only have its recommendations been ignored. We get statements from none otherthan the Prime Minister almost ridiculing the majority report of the IAC. Let me quote from the reply given to the honourable for Blaxland by the Prime Minister. He said that the Minister for Agriculture had given primary industry organisations for comment:  . . . the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, not only Commissioner Robinson's admirably cogent and rational report but also the rather less convincing ones of his 2 colleagues. 
The Prime Minister made this statement. It is hard to believe. I can appreciate why the honourable member for Fisher queries this aspect. Think of the situation: The Prime Minister sets up the Commission and appoints the 3 men to sit on that Commission. He says what a wonderful job Commissioner Robinson, who presented the minority report, did, and he ridicules the majority report of the other 2 members. I am moved to ask: Where are we going? 
I turn to the speech delivered by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I have not time to quote from it. He, too, has adopted the line of opposing the recommendations of the Commissioners supporting the reintroduction of the bounty. Therefore, in his mind, the primary producers of Eden-Monaro should not be entitled to receive any assistance by way of superphosphate bounty. Again I ask: How can we depend on this Government to give a reasonable decision on such matters? 
There is no need for me to spell out to you,  Mr Speaker,  or to this chamber the difficulties facing certain primary industries at this time. We all know, for instance, of the reports on the meat industry. I am rather perturbed to think that the Prime Minister has taken advantage of the claim by some individual members of the industry, calling themselves Cattle Producers of Australia, that they oppose the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty, to state virtually that members of the cattle industry are opposed to its reintroduction. It is not unreasonable to expect that some members of the cattle industry are opposed to the reintroduction of the bounty as not all cattle producers use superphosphate. They would no doubt be taking a very strong attitude because they believe that their competitors who do use superphosphate would get a trading advantage over them. 
I feel that I must raise this question once more tonight and again challenge the Government to make its position clear. I read a report in one of the newspapers to the effect that the Prime Minister or the Minister for Agriculture has again referred this matter to the various primary industry organisations for their views. If this Government had listened to any of the submissions put forward- such statements make one wonder whether it has- it would know surely that sufficient evidence has been submitted to prove that primary industry organisations support the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. 
In my speech last week, I cited the actual cost of superphosphate when this Government came into office. It was less than $20 a ton delivered at the farm. Today it is approximately $70 a ton. I can recall the Prime Minister saying when he referred this question to the IAC that primary industry was looking up and that there was no need for assistance to be provided to it. All the time, primary production costs are increasing. As I said, the cost of superphosphate has gone up more than 300 per cent. Now the Prime Minister is starting to run away from his statement. We on this side of the House fully appreciate that the Prime Minister is running away from it because he believes that he cannot get any support from the rural sector of Australia, so why should he worry about people in that area? 
Looking at the recommendations contained in the Henderson report on poverty which was tabled only last week, we find a recommendation made to the effect that certain primary producers when in financial difficulties should be entitled to some assistance. I wonder whether the Government will take heed of that report. No doubt it will ignore it as it is ignoring the report by the IAC. So I say to the Government that it is about time it woke up and really lived up to its responsibility to protect all sections of the community and not just those from where the biggest majority of votes for it come. 
I return to the question raised by the honourable member for Blaxland in this chamber and by a senator in another place in an attempt to ridicule the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not care how much money the Leader of the Opposition was to get under the superphosphate bounty. Are we to be governed in the future on the basis that because one person received more than someone else, the rest of the community must pay the penalty? I know the Leader of the Opposition as a very sincere man. He has been accused on numerous occasions of being the wealthiest man in this place. Well, so much more to his credit. If a man in his capacity has the finance that all members of the Government Party say he has, why should he be worrying about the few thousand dollars he might pick up from the superphosphate bounty? The Leader of the Opposition is fully appreciative of the fact - 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. I preface my question by reminding the House of the great contribution that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs made in drawing up and introducing the Regional Employment Development scheme when he was Minister for Labor and Immigration. As the Government has now decided to phase out any further projects under the RED scheme, with which the Minister was so proud to be associated, I ask: Is it a fact that, as has been reported, the Minister has been approached to draw up a replacement scheme to cover the interests of consumers which comes within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs in this House? 
-A11 right. That is certainly in excess of 10 minutes. As I say, I did not check his time with the clock, but I knew the dme at which an honourable member had spoken previously and I worked out the Minister's speaking dme from that I thought he had had at least 15 minutes. I am not disputing the dme he took. A couple of members from the Government side tonight spoke of the future of democracy in this place. i think it was the member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who said that we do not have democracy in Australia today. I think a fair number of honourable members on this side of the Parliament would agree with that view. But why is it that he makes the statement? He blames areas outside this place for the failure of democracy. As far as we are concerned we look straight at this place in relation to the future of democracy. I think the honourable member for Diamond Valley was also concerned about the future of democracy. I am quite confident that people outside this place are equally as concerned. This comes right back to what i said before about the Minister for Services and Property. We can have all the logic about the place but while he has the numbers we will not win. That is not democracy in my mind and it is not democracy in the people's mind. 
The suggestion was made that democracy was being thrown out the window as a result of certain decisions made in Queensland last week. I do not know the finer details of what took place in regard to the appointment of a person to fill a vacancy caused by the death of a senator from Queensland. i do not know that the matter was in the hands of the State orgaisation of the Labor Party. It is my understanding that it was requested to submit a panel of names. This it refused to do. Members of that State organisation were not to be bulldozed, as it were, by a government in Queensland, but apparently it is quite in order to bulldoze in the Australian Parliament where the Labor Party has the numbers. So, I turn this matter right around on the Minister for Services and Property. I say to the Minister, the honourable member for Burke and other speakers on the Government side that they should not squeal if they do not have the numbers. Members of the Labor Party were in a position to see that one of their members was elected on this occasion, but they have given the seat away themselves. 
Some Government supporters have been complaining that the Senate is blocking legislation. I remind honourable members on the Government side that all members of the Senate, with the exception of, I think, 2 people who were nominated by State governments, have been elected by the people. We must not forget that they have been elected by the people. What are the numbers in the Senate? What did the people do at the last election for the Senate? 
-A11 right. I will come to that. What did the people do at the last Senate election? They returned 30 Liberal-National Country Party senators, 28 Labor senators - 
I beg your pardon, 29 Labor senators and one senator whom we call an Independent from South Australia. 
There is a slight dispute from the Government benches as to whether one of the senators elected from Tasmania came in as an Independent or as an independent Liberal, but since that election he has joined the Liberal Party. So in actual fact, although he came as an Independent, he had the backing of Liberal Party supporters in Tasmania. Do not let us split staws on this. After all the composition of the Senate was 30 Opposition senators, 29 Labor senators and one Independent senator. Because of certain decisions made, the position of one of the Labor Party seats was filled by an Independent and the composition was then 30 Opposition senators and 28 Government senators. Now, because of a decision by the Australian Labor Party as such, the figures now are 30 Opposition senators, 27 Labor senators and 3 Independent senators. This decision was made by the Australian Labour Party. Firstly it would not accede to the conditions laid down by the Queensland Government. Secondly, even when the decision was made it expelled the very person who nominated in the interests of the Labor Party. Again I throw the words right back to the Minister for Services and Property: Do not squeal. 
Having said all these nasty things about the Minister, let me also pay tribute to him. I believe that since he has been the Minister for Services and Property things have not been all bad. He has introduced quite a few good things that I believe have been appreciated not only on his side of the chamber but on this side of the chamber as well. I believe that giving advanced information of sitting days is a big improvement. I am not too sure whether the actual sitting times are an improvement because they have varied from time to time. These are just a couple of the things that the Minister has introduced. I believe he has made it much easier for individual members to be able to carry out their duties. However I would like again to remind the Minister- I throw this virtually into his own court because of the conditions he has laid down- that if he wants cooperation from this side of the chamber, which he must have and he knows he must have, he must co-operate with the leaders on this side of the House. I think I can assure the Minister that if he is prepared to give honourable members on this side of the chamber a fair go he will certainly get a fair go from us. 
It was not my intention to join in this debate this evening. I think I should commence my remarks by saying how grateful this House should be, firstly, to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and, secondly, to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  for raising what appears to me to be a very important issue. I frankly admit and agree with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that he could not be expected to give a detailed answer to the honourable member for Deakin at very short notice. Nevertheless, a few principles are involved in this matter. 
I agree with the honourable member for Boothby that the Minister should at least have stayed here until the conclusion of the debate. To me, in this time of great unemployment, a government decision that indirectly will cut back the production of housing is a crime. It is all very well for us members of this chamber. We all, no doubt, have comfortable homes to go to. No doubt the bulk of the people of Australia have the homes that they require. But there are some people, of course, who do not have homes. We talk about cutting back expenditure in the interests of the economy. This cut-back is false economy. We want to encourage the productivity of this country and to encourage employment. This action by the Government will do the reverse. As the honourable member for Deakin said, interest rates charged to these people for bridging finance is in excess of 10 per cent more than the interest rate on their defence service homes loan. To me again this is a crime. 
I am very surprised at the Minister brushing off this question so lightly. It is pretty obvious that the Government has got its priorities mixed. Here we have an urgent situation in which people require homes. Whether a person is using government finance or private finance, the houses must be built. We must remember that this is not grant money that is coming from the Commonwealth; it is loan money. I have not had time to check the Budget Papers on this issue, but I would forecast that the money coming in from existing defence service homes loans certainly would be more than the money that is going out - 
-On a remarkable number of occasions when I speak in this House I either follow the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  or he follows me. It is unique whenever we happen to agree with one another but, of course, today is not one of those days. I tried to listen to the honourable member on this all-important question of trade. I could not quite follow his logic. He appeared to me to be somewhat critical of barter trade. I remind the honourable member that barter trade is one of those things that goes on throughout the world. To my mind he used the wrong phrase. The phrase we should be using is reciprocal arrangements; in other words, 'If you can support us, we will support you. ' This is not an uncommon arrangement. 
I do not wish to spend the few minutes available to me answering all the points raised by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I intend to deal with a couple of other matters. At the outset let me say that no country will survive very long unless its trade, both internally and externally, is of the order at which it can retain some form of balance. It is easy to cover the point of the successful balance overseas. That needs little explanation. There is either a favourable or unfavourable balance. Internal trade- trade between States and trade within a State- is a little more complicated. We all recognise that Australia basically is a raw material producing nation. Our major exports comprise such items as wool, meat, grain, coal and minerals. All are chiefly sold in the raw or crude state. As our population rises so too do our exports of goods rise, but it is just not automatic. Governments, both State and Federal, have an important role to play. Government decisions have a very big bearing on inducement, encouragement and incentive to produce. There are very few industries that expand or even continue under present conditions unless thay have some form of encouragement. This would include inducement to make a profit as well as taking preventive measures to avoid a loss. Industry must have capital invested. If the risk of loss is not minimal we cannot expect people to invest in industries. With interest rates running at near an all-time record high, to my mind there are two major non-encouraging issues. The first one is the risk of losing money invested and the second is the need for extra profit to cover the huge interest burden that is placed on most industries today. Added to these two issues, inflation helps capital investment because there is more money flowing, but it demands greater profits per item of goods produced. This in turn creates buyer resistance, resulting in a risk to the producer or the manufacturer. 
Over the weekend the world was shocked by the realisation that fuel costs would rise substantially in the not-too-distant future. This extra burden will be shared by all people in Australia, whether they be producers, manufacturers or consumers. Sooner or later it will have an effect on all transport costs. These will all rise. This will place a very heavy burden on those producers whose goods must be transported before sale. I am referring not only to those people living in the rural parts of Australia but also to the producers of Australia's large quantity of export goods. Take as an example the important commodity of petrol. The cost of petrol at the seaboard or refinery will start to rise, and even the cost of delivery of that fuel will increase. Take another example. In the centre of the electorate which I represent, Wimmera, I am informed that freight on fuel is about 4c a gallon. Not only will the price at the refinery rise but also the cost of delivery will increase. It is also interesting to note that there is a big differential in fuel prices at the present time. Super grade petrol can be bought in Melbourne- I refer to Melbourne as distinct from other capital cities- for 55c, 56c or 57c a gallon; but in the centre of my electorate, which is about only 200 miles from Melbourne, the base price at the bowser for super petrol runs at 72c or 73c- a variation from the metropolitan price by 15c, 16c or 17c. I wonder what the variation would be in some of the centres represented by my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett). 
The honourable member for Maranoa says that it is well over 85c. Compare that with 55c in a metropolitan area. These are some of the issues that I believe we should be looking at when discussing the all-important question of trade. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  will be well aware that before his Government came to office the previous government had a scheme known as the petrol price equalisation scheme. Under this scheme no petrol could be sold, originally, at more than 4 pence a gallon over and above the price in the capital city, but what happened? One of the first things that the present Government did when it came to office was to remove this scheme. 
Of course it is a shame. If the Government is sincere in all the statements it makes about equalising the rights of the individual, helping the underprivileged and all those sorts of things, why does it not do something about the equalisation of fuel prices throughout Australia? It can be said that the variation in prices I have mentioned this afternoon is due to price cutting. Maybe this is so, but if price cutting is effective in one area it stands to reason that someone in another area must pay for it. No one will convince me that the oil companies throughout the world are prepared to cut the price in one area without passing it on in another. It is all very well for someone fortunate enough to be able to get petrol at a reduced price- good luck to those people who can- but somebody eventually must pay. Very often the retailer is the first one who gets his fingers burnt, but sooner or later there is a loss against the oil company and, as I said, eventually this must be passed on in some other areas. 
There are few countries in the world which depend more on trade than does Australia. When the price of our major items of production falls then our balance of trade is very adversely affected. The Government assured us when it first came to office that it was going to find more markets to balance the weaknesses we run up against when prices fall. The Government said that is was going to find alternative markets, but I am sure that there are many people in Australia, particularly the primary producers, who do not agree that the Government has succeeded in honouring its promise of some 3 years ago. I know that the Minister for Overseas Trade has endeavoured to find markets. I am not sure where he has broken down. I have discussed this matter with him frequently, and I am quite sure that if he were to embark on a commodity agreement arrangement with a number of other countries he would succeed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to say a few words on the legislation now before the House. 
I hear a few groans from members of the Government. It is a pity that some Government members were not prepared to listen to reasonable reasons why both the National Country Party and the Liberal Party are opposing this legislation. Earlier this afternoon, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  gave a great oration in which he quoted a number of figures relating to various electorates. No doubt exists in my mind that the Minister is prepared to go to no end of trouble to upset the balance between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. 

 Speaker after  speaker  has made reference to the fact that the National Country Party is taking the lead in this debate over the Liberal Party. I wish members of the Government to know that the leader in this debate for the Opposition parties is none other than the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  He is a member of the Liberal Party, he is not a member of the National Country Party. He is the one who has organised the debate on this side of the chamber. I think that we can dispense with that claim by Government members. 
I was rather interested to note the criticism directed at the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  when he was indicating some opposition to this legislation. I was interested to read in  Hansard  of 30 September 1975 an answer to a question on notice asked by the honourable member for Maranoa and replied to by the Minister for Services and Property. The Minister gave a list of the polling booths which are to be closed before the next election in each House of Representatives electoral division. The electoral division which tops the list is Maranoa. Is it any wonder that the honourable member for Maranoa is complaining? The Minister cannot get his legislation passed by another place, so he is going to make voting as inconvenient as he possibly can for country people. In the electorate of Maranoa, he intends to close no fewer than 44 polling booths. 
This afternoon, the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  criticised members of this side of the House. I note however that no polling booths are to be closed in the electoral division of Henty. I have not the time to spell out the number of electorates in which polling booths are to be closed, other than to repeat that the honourable member for Maranoa is to lose 44 polling booths in his electorate, while the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is to lose 4 1 polling boothsMr SPEAKER-Order! I would point out to the honourable member for Wimmera that the honourable member for Maranoa on a point of order a little while ago drew attention to the need for relevance. This debate concerns the redistribution proposals for Victoria. A debate on the situation in Queensland is out of order. 
What I am referring to now are the problems associated with the various electorates. If you rule my remarks out of order,  Mr Speaker,  as they apply to the State of Queensland, perhaps I should talk about Victoria. After all, there are a number of electorates in that State where polling booths are to be closed. For instance, 3 1 polling booths are to be closed in the electoral division of Indi. In my seat of Wimmera, 30 will be closed. In the electorate of Corangamite, 16 polling booths will cease to operate. It is far more important, I think, that we should look at the overall picture. On a State by State basis we find that New South Wales is to lose 290 polling booths, Victoria 188, Queensland 208, South Australia 85, Western Australia 97 and Tasmania 48; a total of 916 polling booths will be closed as a result of the decision of the Minister for Services and Property. It is all very well for members of the Government to talk about the fact that they represent far more members of the community than do members of the National Country Party in the rural parts of Australia. Let us look at some of the figures. In the total metropolitan areas only 27 polling booths will be closed down, whereas in the country areas 889 booths will be closed. 
-There will be 889 booths closed down in the country areas and 27 in the metro.politan areas. 
We are talking about the parties, because the Minister raised this matter. 
-All right, I will come to the reasons. The Minister raised this matter and said that the Labor Party represents more seats in the country areas than does the National Country Party. It is rather interesting to look at these figures, because of those polling booths closed down, 158 are in areas represented by Labor Party members and 758 in areas represented by Liberal and National Country Party members. The point is whether this has been a case of the Minister going through the list and indicating the areas in which he could create inconvenience to the country people. It may be that he has worked out what the proportion of closures should be and then he has issued his instructions to the Commonwealth Electoral Officer who in turn has passed on the information. I do not know whether that is right; I am just putting it forward as a possibility. Unfortunately, I have not had time to work out the number of seats affected as a result of the closing down of these polling booths, but I have worked out that only 18 seats held by the Australian Labor Party will be affected. Of the 21 seats held by the National Country Party, 20 will be affected. Evidently the only one not affected will be the seat for the Northern Territory, which I cannot see mentioned here. 
I just raise these few points because I believe that supporters of the Government, including the Minister and a number of members, have given little thought, little consideration, to the problems associated with those people from country areas represented in this House. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Burke to interject and mumble in his beard. The point is, as I think the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said earlier today, that people are entitled to fair representation. The Government as a whole has always said that it wants to give equal representation to the people of Australia and yet when it comes to the voter who happens to reside in an area outside the metropolitan area, it does not give him true and equal representation. Honourable members opposite can say all they Uke about voters being able to cast an absentee vote and aU these sorts of things on polling day, but little do they realise the problems associated with that. 
As a matter of fact, I would remind the honourable member for Wilmot of what actually happened in the seat of Murray, I think it was, at the last election. Because of floods the election had to be postponed for a week. 
These are the sorts of little side issues about which we do not hear from members of the Government. I join with those honourable members on this side of the House who have frequently spoken against this loaded redistribution which the Government is trying to introduce. I think I can say without much fear of contradiction that when it was first announced that the seat of Wimmera would disappear my constituents have never been so much up in arms about a particular issue as they were about this one. That reaction was not confined to members of the political party of which I am a member. Rather, it came from aU sections of the community, including supporters of the Government who were very critical of the proposal. 
It is not a case of who I blame. This redistribution is sought to be introduced by the present Labor Government. The formula for the redistribution was such that representation would be taken away from country people. Anyone in his right mind could see when this legislation was first introduced that the alteration to the variation in the quota would adversely affect people in country areas. The Leader of the National Country Party rightly said this afternoon that to the best of his knowledge he knows of no country in the Western world that does not have some sort of loading in favour of rural areas. 
I was amazed to listen to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  this evening complaining that members of the Opposition originally were critical on the one hand of the Regional Employment Development scheme and yet on the other they supported the principals of our parties in the States in protesting against its cessation. What members of this Government do not understand is that honourable members on this side of the Chamber do not disagree with the objectives of the RED scheme; we agree that the RED scheme in principle is one of those plans which had to be introduced. We are surprised that the Government has decided to abandon it. What we have been criticising is not the system or the principles involved as originally laid down by the former Minister for Labour and Immigration, the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  but the way in which the Government has carried out those principles. 
I remind the honourable member for Robertson that the then Minister made it quite clear in his first announcement that he was not going to put up with all the useless projects that were being proposed, such as chipping of grass, kerbing and channelling and that type of work. But after a while, the Department or someone- I am not too sure who it was- changed these principles. This is one of the reasons why some of our State colleagues were objecting to the scheme. We do not object to the RED scheme as such; we favour it. We would like to see it continue or be reintroduced. After all, Australia has a huge number of people unemployed today. If the scheme were carried out to the full, at least something could be done to assist them. Some worthwhile benefit would be obtained from the RED scheme. 
I wish to direct my comments this evening to the immigration aspect of the appropriations for the Department of Labor and Immigration. I have been prompted to speak on this subject because of Government decisions which have been made. Despite comments to the contrary, I believe that Australia owes a great deal to its migrant population. After listening to some members of the Government party, one wonders just where they stand in relation to migrants. Let me quote just a few lines from a speech made by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  when he spoke in this debate on Thursday last, 2 October. He said:  . . . we got a lot of decent citizens from Hungary. They have settled here and they have adapted themselves to the Australian way of life. I believe that if we were able to assess the figures we would find that for every decent citizen who has settled here and has been an asset to Australia we got two or three scum . . . 
The honourable member for Hunter said that. I think that statement needs some further explanation by the honourable member for Hunter who referred to migrants in this country as scum. Perhaps that is only a percentage. He said they were not all scum. But he has quoted one out of every three or four in this instance as not being scum. This is a shocking statement. I think that the honourable member for Hunter should be more explicit as to what he really means because he refers in his comments to the fact that 75 per cent of our migrants are scum. That is certainly not the view on this side of the chamber. 
I am not misquoting the honourable member. Here are his remarks in  Hansard.  Honourable members opposite may read them for themselves. 
The former Minister for Labor and Immigration on 26 October last year issued a Press statement on the migration program for 1974-75. I quote part of that statement:  ... it would be necessary to impose restrictions but that these would not affect people who had already been approved for entry. But, having regard to the smaller immigration program- 80 000- decided upon by the Government for 1974-75, there would need to be a significant reduction in the approval rate. 
The statement continued: 
Family reunion still had the highest priority . . . 
It continued: 
Refugees and other individual cases where very strong compassionate circumstances existed, will, nevertheless, continue to be given special consideration. 
I have a case which I believe to be a compassionate one. I will not set out all the details because the former Minister for Labor and Immigration knows all about that case. He certainly accepted my submission to him and acted accordingly. But before completing the project he was, as we all know, removed from that office by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Naturally, he could not finalise this matter. 
Let me quote briefly part of a paragraph of the letter that the Minister wrote to me. It is dated 30 May 1975. The former Minister said: 
I am writing again with reference to your representations on behalf of  Mr 'H'  . . . . concerning the unsuccessful nomination for migrant entry . . . of Mr 'K' 
Because of the economic situation in Australia, the Government has found it necessary to impose occupational restrictions on the entry of migrants other than those qualifying as the spouse, dependent children, aged or dependent parents or fiances of Australian residents. 
The letter states further: 
However, in view of the information provided in your representations I have agreed to treat this as a special case and have directed my Department to accept the nomination and to forward details to the Australian Embassy in Athens. Provided  Mr 'K  ' is then found to be able to meet the migrant entry criteria other than the occupational requirements, his admission to Australia will be approved. 
That letter was dated 30 May. I received nothing further. The sponsor mentioned in the letter received nothing further. Then, on 1 5 September I wrote to the Department of Labor and Immigration and received a reply, a portion of which I will now quote. The letter states: 
As we have received no advice to date from Athens concerning the nomination, I have asked them to let me know the present position. However, I should mention that delays in the processing of applications are unavoidable in Greece because of the very high application rate. 
As soon as I have further information I will write to you again. 
Perhaps I was lucky. I used to receive a number of letters of this type from the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, Al Grassby, who said that he was going to do a lot of things, but nothing ever happened. I was informed by the nominator as late as last weekend that he had been in touch with his relatives in Greece. This was some 4 months from the date on which the former Minister originally gave his approval. I believe that the delay is a little too long. Yet, in Division 366, which is the appropriation to which I am speaking, we are being asked to approve a proposed expenditure of $4,884,600 for Overseas Services which are basically related to immigration. 
I regret the need to bring this case forward on this occasion. But I do believe that it provides an indication of what is taking place throughout Australia. It is one example only. Is it any wonder then that the migrant population of this country is very dissatisfied with the present regime holding office in Canberra. A delay of 4 months is something of which the Government ought to be ashamed. We must remember also that a big reduction has occurred in the number of migrants coming to Australia. If we were to revert to the former situation and if we sought to increase the number of migrants entering Australia to up to 180 000, how would officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration be able to cope if they cannot handle the few migrants who are coming to Australia now? 
This raises another question. I have only a minute remaining in which to deal with it. I refer to the reasons why the migrant intake into Australia is being cut back. The argument used is lack of employment opportunities. If we look at this on a short term basis, I must agree. If we bring to Australia a migrant who has not a job, we have on our hands another person who is unemployed. That is the short term view. If we look at the situation in the the long term, that argument is a fallacy; the true situation is the reverse. Every time a migrant family enters Australia, we must make sure that there is accommodation available immediately for it. This means that another house is being built. If there are enough of these migrants, another school and another hospital may be required. Work must be found. All these factors result. 
In conclusion what I am saying is that in my mind the Government is tackling the problem of immigration back to front. It is time the Government woke up and realised that immigration has played a very important role in the advancement of this nation. We owe a great debt of gratitude to our migrants. We have received much good service from them. I am amazed that the Government and the present Minister for Labor and Immigration (Sentor James McClelland) are not prepared to extend the program to a reasonable limit so that the original suggestion of the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, may be acceded to. 
-In the absence of the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  I feel that I should like to join the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  in paying a tribute to a former colleague in this place, Cyril Chambers. I did not serve in this House with Cyril Chambers but I have very vivid recollections of him. I recall that when I first came to this Parliament I inadvertently met him at the members' rooms in Melbourne on one occasion. He was very co-operative and passed on certain information to me as a new member, although we belonged to different parties. As a result of that first discussion I have a fairly high admiration for him as an individual. Rather as a coincidence, from that time on I seemed to meet him quite frequently. 
I would certainly join the honourable members for Boothby and Sydney in paying a tribute to a man who, I believe, was a true Australian He was a man who I believe belonged to the real old true Labor Party. Whilst we did not agree politically we certainly agreed on a lot of principles. I certainly admired him. A close friend of mine in north-western Victoria was a relative of Cyril Chambers.  His  family also speak very highly of Cyril Chambers. It is a pity that the Government did not see fit to carry out the normal procedures this morning. I am not too sure of the reasons why it did not. Some decision may have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to cut down to a minimum the number of condolence motions because of the importance of the other business of the House. 
I agree with the honourable member for Boothby. I do not think there is anything more important than at least to recognise Cyril Chambers and give honourable members an opportunity to voice their opinion of a former colleague, particularly a former Minister. So on behalf of the National Country Party I join with the two previous speakers in offering my sympathy to Cyril Chambers ' wife. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to correct the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and to remind him that this is not a cognate debate. I thought  Mr Acting Speaker  was very lenient to him in allowing him to wander all over the ship as far as the Electoral Bill (No. 2) is concerned. I wish to raise the question of the counting of votes in accordance with the amending Bill. As all of us in this House appreciate, as far as a Senate election is concerned, you work on the principle of a quota. In arriving at that quota you take into consideration the number of formal votes cast and also the number of candidates who are to be elected. The Bill also states that a vote will be classified as formal providing the ballot paper is filled in with the total numbers in accordance with the number of senators to be elected. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide talked about 300 or 400 candidates, which to me is absolutely ridiculous. If that were the case and we were to elect, say, 5 senators it would be obvious that a number of people could vote for candidates who were not even in the final running for election. That would automatically disfranchise those people who would cast a vote for the candidate in which they would be interested. Over the years the Government has always talked about equalisation, a fair go for all, one vote one value and that sort of thing. In previous debates not one member of the Government has said- I hope the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who is at the table, understands the matter and will give me an explanation- what will eventually be the quota after the first three senators or even the first 4 senators out of a team of five are elected. It would appear to me that whilst No. 1 would be able to fulfil a quota and Nos. 2 and 3 might be able to fulfil a quota, when it comes to Nos. 4 and 5 there is every possibility that no formal votes, or very few, would be left. If that were the case the senator who was appointed to be No. 4 or No. 5 would be elected with fewer votes than those who would be elected No. 2 or No. 3. 
I do not wish to say anything more about that matter other than that I hope that the Minister will be able to give me a firm assurance that senators so elected under this scheme will be elected on the same number of votes as Nos. 1, 2 and 3 could be elected on. I would like an assurance on that, because after all this is to my mind a discriminatory provision of the Bill. I do not know whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide had any justification in suggesting that a lot of migrants- I think that is what he saidcast informal votes at the last Senate election. All I can say to that is that the electorates he read out were returning basically Labor or Government members and it would appear as a result of that that those people who support Labor members must be less intelligent than those who support members on the Opposition side of the House. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Agriculture by reminding him of his earlier statement to the effect that the Australian wheat industry will have a small surplus of wheat at the end of this calendar year. I ask: Is he aware that the forthcoming harvest is expected to be fairly substantial? Is he also aware that Chile has been a good customer for Australian wheat over a number of years? What action has the Government taken to rectify the banning by certain unions of shipments of wheat to Chile? Does he foresee a continuation of this ban and, if so, what action can the industry expect from the Minister and his ministerial colleagues to overcome this impasse caused by the trade union movement attempting to control our exports? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will recall representations from a number of Government supporters regarding anomalies created by the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. Has he had an opportunity of examining the issues involved? If so, with what results? 
I rise to support the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply so ably moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and seconded by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  I take this opportunity to congratulate not only those 2 speakers but also a number of others. We have heard this afternoon from a number of new members who were making their maiden speeches. I do not wish to be over-critical of some of them, particularly those who sit on the opposite side of the  chamber from the Government. I say that very deliberately because, with the numbers in the chamber, it upsets me to hear members of the Liberal Party criticising those who are sitting opposite when in fact members of the National Country Party are sitting opposite. As honourable members know, members of the National Country Party support Liberal Party members to the full. I would just remind those new members on the Government side of the House that we are with them and are not opposed to them. 
We heard the only 2 new members of the Opposition deliver their maiden speeches this afternoon, and I congratulate both of them. I want to remind those 2 members, particularly the one who sits the closest to me, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  of some of the criticisms they made. The honourable member for Grayndler referred to a few issues on which he believed the Government had let the people down. One of those issues related to the unemployment situation. I remind him that the bulk of unemployment was created during a time when his father was the Prime Minister of this nation. I think he should always remember that fact when making such comments. 
The honourable member also went on to pay a tribute to his predecessor, Fred Daly. I certainly join with him in saying how much we appreciate the long service that that man gave to the Parliament of Australia. However, I could not altogether agree with him when he said that  Mr Daly  was deliberately endeavouring to ensure that democracy was working to the full, that every man and woman was entitled to a vote, and all these sorts of things. I just remind the honourable member that one of the very last actions carried out by  Mr Daly  as Minister for Services and Property in this chamber was to close down some 900 polling booths, which made it very difficult for many constituents throughout Australia to vote. 
Yes. I am reminded by my colleague the honourable member for Mallee that some people had to travel 250 kilometres to cast a vote. Not only was that the situation, but also postal facilities were such as a result of actions taken by the previous Government that the people who found themselves in that position were debarred from having a vote. That situation arose simply as a result of a decision taken by the then Minister for Services and Property. So again I say to new members in this House that when they are inclined to criticise the actions of the Government they should make sure of their facts before they start saying too much about the matter. 
As I said at the outset, I rise tonight to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. As well as offering my congratulations to many of the new members to the House, I want to congratulate also the new Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In doing so I want to thank him for his drive, his determination and his success in replacing a regime which almost ruined the Australian economy and our relations with many of our trading nations, to such a degree almost that no future government could retrieve the situation. A very serious situation has developed as a result of the actions of the previous Government. I thank the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)-  a wonderful combination- for presenting to the people of Australia an acceptable policy and for gaining the confidence of the people of Australia. The policy presented was overwhelmingly accepted. It has been said on a number of occasions in this House that the then Opposition was swept to office with an overwhelming majority which, until now, had been unknown in this Parliament. That in itself is worthy of the great appreciation that I express to both the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making reference to some of the reasons why a change in government had occurred. I said how I appreciated the great contribution made by the present Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. Let me refer now to some of the reasons why the policy put forward by the Government Parties was accepted. I believe that the Australian people realise what was happening to this country as a result of inflation, unemployment, lack of confidence on the part of industry, with business after business running down and primary producers experiencing the worst period since the depression in the early thirties. Despite all of those factors there are still some members of the Australian Labor Party who continue to ask that simple question: Why were we defeated? The threat of socialistic ideas bore heavily on the minds of many people, particularly the young who could see that their chance of purchasing and paying off homes was fast disappearing. These were some of the issues on the debit side for the ALP. 
On the credit side for the coalition was a very sound working partnership between the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. Both are men of strong character, determined to put Australia back on its feet. People certainly had confidence in them. I remind the House of the statement by the Prime Minister that all he could offer was sweat and hard times ahead for perhaps up to 3 years. He said again only recently that he could see a situation of unpopularity for the Government. But this is the price that we must pay for the removal of the regime that we have seen over recent years. In my mind the election result was an illustration that the people trust him fully. 
Speakers after speakers on the Opposition side continue to refer to the sacking of the then Prime Minister by  Sir John  Kerr. Surely,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  these honourable members must realise that the Australian people have spoken. The sooner they forget this particular line, the sooner the Australian people will begin to regain their confidence in the Australian Labor Party. One thing that I believe Australians will not tolerate is squealers. Politics is like a sport; it is just as honourable to be defeated providing one knows how to accept defeat. I have vivid recollections of how in the election before last the defeated member for Riverina carried on. I am sure that his actions did not do his cause any good; nor did they do the cause of the Australian Labor Party any good. 
That is true, he was not game to stand again. No doubt that experience proved the point. He probably realised how the people had spoken on the earlier occasion. 
There are many decisions made by the new Government for which I commend it. I think of the decisions to tighten up conditions of eligibility for unemployment relief. I believe that this was an issue that should have been attended to long before it was. Too often we see cases where people in receipt of unemployment relief in actual fact could have been and should have been earning from employment. I believe that it would be well worth while if the Government looked at continuing some form of scheme, somewhat similar to the original drought relief scheme or the Regional Employment Development scheme. I believe that there are opportunities available for assistance to be given to certain organisations, such as municipal bodies to carry out worthwhile projects. Two purposes would be served. Firstly, those organisations which might be in financial difficulties would be helped. Further employment opportunities would be created for the individual. I trust, too, that the Government will consider at an early date the reintroduction of an immigration program somewhat similar to that of a few years ago. 
I am glad to see the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs at the table. It has always been my belief that in the short term immigration may interfere with employment opportunities. But in the long term immigration creates employment. To achieve this end we must increase the level of immigration on a gradual basis. We must certainly not increase it suddenly. Such action, of course, would have great repercussions. 
I commend the Government for other benefits that have been introduced in recent times. I think of the superphosphate bounty and the investment allowance. I want to criticise those critics of such things as the re-introduction of the superphosphate bounty. They seem to think that there is nothing wrong with primary industries. I have never seen a situation where primary industries in the broad have run down to the level they have reached today. The real purpose of the bounty is to create some incentive for people in the primary industry field to get back on their feet. It is a case of introducing a scheme of benefit to a lot of people. To those critics who say it is only going to help the big men and is of no advantage to the small men I address a simple question: If that is the case are they prepared to forget about removal of the means test for people over seventy years of age? Their ultimate aim relates to people over sixty-five. However, the same principle applies. If it is good enough to try to prevent an apparently big primary producer from receiving a superphosphate bounty it is good enough not to remove the means test on people who have a big income and do not depend on it. So I say to those people that they want to have second thoughts about opposing the bounty. 
The next question I wish to raise is in relation to the all important Postal Commission. Honourable members will recall that some few years ago, under a Labor Government, many statements were made on the economics of the service to certain areas. The then Postmaster-General said that everything would have to be carried out on an economical basis. That former PostmasterGeneral, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  is sitting at the table now, not in Government but in Opposition. I challenge the Opposition to declare whether every new project to be carried out by the Postal Commission would have to be based on this issue of profit or loss. 
That is true, we may as well go back to the days of Cobb &amp; Co. After all, the Postal Commission is a service department. If we have to consider every move within the Commission on economical grounds then it will not be a service to the people. We do know that if we post a letter and it is sorted and does not move beyond that post office before it goes into the postal box for delivery the cost is very little. In other words there is a lot of profit from that letter. But if we post a letter to go from one side of Australia to the other that is costly. However, mail deliveries, to my mind, are a service to the community and we must not forget it. 
I refer now to the upgrading of telephone services. Under previous Liberal and Country Party governments there were great strides being made in the development of these services, particularly in country areas. Today that development has almost reached a standstill. Upgrading or development is not keeping pace with the deterioration of such services with the effluxion of time. Few days or weeks would go by when I do not receive some request from an organisation or individual asking for assistance- asking that something done as far as the Telecommunications Commission is concerned. Since the Labor Party established the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commissions there has been a steady but sure dropping off in the service. We were proud of the service that we once had in this country. Today we look at the severe increases in the various costs that everyone has to pay for and a very definite slowing down in capital works programs. No doubt every honourable member in this House could refer to some particular project that was on the list to be upgraded, improved, rebuilt, or whatever, and which has been shelved or postponed. I think of a new post office that the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  was responsible for commencing before I took over part of his electorate some years ago. I refer to the Ararat post office. We virtually had plans and everything drawn up only to be told that because of lack of finance it had to be postponed; for how long we do not know. Consider the closing down of a lot of small unofficial post offices. 
They are most efficient. If it were not for the non-official post offices the cost of delivery of mails throughout Australia would be ever so much higher. In some areas we have seen the removal of pillar boxes because of cost. I do not want to point the finger at officers of the Department because they are only doing their duty, but I was informed the other day that they were removing a particular pillar box because they wanted it in some other position. We all know what pillar boxes are. They are only a little thing made of a bit of metal but I am told that they cost about $150. Yet the Post Office cannot afford to build new ones. It has to replace them or take them from somewhere else to fill a gap. To my mind this is a shocking state of affairs. 
The delay in the decision to upgrade telephone exchanges in many rural areas, large and small, is certainly upsetting the people of Australia. I repeat that this is no fault of the office bearers within the Australian Postal Commission because they are doing their job.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  these are some of the issues which I shall point out to the House this evening. There are a lot of other problems. A lot of other work has to be done by members of this Government to try to undo the great damage that has been done in the last 3 years when a Labor Government was in office. It is a bit like throwing a match into the scrub. It does not take much to light a fire but it takes a mighty lot to put it out. The problem is that the present Government finds itself with a deficit of some $5,000m. Any responsible Government will take action to try to resolve this position. 
This Government has to try to rectify a problem which was created by a Government which literally was prepared to buy votes wherever and whenever possible. If one wanted money all one had to do was to yell out for it. This, of course, was the ruination of the economy. The people of Australia could see what was developing in this country. They realised that sooner or later they would have to pay for these things. As I said earlier in my remarks, the young people were the ones who turned on the then Government. They were trying to establish themselves in their homes. The middle-aged person who was trying to develop a business realised too that this could not go on indefinitely. 
The cost of keeping people employed was creating other problems and so the then Government went on and on until we got to a stage where people said: 'No more'. That is why we saw a huge turn around in the membership of this chamber. It was an all-time record high majority for a government. No doubt, some of these faces that we have in the chamber today may not be with us beyond the next election, possibly in 3 years' time. But if the present Opposition led by  Mr Whitlam  continues, as I said earlier, squealing and carrying on, I can see even more people on the Opposition side being replaced by members of the Government. So this is why I have great pleasure in supporting the original motion moved by the honourable member for EdenMonaro and seconded by the honourable member for Dawson. I certainly strongly oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  It is rather interesting to note that on at least 2 occasions we have seen members of the Opposition speaking twice during the Address-in-Reply debate. This is a most unusual situation. Of course, they are quite at liberty to do so because they are speaking to the amendment. What does this mean? Does it mean that the Opposition has an insufficient number of speakers to back up its argument because of the large number of members on the Government side? These are the reasons why I support the motion before the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer the Minister to a Social Security pamphlet dated November 1975 which states: 'People over 70 years of age may receive the pension free of means test'. I also refer the Minister to statements appearing in the Melbourne newspapers of 20 March last and attributed to the Minister for Social Security. They say in part: 'Pensioners over 69 years of age are not subject to a means test'. As this statement has created a lot of confusion amongst this age group, will the Minister for Health consult with the Minister for Social Security with a view to making a further statement and so clear the air on this all-important question as to whether a pension free of means test is available at 69 years or 70 years of age? 
-Has the Minister for Health read reports in a number of today's newspapers to the effect that he was advocating the banning of cigarette advertising in all forms of the media and that that would be carried out in conjunction with State governments? Are these reports correct? 
-We now speak on the cognate debate covering the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill 1976 and the Phosphate Fertilizer Bounty Amendment Bill 1976. During the afternoon there have been a number of speakers, basically from our side of the Parliament. To me it has developed into a very interesting discussion. In summing up towards the end of this debate I find that there are 2 issues. The first one, which is pretty pronounced, is the lack of knowledge and lack of interest by members of the Opposition parties. 
There have been 3 Opposition speakers. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating ). who sits on the front bench, led for the Opposition and proved beyond all doubt that he had little interest in the particular measures before the chamber. He could not decide what were the differences between the 2 Bills, so he came down on the side of supporting one and opposing the other. Yet both Bills have virtually the same purpose. He then went on to say that the Labor Party, when in government, was looking at ways and means of helping the industry, and particularly the small producer. He referred to the superphosphate bounty. Yet in this place, when Opposition members have an opportunity to do something for the primary industries of Australia, they decide that they are going to oppose the Bill. It just does not quite seem to weigh up with me. 
An interesting point that has come to my notice is the interest shown by my colleagues in the Liberal Party. I note with great interest that a number of metropolitan members have supported this legislation. Normally one could expect country members to do so. It comes as a little surprise but, well, those of use who have followed the activities of that Party can understand it. Perhaps it was my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who suggested that if the conservationists would only appreciate the true value of superphosphate for their cause, then it would not only be accepted by the Australian Labor Party but by the overwhelming majority of the people of Australia. I think there might be some truth in that. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  also entered this debate, and this of course was rather amusing because it is pretty obvious that he is still of the opinion that the rural industries are thriving. I do not wish to speak at any length at this stage on what he had to say. If I get time I shall say a little bit more about him later on. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who has taken some interest in rural matters, spoke at quite some length and covered a lot of ground, but I believe that he was somewhat mixed up in his views on both Bills before the chamber. He made great criticism of the fact that there was only one National Country Party member who had spoken on the Bills. I think that in fairness the honourable for Fraser ought to be a little more sincere in his comments, because he must know that the legislation is still being discussed in the chamber. It is not a case of who speaks first, it is a case of who speaks in total- in other words, where we finish up when the debate is concluded. From the information that has been passed on to me by my Whip, there are quite a number of speakers from the Liberal Party, as well as the National Country Party. The only difference is that because of the time factor a number of interested National Country Party members who wanted to speak on this Bill were actually balloted out. In the Labor Party there were three speakers. The shadow Minister for Primary Industry, or the then shadow Minister- he was the shadow Minister for Primary Industry earlier today but I am told that he is no longer the shadow Minister for Primary Industry; perhaps one should congratulate the Leader of the Opposition for that-was the second  speaker  and, as I said, the honourable member for Fraser was the third  speaker.  Now, if that is all Opposition members can rake up, well there is very little future for them in getting into deep discussion on rural problems. 
One of the things that the honourable member for Fraser did say was that he wanted to know what the need was for the introduction of this bounty. 
Well now, here is an honourable member interjecting, wanting to know what I am going to get out of it. It would appear that this is not the first interjection we have had from the Labor Party along these lines and it would appear to me that this is the only thing that honourable members opposite could be interested in- self-interest first. As far as I am concerned, it matters not what I get out of it at all. I am the consumer of a certain quantity of superphosphate, but that has nothing to do with the Bill and I am absolutely disappointed and disgusted at the way the Opposition members continue to attack the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the grounds that he is getting some personal benefit from the bounty. 
What these people overlook is the fact that the Prime Minister, in his interests in the development of Australia is putting a lot more into it than a lot of the people in the Opposition are. 
I want to come back to what the member for Fraser had to say. I cannot spend too much time in answering some of these ridiculous interjections from the Opposition benches. I want to draw the honourable member's attention to the need that he is crying out for. The beef industry depends on superphosphate as do the dairying industry and the fruit industry. These 3 industries would never be in a worse situation than they arc at this very time. These circumstances have been brought about broadly by decisions made in the last two or three years. 
There is one industry that is a fairly substantial consumer of superphosphate. That is the grain industry. That industry is in a little more brighter situation than the 3 that I have just mentioned. I say to those who are critical of this industry because, on the surface, it would appear to be healthy, that really it is not booming. I ask honourable members to bear with me for a moment while I point out why in my opinion the wheat industry, like some of these other industries, is not booming and why therefore these industries do need some assistance. 
In the year 1961-62 the home consumption price, which represents virtually the cost of production, was $ 1 .58 a bushel. In 1975-76 that consumption price had risen to $2.67 or $98 per tonne. The present export price is running at approximately $ 1 10 per tonne to $ 120 per tonne, or approaching $3 a bushel. Those figures do not include all the costs that are incurred and which must be deducted, such as freight. 
One important aspect is that wheat is a semiperishable item only. Naturally, it is subject to great fluctuations in demand and therefore fluctuations in price. Here is the killer. Australia is not, in terms of world production, a large wheat producing country. We put out on average between 6.5 million tonnes and 11.5 million tonnes over the last 2 years. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produces between 85 million tonnes and 1 10 million tonnes a year while the production by North America is between 55 million tonnes and 65 million tonnes. From those figures honourable members can see that, if any one of those three major producing countries has a very successful season, a large quantity of wheat will be available and the price will go down. If they have poor seasons, a shortage would occur and prices would rise. 
The world wheat trade is approximately 65 million tonnes a year. That is not a very substantial figure. Honourable members can appreciate then that a 10 per cent increase in production can make the situation very different for this industry in Australia. I say to the honourable member for Fraser that although the wheat industry would appear on the surface to be thriving in actual fact, as I can prove to the honourable member if he studies the figures that I have provided, the industry balances on a razor's edge. 
With respect to the consumption of superphosphate, I point out that the wheat industry consumes only approximately 20 per cent of the superphosphate that is sold throughout Australia. The grazing industry is the largest consumer of superphosphate. The present situation that has developed with respect to the grazing industry is such that those in that industry arc in such a desperate plight that many of them cannot even afford to buy superphosphate. So, they are not in a position to be on the receiving end of this bounty. I would estimate that the grazing industry would consume 60 per cent to 65 per cent of superphosphate sold. 
If honourable members look at page 33 of the report on superphosphate by the Industries Assistance Commission, they will see a most interesting article on the relationship of the price of superphosphate to 2 industries, namely, wheat and wool. It is pretty obvious that the honourable member for Fraser has not studied this report. Dividing the price of superphosphate by the price of wheat and taking 100 as the index for 1972, the index for 1976 is 144. On a similar calculation for wool, the index for 1976 is 326. In other words, the rate of increase in the price of superphosphate is more than 3 times the rate of increase in returns from wool. Unfortunately beef has not had a mention. I suppose it would be fair to say that a lot of beef is produced in Australia without the need for the use of superphosphate. Therefore, it would possibly be unfair to make a comparison because some bed' herds need it, some do not. It is rather interesting if we look at this too. In the same base year, 1972, the price of superphosphate, in the broad, was about $15 per tonne. Today it is in excess of $60 per tonne. That is a 400 per cent rise. I am being very conservative when I say that the current price of beef in Australia today would be less than half of what it was in 1 972. 
Yes, very conservative, as my friend from Darling Downs said. No doubt, to be more accurate, it would be down to about onethird. Let us say it is one-half. That is equivalent to a relative rise of 800 per cent. If my friend from Fraser wants more proof of the need for this legislation, I am afraid that he does not understand the industry and its problems at all. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro made a great contribution to this debate this afternoon. He also referred to the importance of superphosphate to Australia as a nation, particularly as an exporting nation. I agree entirely with his view that we have a responsibility as a world food producing nation. We hear from time to time that Australia is not doing enough to assist the developing countries, the countries which are in financial difficulties. Such claims continue. I suppose most members would be in the same position as I am. Rarely would a week or a fortnight go by without our hearing some comment about it. 
What the Labor Party is doing is discouraging production to such a degree that we could find ourselves producing much less. Those people who do not understand the proper use of superphosphate would naturally not realise that it may take some years for the benefit of superphosphate to leach itself out of the soil. But once it is leached out it takes many, many years to get it back again. So whilst it may appear to be all right to cut down on the use of it, and you will get away with it for one year, two years or maybe three years, depending on your rainfall, if it does leach out completely then you are in trouble because it would cost ever so much more to get the soil back into the state it was in before you gave up using superphosphate. These are some of the reasons for the legislation and I point them out to the honourable member for Fraser and others who have shown little sympathy for the plight of the primary producer at the present time. 
The former Prime Minister said that the legislation was discriminatory and that it was unjust. The money should have been used to provide 'social justice'- I think they were the words he used. He repeated the old catchcry about the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  getting a benefit of $5,000, more or less at the cost of the smaller producer. He talked about a means test, as have other members of the Opposition, and asked why the Government should be assisting the bigger man, the vested interests and all these sorts of things. One of my colleagues, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  earlier in the afternoon referred to the fact that for every person employed in the motor industry there is a subsidy through protection of some $4,000. The honourable member who made the comment - 
That is pretty right, too. He understands what he is talking about and he certainly does not play around with facts. I understand that protection for the chemical industry costs something like $4,500 per year for each worker in the industry. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  gave us a very interesting run down on the phosphate deposits at Duchess in Queensland. I go along with the honourable member for Mackellar. The only point is that at this juncture the cost might be beyond us. If we have eventually to develop that project, the small cost to the Treasury of $30m, which is the amount suggested for superphosphate bounty, may be chicken feed. But we may be compelled to do this. As I have said, I go along with the honourable member for Mackellar because I believe that this is something that we should investigate very quickly. Sooner or later we will have to do something about the matter. 
I am reminded, too, after listening to the Leader of the Opposition, of the continual statements by the former member for Riverina- not the present one, but the former one; I want to make that clear- who kept harping on the question - 
My colleague asks: 'What was his name?' He is well known by the name of Al Grassby. Of course, anyone with a knowledge of his understanding of rural industries will appreciate how he can get off the beam at times. Al Grassby kept harping on the proposition that the primary producer never got the money at all; that it all went into the industry. I am starting to wonder, because of the way he spoke this afternoon, whether the Leader of the Opposition has not been painted with the same brush. After all. it is very important that we protect a heritage that is so important to us. 
I do not think there is any need for me to make any further comment as to the need to protect this industry. I conclude by reminding honourable members who are so critical of the introduction of the subsidy of the type of increases primary producers have had to pay in a very short time. In 1972, when the present Government Parties were in office, the average price of fertiliser at works was $15.18 a tonne. Then the price started to rise. When the Labor Government came to office we saw the increased cost of this, that and the other. In 1975 the price rose to $54.78 a tonne. This year it is $60-plus a tonne. Is anybody in the Labor Party prepared to accept that any individual, other than a primary producer, should be prepared to meet a four-fold increase in his costs in his industry in about 4 years? I hope that those people who are advocating limited quantities of fertiliser and a means test do likewise when they consider such things as the age pension. I do not see them suggesting that for one moment. They believe that we should not do away with the means test for the age pension, and this is an identical situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I rise to support the Government's proposal. I wish at the same time to explain the motion to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  because he misunderstands, I believe, the importance of the introduction of the motion moved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and also Notice of Motion No. 2. The first point I want to make is that the Standing Orders under which we have been operating in the past naturally were introduced long before we had what we call our 11 o'clock rule. At that time honourable members could speak for 10 minutes on the adjournment debate which could go on virtually indefinitely, but since the 11 o'clock rule was introduced it automatically reduced the number of speakers to three, as was mentioned by the Minister. I think a 5-minute speaking period on the adjournment debate will in some instances be a little severe on members who wish to raise something of great importance rather than matters which are perhaps of a domestic nature. However, a 5-minute speaking period will give an opportunity to many more members in this place to be able to raise important questions. 
I cannot quite go along with the honourable member for Corio who said that the Opposition is going to oppose Notice of Motion No. 2 which will enable a Minister to speak after 1 1 o'clock for a period not exceeding 10 minutes. I feel this proposal should be supported by the Opposition because its supporters know full well that it will give them the opportunity of being able to make full use of the time allocated for the adjournment debate. 
In my experience over the years there have been many occasions when adjournment debates have not always confined to the old principle of a Government  speaker  to be followed by an Opposition  speaker.  There are occasions when a number of Opposition speakers will dominate the debate or when Government speakers will dominate the debate. Therefore I cannot understand why the honourable member for Corio opposes this motion. After all, I think it is in the interest of back benchers to have the opportunity to speak. 
In the past, 3 members only have been able to speak on the adjournment assuming that they have all taken their full speaking time. If a Minister has wanted to answer some of the points made during the adjournment debate we have had a situation where only 2 honourable members have been able to speak. Such an arrangement is completely impractical. Therefore I think this is a good move. I emphasise that the move is being made on a trial basis. I appeal to Opposition members to allow the second motion to pass, as has been suggested by the Minister. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to address my remarks this evening to  Mr Speaker  through you as his  Deputy. Sir, you,  like  Mr Speaker,  have been a member of this chamber for many years and you will appreciate that the work load in this Parliament has increased no end over those years. I think most of the longer serving members will agree that some years ago their work load in the chamber and in the Parliament was such that they could handle it with relative ease. But in recent times that load has increased dramatically. I think one of the contributing factors to this increase is the vast amount of mail that comes into this place. This is made up of a number of kinds. Firstly, individuals write to their respective members. They have every right to do that and I have no objections to it. I would encourage it because I think this is only right and proper. We also get a great deal of correspondence from the various departments, industry and the like. I think in the main this is also to be welcomed because it gives members of Parliament an opportunity of knowing what is going on outside this place. It gives them an opportunity of finding out what industries think. 
But one thing concerns me greatly. No doubt many members in this chamber who have checked their mail as late as this evening will have noticed that there is a great influx of correspondence addressed to an individual member but carrying no postage stamps at all. For instance, I have a letter addressed to  Mr B.  King, M.H.R. There is nothing else on the envelope. On opening it I found it contained a lot of propaganda from an East Timor relief fund asking for a donation. I do not waste my time reading such propaganda if it does not bear a signature or is not properly addressed to me as a member. There is only one place for it and that is the round filing cabinet. That is one piece of correspondence. A second one was another small envelope addressed to the  Hon.  R. S. King. There was nothing else on it. I duly opened the envelope. This takes time which is somewhat valuable in this place. Inside was a little piece of yellow paper and on it is a printed letter. 
Yes, it is a roneoed form of letter. My address at Parliament House has been typed in. The correspondence reads: 
Dear  Sir. 
I am a great admirer of your wonderful work for the good people of Australia. 
I accept that. It continues: 
May I wish you good health, and every health and happiness in the future. 
I am a collector of autographed letters, and invite you to briefly reply to this letter for my collection. 
With sincere thanks, and best wishes from England. 
Yours most sincerely, PETER W. LADKIN. 
The address is:  38 Glenville Drive, Stockland Green, Birmingham, B23 6PR, West Midlands, England 
The date is 30 March 1976.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I should like you or  Mr Speaker  to investigate where such correspondence originates. It is obvious that someone within these premises is bypassing the normal procedures of the Post Office by posting this correspondence in Parliament House. This letter originated in England, I presume. 
It has a very cheap postage rate. Evidently someone on behalf of  Mr Ladkin  is making sure that someone gets this correspondence so that he in turn can get the autographs of various members of this Parliament. Members of Parliament, I believe, should not have this responsibility. I am concerned with the vast quantity of mail that is being delivered under false pretences into this Parliament. I repeat that we have individual members sending out correspondence and Ministers, departments and officers within this Parliament sending correspondence, but I do not believe that we should be sidetracking the Post Office by distributing mail in the way I have described. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to take the matter up with  Mr Speaker. 
-After listening to the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I just wonder what makes these people think this way. They seem to have a thing about assisting any form of advancement, any form of industry, any form of expansion. They seem to have a thing about multi-nationals and big business, yet they seem to overlook the fact that without these so-called big businesses there would be little employment available. Their thinking along this line is very narrow. 
Of course it helps the smaller businessman. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports talked about the escalation of the depreciation allowance. Of course that would be true because very early in his position as Treasurer he actually slashed the normal depreciation allowances in many types of industry, particularly the rural industry, almost to the point where some industries were non-existent and some industries would have to be maintained for 30 to 40 years to be able to use up their total allowances. 
I want to refer this afternoon to clause 10 which inserts into subdivision B of the Act new section 82aa. I commend the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  for raising this very important issue in which I am interested. He referred to leasing. In the second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
It has been the Government's wish and expectation all along- with the position of smaller businesses particularly in mind- that the benefit or the allowance provided in respect of leased plant be passed by lessors through to the lessees who actually operate the plant in productive use. The special provisions contained in the Bill to apply to leased plant have been drawn up with this end in mind. 
Reference is made to partnerships in proposed section 82AJ but I do not want to deal with this at this stage. Proposed section 82aa refers to longterm leases. Proposed section 82AQ defines 'long-term lease agreement'. Basically it refers to a 4-year period. The honourable member for Balaclava had something to say on this and I wish to enlarge on it, because there is a trend today, due to high costs, high prices of materials and machinery, towards leasing, hiring and syndication. I think this is fair enough where a partnership is involved. This is covered in proposed section 82AJ. The other side of the problem- that is, syndication- is not quite as clearcut. I believe, firstly, that in the case of partnerships leasing can be a bit lengthy if it is to continue for a period of 4 years. In other words, if an individual or a single company were to purchase an item over the reasonable period of 4 years, it is obvious that if 4 individuals or companies were to purchase the same piece of equipment the time should be reduced to one year. I put that proposition to the Minister. I hope that when consideration is being given to the proposals put forward by the honourable member for Balaclava he will also look at that particular point. 
Another problem also arises in regard to leasing by a syndicate, namely, that it is very difficult to obtain direct ownership because an item can be leased on a small deposit or, in some cases, no deposit and the payments can be divided between those who are making use of the machine being leased. At the end of the leasing period, whether it be 12 months or longer, the members of the syndicate contribute their share. But there is no clear indication on purchase what percentage each of them would own. I trust that the Minister and the Government will give consideration to the issues I have put forward. Apart from those matters which I have mentioned, I support this measure wholeheartedly. I do not go along with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, the honourable member for Cunningham and other speakers from the Labor Party who appear to be very frightened that this measure is going to help industry. We must be very mindful of one important aspect: The Government has had to introduce measures to stimulate industry because, as we all know, there were 3 years of Labor regime in this Parliament. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to an article on page 2 of the May edition of the publication known as  Australia Post?  Under the title 'True or False' the first question asked is: 'The objective of the Postal Commission is to provide a fast and efficient service at any costtrue or false?' I ask the Minister this question because, to my mind, the question in the article is misleading. The answer given in the article is this: 
False. Our objective- as laid down by the  Chairman, Mr Jim  Kennedy . . . 
The article then goes on to give the reasons. I ask the Minister: Who is responsible for the objectives and policies? Is the  Chairman  responsible, or are they laid down in the Act which was introduced by the previous Labor Government? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) To what extent have there been stoppages at meat abattoirs in Victoria during 1975-76. 
What meat firms had disruptions in the form of strikes during the same year. 
3) What effect have such disturbances had on ( a) the production of meat for local consumption, (b) the production of meat for export and (c) the financial returns to primary producers. 
Have these strikes been of lengthy or short duration. 
To what extent have stock entered at regular markets for slaughter in Victoria been transported to other States. 
Do (a) strikers and (b) those who are stood down because of strikes receive unemployment relief. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade will no doubt be well aware of the ban on beef imports by the European Economic Community and the effect it is having on Australian beef producers. Can the Minister give the House an assurance that the Government is doing all it possibly can to persuade the EEC countries to lift such a ban? 
-As this is the last opportunity that we have in a grievance debate to bring forward issues prior to the bringing down of the next Budget I take the opportunity this morning of raising a few matters that concern me greatly. I refer basically to what was once recognised as Australia's greatest industry, the rural industry. It is rather interesting to follow my old friend, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  having heard what he had to say on this important question of primary industries. He made very little contribution other than to try to defend some cause in Russia. I am sure that those honourable members who are present and who listened to the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  would agree with me that it is no wonder that primary industries certainly ran down in the last 3 years as a result of the lack of interest and knowledge of this industry in the members of the last Government. This is the main cause of the trouble in which they are today. The members of the last  Government certainly  hastened to disaster. Since the former Labor Government was removed from office I am sure that the new Government has received a lot of support from people in primary industry, agreeing that the Government is doing all it possibly can. At the same time members of the present Opposition have been so terribly critical. 
Without going into a lot of detail I want to refer briefly to one or two matters. The Opposition was very upset because the Government tried to help primary industry with the reintroduction of a superphosphate bounty. That was one issue that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  could not get away from; he kept referring to the Government helping the big, successful primary producer. The knowledge of the then shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  is anything but good, but admittedly he is learning. He too was very critical of the Government. The Opposition has been very critical of the dairy industry. Yet butter is one commodity whose price has not risen to any great extent when compared with other commodities. I think in the broad the price of butter today is double what it was 30 or 40 years ago. Yet the Opposition is not prepared to assist the dairy industry. It has been critical of the assistance the Government provided when it amended the meat export levy. Those are just some of the matters of which the Opposition has been critical. 
Last year, many honourable members will recall, the then Government tried to reduce the guaranteed price of wool from 250c to 200c a kilo, but because of pressure from the industry it reluctantly retained the price of 250c. 
I think the honourable member for Hunter made some reference to fuel equalisation. Who removed that? It was the then Labor Government. That shows the sort of interest it has in primary industries. It unfortunately has ignored the importance of commodity agreements. My friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  did have some sympathy in relation to commodity agreements when he was Minister, but he received very little support from his colleagues. Yesterday the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  referred to meat exports to the European Economic Community. Since then I have had an opportunity to look at some figures to see what has actually happened in relation to that trade. The honourable member for Hunter referred to a favourable balance of trade with Russia. In the year 1954-55 Australia had a successful balance of trade with the EEC countries. In that year our exports to those countries totalled US$920m and our imports totalled US$925m. So our imports and exports were almost balanced. But 10 years later our exports have risen by something like US$4 16m to US$ 1,336m, while our imports have increased by US$1,412m to US$2,387m. Broadly speaking, our balance of trade with the United States is holding its own much to the disappointment of some members of the Opposition. I believe that we are improving our trading relations with Japan. Again I would stress the importance of commodity agreements with that country, such as that which we have in relation to minerals. 
Of course, our meat industry is in a disastrous situation. I wish to cite some figures brought out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which will give honourable members an indication of the reason that the price of meat is so terribly high today. Taking the last figure which is available to me, which is for June 1975, the average auction price paid to the beef producer was 32.9c per kilogram. The wholesale price was 61.5c and the retail price was 1 16c. If one looks at the marginsin other words, the profit- one sees that the primary producer received a total income of 32.9c per kilogram, or near enough to 33c. The wholesalers margin was 28.6c and the retailers margin was 54.5c. So it can be seen why we have fairly high meat prices and low returns to the producers. I think we could ask what other factors are reflected in the tremendous profit- or loss, as it were-on the one hand, and high costs, on the other hand to the meat producer. 
Honourable members will be able to see in an answer provided by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  which appears in yesterday's  Hansard  that something like 31 meat companies in Victoria suffered strikes between 1 January 1975 and 1 July 1975. 
There were 31 strikes over a 6 months period. In answer to the interjection from my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia, he will find that on average those strikes lasted for about 3 days. That makes a total of 93 days. If one works on the assumption that the number of employees involved was 500 to 1000, it works out that over that 6 months period- I remind the House that 1 am speaking of one State alone- roughly 1 400 000 man days were lost, in round figures. That is a lot of man days. 
My colleague from Capricornia is pretty bright. He has worked it out pretty hurriedly as being 1 1 million man hours, working on the basis of 1 400 000 eight-hour days. Is it any wonder that meat is expensive. One of the reasons I rose in my place today was to draw attention to some of the problems facing primary industry. 
The honourable member for Batman was somewhat critical earlier this morning in relation to the slaughtering and the burying of large quantities of cattle. Anyone who takes that line is completely unaware of the situation. The honourable member does not seem to realise that because of the strikes to which I referred, because of industrial unrest, because of lack of production, it costs approximately $50 to have an animal slaughtered and made ready for sale in the butcher shop. I give that figure very much in the broad; do not quote me with any accuracy. The figure varies because of size, age and so on of the cattle. But, in the broad, it costs about $50 to get an animal to the butcher shop. If the butcher shop returns only $50 on that meat, it is obvious that the producer will not receive anything at all. If the return is less than $50- the honourable member for Batman does not seem to be aware of this because that type of cattle would produce less than $50 worth of meatthen the retailer or the wholesaler or the firms concerned would suffer a loss. So that is why we are in real strife. 
If I had the time I could go on to make reference to many other issues which I believe are terribly important. I could refer to the way in which the previous Government affected primary producers as a whole. I could refer to such things as communications, transport, the way in which the previous Government increased postal charges from 10 cents to 18 cents, the way in which it established 2 commissions and the way in which it tried to convince people that it was doing so on an economical basis when it was doing so at the cost in those areas of general development. Many honourable members in all parties in this House are suffering indirectly as a result of those decisions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I join with previous speakers in the debate in supporting the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund (Distribution of Surplus to Pensioners) Bill 1976. 1 indicate, as they have indicated, that it is a very simple, straightforward measure. In fact, it gives authority to pay the surplus funds to those who are entitled to a share of the surplus contributions to a compulsory superannuation fund between July 1964 and September 1972. The total amount involved is $6,337,000. 
I take this opportunity to say that no man in this Parliament has contributed more in kind to the introduction of this Bill than has the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who preceded me in the debate. Indeed, I believe that all ex-servicemen throughout Australia who know of the activities of and the contribution by the honourable member for Herbert, in relation to not only this matter but also other matters concerning ex-servicemen, would join with me in saying a very big thank-you to him. After all, he understands the situation and the problems of ex-servicemen, and he certainly has stayed with them right through to the bitter end, often for many years. It was the honourable member who, way back in 1972, commenced negotiations to have this procedure implemented. It was only because of a change of government in late 1972 that he did not succeed on that occasion. But the strange thing is that we have had to wait for more than 3 years for the decision to be made and for the Bill to be brought before the House. 
I disagree with my Opposition colleagues when they say that they have done more for exservicemen than has the present Government. This is a typical illustration of something that they did not do during the 3 years they were in government. One must conclude by asking the simple question: Why? Maybe it was because of their attitude that they could keep this $6m in Consolidated Revenue in order to improve the appearance of the deficit that they had at the time. I join with other speakers in the debate in commending the Government, firstly, for introducing the Bill and, secondly, for ensuring that it was introduced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I sympathise with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  in the problem that he has raised and I trust that when the Government, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  or someone else is giving some consideration to further the cause of some of the outlying electorates of Australia we will have his support on that occasion. After all, I know of plenty of areas in which the people receive services equally as bad as those referred to by the honourable member for Stun. 
I hear the honourable member for Kennedy interjecting. I know that my colleague from Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  has the same complaints. Indeed, I represent a Victorian electorate which is small by comparison with the electorates of those honourable members and I know that certain areas of that electorate suffer as a result of poor reception. The Broadcasting and 
Television Amendment Bill is to give effect to a government decision, firstly on the banning of advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on broadcasting and television stations as from 1 September 1976, and secondly to amend the existing provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act in relation to licensing of television translator stations, community television aerial systems and to extend the provisions of the Act relating to television translator stations to permit the licensing of broadcasting translator stations. In fact, this Bill follows a decision made by the previous Government and we are virtually only completing that original agreement; that is, to phase out the advertising on television and radio of the smoking of cigarettes and those  sorts  of things. 
Basically, as I see it the Bill is divided into 3 parts: Firstly, the banning of cigarette advertising; secondly, giving authority to the Broadcasting Control Board to recommend the licensing of television translator stations; and thirdly, to Ucense community television aerials. At present the translator television stations can be licensed only on technical grounds rather than on practical grounds. These would include areas of difficulty such as those caused by distance and blind spots, as have been mentioned by the honourable member for Stun. It is obvious that distance and isolation create great difficulties. After all, no commercial station will move into an area with a small viewing audience by choice. It prefers a large volume of viewers. 
It is the policy of the present Liberal-National Country Party Government to see that as many people as possible, including those residing in bUnd spots, receive reasonable television viewing and radio broadcasts. The Minister has indicated that he intends moving further amendments in Committee later this evening. These amendments will cover the problem that many smaller television stations are worried about. Under the recently introduced legislation it would have been possible for the larger stations to move in and to compete with the smaller stations. The result of such a move inevitably would have crippled the smaller stations and would deprive the local people of local content in their programs. I understand that those amendments will be moved at the Committee stage. I hope and trust that the spokesman for the Opposition will agree to those amendments. I am sure they will because after all the Opposition members were responsible originally for bringing about this legislation. 
The Bill allows licensing on a community of interest basis, irrespective of area or distance involved. The same community of interest basis applies regarding aerial systems, so avoiding the multiplication of individual aerials. Television may be classified as a form of luxury on the grounds that x years ago we did not have it. But today, in my mind, if it is good enough for the vast majority, at a cost to the taxpayers, then it is good enough to say that all those who are living a reasonable distance from an area of concentrated population should also be entitled to the privilege of having television viewing. We talk a lot of the rights of people on other issues so why not extend television coverage and broadcasting privileges to these people? 
The other major issue in this Bill that is somewhat contentious is the banning of cigarette and tobacco advertising on television and radio. At the outset I should like to say that I not not over happy with this legislation for a number of reasons. It discriminates against a section of the business community. There will be an adverse effect on the income of certain radio and television stations, particularly those in country areas. It sets a very dangerous precedent on the very principle of the rights of the individual person, organisation or company to advertise its respective goods that are readily available to the public. It sets a precedent for the banning of advertisements for all types of commodities that may or may not affect the general health of the people which, of course, naturally would include such things as alcohol, certain types of medicines and foodstuffs. One could well ask: What about the simple Aspro? Surely that does have an adverse effect on some people. Perhaps we ought to consider banning that, too, because if it is good enough to ban one of these types of commodities that are doing damage then it is good enough to ban the lot. I would not go along with this. 
Clause 4 of the Bill covers the question of accidental or incidental advertising, including reference to the non-receipt of payment for such advertising. To my mind this makes a complete farce of the whole issue. Charges that are laid down by certain sporting organisations differ and I do not think honourable members would dispute that. I refer to perhaps the greatest sporting arena in Australia, the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The Melbourne Cricket Ground authorities make a higher charge for one side of their oval than for the other side. Are we to ban the advertising of cigarettes on the more important side of the oval? I think the answer is obvious. 
I believe also that the Government is cornered with an agreement entered into by a previous government on the understanding that the advertising program will be phased out over the period from 1 September 1973 to 1 September 1 976. 1, and many other Government supporters, as responsible members of this Parliament have no alternative but to accept the legislation on this issue with a great deal of reluctance. However, I give notice that I would be very reluctant to extend any further advertising bans on similar grounds in the future. It is not my intention to go into all the ramifications of television and radio in speaking to the Bill before the House. 
I would like to make a brief reference to the question of radio and television licence fees. The honourable member for Banks asks: Why? I have been present in the chamber since the debate on this Bill resumed this afternoon. It is rather a strange thing that I can count only 5 members of the Opposition in the House now. Honourable members will be interested to know that that is the greatest number of members of the Opposition that has been in this House since this Bill was introduced.  (Quorum formed.)  I am grateful to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for calling attention to the state of the House. I will admit that the honourable member for Corio has been present during the whole of the debate on this Bill but he is the only member of the Opposition to do so. I was about to raise the question of television and radio licence fees. 
The House will recall that it was the previous Government which removed such fees. I am not arguing whether that decision was correct or not other than to say that it is a different thing to continue a licence fee as distinct from having to reintroduce it. It is my understandig that most of the records that were once held are no longer available. It think most honourable members will appreciate that money must be made available for the continuation of our national stations. The question we must ask is whether revenue should be derived in the form of licence fees or be drawn from Treasury in some other form of grant. It is my belief that the reintroduction of television licence fees is not any easy matter. The cost of administration alone in its implementation would soon eat up a lot of revenue derived from its reintroduction. I come down strongly on the side that we should leave well alone. That is my recommendation to the Government. 
I know that a number of other speakers from the Government side would like to make a contribution to this debate. I am prepared to cut short my remarks to allow them this opportunity. Remembering that whilst this legislation could have certain advantages in the long term, it would be better to depend on a straight out grant to make sure that our national stations, both radio and television, are retained. To my mind the best way of financing them is a direct subsidy from Treasury. I conclude as I commenced: I reluctantly support this Bill. 
I direct my question to either the Treasurer or the Minister for Primary Industry. It relates to the proposed income equalisation deposits. I refer to that portion of the Treasurer's statement in which he said that IEDs would commence with the income year 1975-76. 1 ask: Is the Minister in a position to indicate how this will be operated, particularly in the case of those taxpayers who have already furnished their income tax returns for the year 1975-76? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I refer to a statement by the Minister for Repatriation in which he said that repatriation beneficiaries would continue to receive repatriation treatment at no cost to the individual or at half cost for a family unit. I ask the Minister: If a married ex-serviceman in receipt of full repatriation benefits wishes to have more than Medibank standard coverage for his family, does the exserviceman sacrifice the privilege of full repatriation benefits without cost? I stress the last words, without cost. 
-We have arrived at a rather interesting situation. Although it is late on Thursday evening my Whip spoke to me a few minutes ago, and informed me that there were insufficient Opposition speakers and asked me whether, at very short notice, I would speak in this debate. I suppose if one stopped to analyse what has been said by Opposition speakers in recent days one would ask: Is it any wonder the Opposition is struggling to get supporters to back its amendment? The amendment is interesting because after all - 
A rather amusing point of order has been raised by the Opposition leader of the House. Surely he is well aware of the fact that the Opposition has limited numbers in this House. The point I was about to make concerned the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which criticises the Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The amendment refers to the Government pursuing a policy of unemployment and introducing additional tax in the form of Medibank. This is rather amusing because after all who introduced Medibank? It was not this Government that introduced Medibank. It was the present Opposition. Surely no one is foolish enough to believe that if people do not pay direct taxes- if they can get away with it- they do not have to pay indirect taxes. I have not had time to make a close study of the figures because I am speaking at very short notice. 
Another interesting point is that Opposition supporters have been somewhat critical of the Government assisting primary industry by the payment of subsidies. This is not something new coming from Opposition supporters. They have been doing this for quite some time. It they look at the Treasurer's speech they will find that sufficient funds are being allocated to primary industry. The fundamental principle of support for primary industry, in which we on our side of politics believe, is that an industry is assisted when it is in trouble, not when it is going along smoothly. The principle of stabilisation schemes is that growers, in many instances, contribute when times are good. They expect to get some of the money back, with perhaps a little more, depending on the circumstances, when times are bad. If honourable members look at the speech they will find that there is a very big drop in wool marketing assistance. Of course, that is a story on its own. I shall not go into it. That position has been brought about because of the increased price of wool. So, when we look at subsidies and hear all the groans and moans that come from Opposition members, it makes us wonder whether we should not make some mention of the matter. Every time we hear the word 'subsidy' mentioned in this House, most Opposition members who are prepared to speak up on the matter groan, as I have said, and carry on as though the Government were just handing out money to all and sundry. Of course, they have much criticism to offer. They will not believe in the principle, which I outlined a few minutes ago, of giving everybody a fair go. 
I remember that when the question of subsidies was brought up earlier this year one of the national farming leaders asked the question: 'What subsidies?' That is what he thought of the subsidies. I think I can answer his question, although Opposition members may not like what I have to say. For instance, the automobile industry, in which the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who is now at the table is so interested, as we all know is propped up by tariffs equal to something like $4,000 a year for every worker it employs. I am told that the subsidy for many university students is close to double that figure. The workers in the shipbuilding industrywe have heard plenty about that over recent weeks- show no shyness where subsidies are concerned. They want to keep something like $13,000 a year per employee. So, how can Opposition members turn around and criticise the socalled handouts to the primary industries? 
Of course, subsidies do not stop there. Every time a suburban housewife turns on a tap she is pouring out taxpayers' money, even if the water is poured on to the lawn. Every time a person travels in a train he uses some form of subsidy, as I heard one honourable member say the other day, in much the same way as a farmer uses a chaff cutter. There are many other services, such as the Commonwealth Employment Service. One could go on at great length when talking about assistance. If anyone wants to query the thought of subsidising communications to farmers, I think I can answer him with one very telling point: I remind him that one industry with which I have been closely associated, the wheat industry, subsidised the consumers of wheat for 20 years. When the price of wheat on the export market was high the grower made sure that there were ample supplies in this country at low rates to the consumers. So it is nonsense to talk about farmers' handouts. 
I realise that Opposition members will judge me by their own principles, or perhaps I should say the lack of them, and try to make out that I am opposed to helping these people. In fact, all I have done is to point out what actually exists. Even if subsidies in relation to communications in outlying areas are opposed by the Opposition, at least I can prove that we should not have to listen to any more of this nauseating rubbish about farmers being subsidised, or that the Party of which I am a member, the National Country Party, puts the screws on the Liberal Party to try to get a handout. 
There we have it at first hand from members of the Liberal Party. They do not believe that we put the screws on. But many Opposition members and also some of my friends in the Press Gallery are very quick to try to drive a wedge between these 2 great political organisations. When we are talking of subsidies for various people and organisations, I think of the word 'communications' again. I interpret that to mean such bodies as the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. I think we can agree that in an economic system characterised by protection, particularly to secondary industries, we can quite responsibly consider giving some assistance to these 2 commissions. Of course, Opposition members object to a subsidy for communications of all sorts. They might decide to be consistent just for once and drop all forms of tariffs. 
Of course, if honourable members opposite approached the trade unions with such a proposal, I think they would get the order of the boot. I would not blame the trade union movement for that. However, the rural sector would not be alarmed at such a proposal because farmers are used to being self-supporting. In fact, export industries are disadvantaged by subsidies and tariffs handed out to secondary industries. Anyone who has heard the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  talk on the subject would certainly appreciate this point. I throw out the challenge to members of the Australian Labor Party on this issue. If they want to attempt to obstruct the development of communications such as postal and telephone services, I am sure that the rural sector would be quite happy to hurl the challenge right back at the members of the Opposition. The challenge will be pretty simple because the position is as simple as this: If you drop one subsidy or tariff, you should drop the lot. In other words, if one tariff is cut out, all tariffs should be cut out. Frankly, I believe that the Labor Party would not have to go to that much trouble to get the boot from the trade union movement because we see this developing week by week. After losing their jobs and having watched the purchasing power disappear from their pay packets under the previous government, the workers are ready to put in the boot. Anyone can guess where the boot ought to go. 
On the other hand, the workers are beginning to see the benefits of the coalition Governments' policies of taking the Government's hand out of the workers' pockets and putting purchasing power into their pay packets. As a result, we are building up a very valuable store of mutual trust and respect with the communications unions which, ultimately, will bring benefit to the whole community. The benefits of this industrial harmony are already visible in the way that we have kept most postage and telephone charges at the same rate as applied a year or more ago. I think that everyone expected to see charges such as telephone and postal charges increase in accordance with the general increase in costs over the last 12 months. But this has not been the case. While achieving this reversal of industrial unrest and related rocketing charges, we have been able to press on with a massive expansion of programming designed to improve facilities and services offered to the public. I give as an illustration the decentralisation of mail sorting such as is in operation already at Geelong and Ballarat in Victoria. This has speeded up the mail movements in the region. It is only a matter of time before this service will spread to isolated areas right throughout the Commonwealth. Of course, this will improve the mail sorting facilities, give a better service to the members of the community and, as has been said by a number of the commissioners of the Australian Postal Commission and by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  give an overnight mail delivery service in most areas. 
The growth rate in these 2 commissions has increased considerably. We hope to see this growth rate increase further this year. It has been forecast that the growth rate in Telecom will be up by approximately 8 per cent, that the installation of telephone services will rise by over 5 per cent, that local telephone traffic will increase by 5.8 per cent and trunk line services by approximately 1 1 per cent. One could go on to expand. Having said that, I should point out that we have been doing this at a time when we have been able to reduce the percentage of labour involved. After all, this is what we have to do if we are ever to get out of this problem of inflation. If we can reduce the number of staff being employed by the commissions and at the same time give a better service, which I believe is now the trend, inside 12 months we will see a greatly improved position. If this occurs, it will represent an added contribution towards developing opposition to and enabling the reduction of the present inflation. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  used the word 'hypocrisy' in his comments. I think he may have used it more than once. I challenge the honourable member to answer this simple question: Who established the Telecommunications Commission and who first commented about the user-pay principle? 
I am prepared to listen. 
I am sorry. No doubt the honourable member will answer it during my comments. If the present Opposition was sincere when it was in office about the establishment of the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission, if it was sincere in its determination to have independence, what is wrong with the Commission raising its own funds? I answer the honourable member for Adelaide in that way. If he wishes to reply to that at some stage during this debate, that is a matter between you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and him. 
The Bill we are discussing this afternoon basically does 2 things. Firstly, it virtually gives authority to raise $200m on the loan market for capital works, and secondly to except such borrowings from the normal State and Territory taxes that would apply. I refer to such things as stamp duty. The reasons are quite simple. Last year the Commission expended something like $879m on capital works. This year it expects to expend something like $9 10m. Last year about half of this expenditure was found from loan funds and half from Treasury. There are 3 basic principles of the charter of Telecom. I think it would be well worth the honourable member for Adelaide's having a look at the document entitled  Service and Business Outlook for 1976-77, Telecom Australia, August 1976.  At page 4 the basic principles of the Commission are clearly set out. In a nutshell they are, firstly, to maintain the 3.7 million services to existing connections; secondly, to provide a capacity to service an estimated increase of 260 million telephone calls; and thirdly, to provide a service for an additional 356 000 applications. These aims are expected to be carried out without increasing the various telephone, charges. In some cases charges have been reduced. I remind the honourable member for Adelaide of these points. I cannot understand why he should move the amendment he has. 
The overall expansion of the Commission in the next financial year is expected to be in the vicinity of 8 per cent. I refer again to the booklet entitled  Service and Business Outlook for 1976-77.  At page 4 it reads in part: . Overall, output is planned to grow at 8 percent in order to meet forecast demand. Growth rates forecast for the major component of output are: 

<graphic href="100131197609144_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

That surely is one reason why there has to be some slight increase in the allocation of funds for capital expenditure. On page 5 of the same document reference is made to rural needs. Honourable members can read that at leisure if they so desire. Basically in the rural sphere the requirements are exceptionally high. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I agree with what you say but I am endeavouring to point out the reason why the Telecommunications Commission has to go on the loan market to get sufficient funds. I want to repeat that big demands are made throughout Australia for upgrading the telephone service. Surely that is one of the purposes for which the money is being raised. 
Again I can only partly agree with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Perhaps that is why I am not prepared to say I completely disagree with you. I am at a loss,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as to why you should rule this way. A few minutes ago I referred to the fact that various capital works are being carried out without any increase in the normal charges to subscribers. At the same time I went on to. say that in certain areas charges are being reduced. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that a certain amount of capital expenditure is raised through the services of the Commission and the balance is obtained from outside the Commission. As I mentioned a few minutes ago, something like $9 10m is required for the capital expenditure program. The Commission will provide from its internal sources approximately 54 per cent of the total proposed capital investment. The remainder of the money will be sought by the Commission under this legislation and also through the Treasury. Therefore I think I am quite in order in making some reference- a passing reference- to the reasons the Commission requires additional funds. I also want to refer to the cost of developing Telecommunications Commission works in rural areas. The costs are often in excess of the cost of works carried out in metropolitan areas. This is due to smallness of population in the respective areas, the lack of use of the works and the greater distances which are involved. That is why I wanted to make that reference. 
The recent announcement that there has been a reduction in the charge for new connections was brought about by the Government's decision to extend the free line from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. This decision has meant a good deal to potential subscribers, but it has also meant a bigger financial burden on the Commission itself. This is another reason why the Commission wants an increase in funds. Earlier in my speech I referred to the cost of providing services. There would be quite a number of potential subscribers who would be up for a lot of money if they had to meet the full cost of installing new lines. The extension of the free line provision from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres means a saving of some $1,280 for potential subscribers who come within this category. Of course, if the Commission's full costings were considered the saving would be much higher than that figure. So really the Commission is making a very great contribution in meeting the increased costs brought about by extending the free line from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. The Commission is virtually constructing the remaining portion of the line at about half the initial cost of construction. I say 'approximately' because the cost varies according to the type of country in which the line is installed. It is as well, I think, that I should point out these matters to the House. 
The legislation- you are quite right,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  is somewhat minor, but when one starts talking about raising $200m to some people this is very important particularly if you happen to be on the receiving end. 
I am sorry if I misinterpreted your remarks. 
What I am saying is that the raising of these funds to upgrade telephone services throughout Australia is terribly important particularly to those people who will benefit from these services. Under the previous Government's policy, if you want to bring it back to a government line, there would have been somewhere in the vicinity of 24 000 subscribers contributing to the upgrading of telephone lines. I know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you are not going to allow me to refer to a previous debate in this place, but only a few minutes ago a member of the Opposition was referring to an Aboriginal problem. Again I say in answer to the question he posedwithout going into very much detail- this is an area in which the Government is contributing greatly thus reducing the cost to these people. As I said, under the previous Government approximately 24 000 subscribers would have had to pay. Under a decision of the Commission, in co-operation with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and naturally the Government, that number has been reduced to something like 12 000. This of course, is terribly important. 
I now come back to your original suggestion,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and say that this Bill is somewhat limited and I will confine my remarks to the fact that under this legislation the Government proposes to raise $200m. I conclude- on the note on which I" started. I cannot understand why members of the Opposition are critical of this legislation. I appreciate that they are not opposing it. I suppose they cannot go too far, but I cannot understand why they are criticising it when in actual fact -they introduced legislation to establish the Telecommunications Commission arid the Postal Commission on the' basis that the 2 areas should be independent of each other. The best way to be independent is for one Commission to start to raise its own funds. That is why I support this legislation and I certainly commend it to the House. ' ' 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my remarks this evening have no relevance to the early portion of my contribution to the debate on the Appropriation Bill which I commenced last Thursday. This evening I wish to raise a different matter altogether. I received in the mail this morning a letter in the form of a petition, I suppose, from a number of constituents in Stawell in Victoria. The opening paragraphs state: 
We, the employees of North Western Woollen Mills Pty Ltd, Playford Street, Stawell, have over the last three years watched as our industry has been slowly eroded away by what seems to be a lack of political interest, conviction, and to us, a lax attitude in the handling of tariffs. 
We have, over this period of time, seen one of the most modern and efficient woollen textile plants in Australia come from a very busy 3-shift industry employing 260 people, to its present state of a very slack 2 -shift enterprise, struggling to remain productive with 156 employees. 
The question I raise is this: Why has the number of employees been reduced during the last 3 years from 260 to 156 people? To my mind, the broad answers are very simple. Firstly, there was the Labor Party's decision when it was in government to reduce tariffs, and that statement has been verified as late as this afternoon by the admission of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The second answer is Australia's growing cost structure, and the third is the lack of incentive, confidence and the will to produce. All 3 answers are the result of the Labor Government's earlier decision, with the third being carried on by the Labor Party Opposition. 
Of course, increased costs are forcing people off the purchasing market. Increased costs are forcing manufacturing industries into curbing production and are forcing both manufacturing industry and primary industry into insolvency. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  once said: 'Under my Government, wages have gone up more than the cost of living. ' But what of the other sections of the community, and I refer to retired people, pensioners and producers? After all, they are all consumers. 
As another illustration, I refer to the stevedoring industry. With constant strikes and demands for increased awards, costs for anybody shipping goods overseas now are out of all proportion. Today the hourly wage of waterside workers has risen since 1 973 by something like 90 per cent to over $13 an hour. Idle time levies have risen from $ 1 an hour to $4 an hour. Is it any wonder that people are being forced out of industry when opportunities and work such as that are available? I wonder sometimes why some of the unemployed are not more forceful in attempting to get a job on the water front. I am informed that the cost of loading a bale of wool today is in the vicinity of $7.70, compared with $2.95 in 1973. That is not a very long period of time. Loose cargo, which includes grain, has jumped from $18.70 a tonne to $48.10 a tonne, but people wonder why costs continue to rise. Those are the reasons why I believe that the Stawell woollen mills have fewer employees now than they did in 1973. 
I do not wish to bash employees' awards because I agree that the pay packet of the worker should have as much purchasing power as possible. That is the essence of the principle of bringing justice to everyone, it matters not whether he is a wage earner, a business man or a farmer. Everyone everywhere should receive a fair share of this nation's wealth, but when one considers figures such as those I have just quoted for the stevedoring industry, as well as figures relating to other industries, one realises that they are not sharing in the wealth. Maintaining the real value of wages is part of the present Government's policy. Government Parties have a broad national outlook, unlike that of the present Opposition, which is openly sectional. I appeal to Opposition members to consider some of those aspects when they endeavour to sap the confidence of the people of Australia. Time and time again the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and other prominent senior members of the Cabinet have endeavoured to get confidence back into the people of Australia  so that a situation can be achieved where the economy is running soundly and where everybody, irrespective of who they are, can share in the national wealth. That is why I support the Budget introduced some 4 weeks ago by the Treasurer. I might add that never before have I heard so many favourable comments following the introduction of a Budget. People are realising the importance of securing confidence, but when we hear speakers from the Opposition, from the Leader of the Opposition down, it is no wonder that people are losing that confidence. For those reasons,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I support the Budget. 
I find myself in a most invidious position this evening, speaking as a member of the National Country Party and defending a statement by a Liberal Prime Minister against,' firstly, a State Liberal member and, secondly, a State Liberal Minister. However, when one reads and hears such comments as I have heard this evening and when statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are referred to as a confidence trick, I believe it is time, irrespective of what party the person making the statements belongs to, to correct that situation. Such statements, to my mind, are not worthy of a member of the Parliament. The first statement to which I shall refer is in an article in the Melbourne  Herald  of this evening headed ' "No" to Drought Aid Tipped'. It was written by  Mr James  Harrison. It states: 
Last Tuesday the Federal Government offered to pick up 90 per cent of the bill for approved drought relief after ViC.toria had spent its 'base amount' of $3.5m . . . 
That is a misleading statement which ought to be qualified. The article should read 'that the Federal Government offered to pick up 100 per cent of the bill over and above the $3.5 '. This evening I received a telephone call from one of my constituents informing me that a State member of Parliament was quoted in a local newspaper as saying that the Commonwealth offer of drought relief was a confidence trick and that claims of money from the Commonwealth for this purpose were untrue. I say that the statements of the State member of Parliament are untrue. I am not too sure where he secured his information from. If he secured it from a question asked in this House last Thursday, I will quote part of the question. After referring to an agreement between the State and the Commonwealth, that is an agreement which is in existence at the present time and has been in existence for quite some time, the Prime Minister said that the State would provide $3.5m before calling on the Commonwealth. The Prime Minister reminded the House on that occasion that in the years between 1974 and 1976 the Commonwealth spent about $15m or $16m whilst Victoria naturally would not have spent any more than $3. 5m. In answer to a question on drought assistance from the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  the Prime Minister said: 
If some States are dissatisfied with the arrangement that has lasted for some time- that is, the States meeting the base amount and the Commonwealth picking up all expenditure beyond that- I would be very happy, following discussion with the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry this morning, to offer the States concerned matching expenditure on a dollar for dollar basis which would be payable from the beginning of a disaster right through to the end, no matter what the expenditure might be. 
The honourable member for Mallee says that you cannot have it both ways. That is correct. I agree with that entirely. I regret having to make such a statement but I believe that the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have made a genuine attempt to assist in this critical period of disaster and that exaggerated and untrue statements should be corrected. The article in the Melbourne  Herald  of this evening went on to suggest: . . . acceptance of the second federal offerthat is, the one I have just read out- . . . would mean the State would be 'locked in' to paying half the bill for any national disaster in the next 9 months. 
This is a article which appears in this evening's  Herald  at which was written by  Mr James  Harrison. The article continues: 
A meeting of Treasury, Agriculture Department and rural finance and settlement commission officers has been called to consider the federal offers. 
I understand that there has been no report of it. The article continues: 
But Government sources said both were likely to rejected. 
Is this a case of the State endeavouring to make some political capital out of a disaster? That is the part that I object to strongly. I urge those people who are making such statements to refrain from doing so. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry who no doubt is well aware of the very severe drought in certain parts of southern Australia. No doubt he is well aware also of the deteriorating condition of the regular type of stock food. I ask: Is the Minister conscious of the potential disaster facing many millions of head of livestock between now and autumn of next year? In view of the importance of retaining essential good breeding stock, has the Minister considered subsidising grain? If so, what terms and conditions would the Government lay down so that the proposal could be implemented? 
-After listening to the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  I am reminded of an occasion a few years ago when a candidate stood for election to an upper House and his policy was to do away with that section of the Parliament. I believe that this is a hypocritical type of argument which the Australian Labor Party continues to advance. It is a case of saying: 'If we cannot get our way, we will make sure that the system is altered '. 
Of course the Australian people made up their minds on this question on 13 December last. I do not wish to spend too much of my time in answering the remarks of the previous speaker or, for that matter, of any of the other Opposition speakers. I will do so only if I have time after completing the other remarks that I wish to make. 
This evening I want to speak for a few minutes on the estimates of the Parliament. Like a few other members in this place, I have been here for a fair while and I have seen many changes. Of course, some have been good and some not so good. I suppose that when one looks at the present Opposition one could say that maybe that is part of the good. When I look around and count honourable members opposite I note that only six or seven of them were here when I first entered the Parliament. 
If I cannot count beyond seven, no doubt after the next election I will not need to count to seven because there will be very few of those members left. 
The aspect to which I wish to refer concerns the changes that have taken place since I first entered the Parliament. The sitting hours and the sitting days are illustrations of this. Over the years we have seen many changes. I can recall the time when Parliament used to sit ungodly hours, right through till daylight the next morning. Possibly I can give credit to the present Opposition for the present situation. When it was in government, it did away with extended sitting hours and now the Parliament rises at a reasonable hour. When I say 'a reasonable hour' I mean 1 1 o'clock at night. Honourable members will be aware that many people outside the Parliament do not seem to appreciate the fact that the average member of Parliament arrives in this place around 8.30 a.m. or 9 a.m. and certainly does not leave here- unless he goes without leave- before 1 1 p.m. I have seen changes in the pattern of sitting days from time to time. We used to sit on Mondays and Fridays. But it is obvious to me that only one pattern of sitting days will operate successfully over a period of time, and that is for us to sit on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. I am mindful, of course, that members have responsibilities in their electorates and that they must have an occasional week off to attend to those responsibilities. 
It is rather interesting to note the views of the people who visit the place in the galleries. In the last 12 months or so, because of better communications there has been a large increase in the number of visitors to this place. On checking a few minutes ago I found that in 1974 there were about 35 328 visitors to this place, and a year later that figure had jumped to 62 272 visitors. It is rather interesting to hear their comments on the Parliament. Not all these comments are complimentary. I believe that their comments would not have been complimentary if they had had the opportunity to voice their opinion on the sittings of last Thursday. I would like to congratulate the  Speaker  on trying to bring decorum back into this House- something that has been missing in recent years. I wish him well and I will give him all the support I possibly can. 
He might have great problems on one side of the House; nevertheless, we have to support him wherever we possibly can. I compliment him, and I compliment the  Chairman  of Committees who, I believe, did a magnificent job under the conditions prevailing last Thursday. I also compliment the  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees. Last week we had a situation in which there were 18 or 19 divisions in one day. This, to my mind is a complete waste of valuable time when one considers that it takes 9 or 10 minutes to conduct a division, it is pretty easy to see that this Parliament wasted literally  2]A  hours of very valuable time last Thursday. I do not blame the people who complained on that occasion. They came to see the Parliament in operation; but what did they see? They saw members of the Opposition preventing the Government from trying to govern. 
Yes, it was frustrating. The work load of individual members on both sides of the Parliament, whether they be back benchers or Ministers, has increased considerably over recent years. If this work load continues to increase, I believe that it will be very difficult for any government, whatever its political colour may be, to govern effectively. It appears to me that there are 2 great problems. One has been brought about by lack of time and the other by overwork. There are 2 things that we can do to try to overcome our difficulties. We have had the staff in our electorate offices increased. That, of course, has been absolutely necessary because of the increased workload. The quantity of mail being received is literally doubling every year. It is only a matter of time before members of Parliament will not be able to keep up with it. 
If we could only prevent the wasting of time on divisions the situation would be improved considerably. I have heard it said that any improvement is going to be costly. What could be more costly than having the Parliament wasting  Vh  hours in a single day dividing on this, that and the other. I suggest that we should look very closely at the situation in other Parliaments throughout the world- there are plenty of them to examine- and bring in an electronic device for casting a vote. We should be looking in particular at a system of casting votes which takes 2 minutes rather than 10 minutes. That could be done very easily. All that we would have to have is an electronic device that has a key and various digits for indicating that one is voting for or against a proposition or is refraining from voting. That could be done very simply indeed. 
If the member of the Opposition who interjected with a question like that cannot trust his colleagues it is his concern. I have no worries about honourable members on this side of the chamber. The communications system inside this Parliament has not kept pace with the communications system outside of it. The message is getting through to the people per medium of television and so on about some of the things that are going on- so much so that the people are in turn becoming a little more keener to find out what is going on in relation to legislation. That is one of the reasons why our workload has increased. I am not complaining about that. It can be rightly said that if one cannot keep up with one's work one should get out and let someone else do the job. But I am not speaking as an individual member of Parliament; I am speaking for the whole of the Parliament. Any honourable member who does not believe that the workload has increased and is getting beyond him is in turn not doing the job. The workload of the members of the Ministry immediately comes to mind. I am reminded of the workload of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who is sitting at the table. As ordinary back bench members of Parliament find great difficulty in keeping up with the workload, I often wonder how a Minister keeps up with it. I suppose it is not unusual for Ministers to work 12, 14, 16 or even 18 hours a day up to 7 days a week trying to keep up with their work and trying to perform their duties. Is that good for the legislative process? I believe that members of Parliament are sent to this place basically to legislate in the interests of the constituents that they represent. We are not sent here as ombudsmen, although that appears to be the thinking of some people. It is about time we had a very close look at this matter with the idea of trying to improve the situation. 
I come back to the point on which I started. It is a case either of improving the situation by increasing the size of staff or, if honourable members want to take it further and say that one cannot be responsible for one's staff, of this Parliament itself sooner or later having to be increased numerically. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  say late this afternoon that it is about time we got on with the job of building a new Parliament House. I assure anybody who thinks that I or any other honourable member wants a new Parliament House for his own convenience that not many of us will see a new Parliament House as a member of Parliament because it will take many years to plan and construct let alone become operative. I would have liked to have made a comment about the remarks made by the Opposition concerning the Governor-General, but time will not allow me to do so. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It was not my intention at all to speak on the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services until the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les 
Johnson) tried, in my mind and in the minds of many members on this side of the Parliament, to confuse the people in such a way, no doubt, as to convince them that the Labor Party should not be in Opposition and that it was really entitled to more representation in this House. However, there are one or two things that the honourable member for Hughes was inclined to overlook. Very early in his address he made some reference  to the principle  of one vote one value. Then he went on to talk about how the Liberal Party got so many votes, and how it got a bigger proportion of the seats than it was entitled to as compared with the Labor Party. 
That is a lot of claptrap. The honourable member for Hughes knows it and the House knows it. But it is good propaganda as far as the honourable member for Hughes and some of his colleagues are concerned. What he did not mention is that the National Country Party and the Liberal Party did not contest every seat in Australia as did the Australian Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party got every possible vote by contesting every seat in Australia, whereas the Liberal Party and the National Country Party contested only a limited number of seats. No doubt if the National Country Party had contested as many seats as did the Labor Party it only stands to reason that its vote- I think he said 800 000 votes- would naturally be increased. The reason why the National Country Party does not contest every seat is simply that it works very closely with the Liberal Party. No doubt those 2 parties do not want to split their forces. Consequently in adding up the figures, the honourable member for Hughes should add together the votes polled by the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. When one talks of one vote one value that exercise has the result of sounding good, but what does the principle of one vote one value really mean? 
The honourable member for Lang says it means that you cannot count the sheep. The honourable member raises a very important point. 1 invite him to go out to some of the country electorates and talk in that same vein. I invite the honourable member of Hughes to go out to some of the country electorates and talk in a vein similar to that in which he was talking tonight. The simple fact is that he just does not appreciate that there are more problems in country electorates than there are even around Sydney. I think that the honourable members should remember that there are 2 ways in which you can go about achieving fair representation. I think it is well that we should give every consideration to the individual constituent. The honourable member for Hughes forgets that angle. I do not know the number of voters in his electorate; I have not bothered to go into the figures. Evidently he has gone to a lot of trouble to find out that sort of information to pass on to the Committee this evening. No doubt his electorate would comprise an area of only a few square miles, and I suppose it would be possible for every one of his constituents to telephone him and pay only the local call fee. 
I am wrong. Evidently a few of his constituents have to pay the trunk call fee, but only a very small percentage of them would have to do that to ring his office, unless it is located outside the electorate. It may be that his office is not located within the electorate; I do not know. In many country electorates, I suppose the reverse is the situation. Very few constituents can ring their local federal member- it does not matter whether he belongs to the Liberal, Labor or National Country Party- for the local call fee. Is that equal representation? Is that fair? Does that give constituents in country electorates the same opportunity as constituents in metropolitan areas? look at the size of the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly). 
I recall not so long ago the then Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr Daly,  making a decision to wipe out a few polling booths. He decided to close any polling booth at which fewer than 100 people voted. I remember the honourable member for Wakefield, who at that time was sitting in Opposition, making the suggestion that the Minister's decision would disfranchise the people of Oodnadatta. You say: 'Oh well, the Minister at the time,  Mr Daly,  suggested that they cast a postal vote'. That shows how knowledgeable the then Minister was, because the simple fact is that Oodnadatta was located in such a situation that it was impossible for a constituent in the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield to cast his vote before polling day, because once nominations had closed all of those individuals living in and around Oodnadatta would have to make an application for a postal vote, send it off to the Returning officer, get the postal voting form back, and then return that to the Electoral Officer. That is the type of representation that honourable members such as the honourable member for Hughes would like to present to the Parliament. 
As far as personal visits to the electoral office are concerned, I suppose it would be fair to say that the constituents of most members of the Labor Party who talk in a vein similar to that of the honourable member for Hughes can jump on a tram or train and be at the electoral office in a matter of a few minutes. My electorate is far from being one of the biggest electorates in Australia but I have constituents living over 200 miles from the electorate office. No doubt the member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  and the member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  have electors even further away. The member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  are very quiet in this debate because they no doubt have similar thoughts to mine. They are not speaking because they know that they would be overridden by the majority of members of their Party. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)There  is no point of order. The honourable member for Grey was mentioned. He is right behind the honourable member. 
I think the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  has the answer: Perhaps carrots are needed. I can see the honourable member for Grey sitting there now. I do not know why, but he is not on the Speaker's list and no doubt he does not intend to say anything. I raise this question because I believe that the people outside this place must know the true situation and not a very distorted one introduced by the member for Hughes. The honourable member for Hughes is a former Minister and ought to know better. He is not a bad sort of fellow but when it comes to electoral matters, he has very little sympathy for anybody other than those living in the metropolitan area. I recall that not so very long ago the Labor Party, when in government, tried its utmost to alter the Electoral Act to such a form that there would have been the biggest gerrymander that we have ever seen in the Parliament in Canberra. The Opposition would like to reduce the tolerance from 20 per cent down to 10 per cent. This is rather interesting because the Opposition would like to see this 10 per cent tolerance applied in such a fashion that country electorates like Grey, Wakefield, Maranoa and Riverina would be 10 per cent above the quota because the trend of the population is away from them. This is brought out by the concentration - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many members are there on the (a) Australian Telecommunications Commission, (b) Australian Postal Commission, (c) Australian Broadcasting Commission and (d) Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
Who are the respective (a) chairman and (b) members. 
When was each appointed, what is the term of the appointment and which of the appointments are full-time. 
What remuneration does each chairman or member receive. 
-In answer to the honourable member ibr Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I must say that I sympathise with him on the question of overcharging. However, I would remind him that this is one of the problems that has to be faced with any automatic device. It is subject to fault. Like the honourable member, I have had numerous complaints about this matter, but I am inclined to liken it to a motor car. When it is faulty it invariable slows down or even stops. It does not speed up, or only very rarely. This evening I want to speak on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions. No nation can operate efficiently or develop high standards in commerce, industry or welfare without a speedy and efficient communications system. Australia relies heavily on the competence of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions. 
The system having been established, the next step is to keep the service as cheap as possible. Unfortunately, this coalition Government inherited raging inflation. Postal and telephone charges were already high, with a lot of talk in the air before we took office last December of more rises. Yet in the short space of less than 12 months the Government has, in my opinion, given birth to some important economies in communications. Commerce and industry have benefited by cheaper bulk postage rates, country people have been helped by cheaper mail boxes and private postal bags, and the installation of free telephone lines has been extended from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres for subscribers being connected for the first time to automatic exchanges. This will mean a saving of up to $1,280 for many subscribers. I think it is important to note that in the past when subscribers had to make a contribution it was on the basis of $160 per half-kilometre or part thereof. I should also point out that as far as the Commission is concerned, this is a very nominal charge, particularly in these times of high and increasing prices. Although this extension is a great breakthrough for people residing in the outback areas, there is still a lot to be done to help those people who are beyond the 12 kilometre limit. However, the provision has brought about a big reduction in the number of subscribers who will have to make a contribution. 
As a result of some of the items I have just mentioned it will be apparent that, unlike Labor when it was in office, the coalition Government's policy is to help people in all walks of life. The Government wants to end that vicious discrimination which Labor inflicted on country people and begin to heal the breach between city and country people which was fostered by the Labor Party in its 3 years of office. 
-They certainly are vicious. I come now to the question of who should pay for community services such as communications. I am most emphatic that the user-pays principle introduced by Labor is a crime against some people. If followed through to its logical conclusion, it would mean charging a letter postage rate of 50c or even 55c in some cases, if one considered an area at the back of Bourke. High charges would operate and, at the same time, no doubt a fairly poor service would be provided because of isolation. It has always been my policy and that of the Party to which I belong to try to reduce the burden on trunk line users. Why does a business man living 100 or 200 miles from the city have to pay more for a telephone call to transact some of his business than his opposition residing in that city? Why does he have to pay more even to contact his local member of Parliament? The answer is that that is the penalty he must pay for living away from a highly populated area. Naturally, the cost of the service is more expensive or, if one preferred it, one could say that it is less profitable to the Telecommunications Commission. 
The Government's policy is to amend this injustice as soon as it possibly can, and that raises the question of subsidies. After listening to a number of speeches made in this chamber over recent weeks, I believe that the people of Australia are starting to realise that there are many forms of subsidy and that many thousands of people are getting indirect forms of assistance which in some instances could be classed as a form of subsidy. I exclude the primary producer, who has been on the receiving end of such accusations for a long time. This is why I claim that the people who reside outside a metropolitan area are entitled to postal and telephone services equal to those provided for people living in a metropolitan area. The introduction of decentralised mail sorting centres is now starting to give that service to the people. Once completely in existence, the mail deliveries will be more or less equal throughout a State. I was interested to read a statement put out recently by a State manager of Australia Post,  Mr Page,  in which he said: 
Mail posted at country places (Monday-Friday) by the local mall closing time will receive: next working day delivery in Melbourne city and suburbs next working day delivery at all destinations in the same mail centre area, or an adjoining mail centre area second working day delivery at all other Victorian destinations and interstate capital cities. 
This is a wonderful break through for many people residing outside metropolitan areas and, no doubt, for those people who are interested in posting mail in the metropolitan areas to country destinations. Of course, it will cost more to deliver letters to a destination some 200 miles or 300 miles from the point of postage than it costs to deliver them just over the road or around the corner in the metropolitan areas. But if we want to maintain equal service to all people, this is one way that service can be given without implementing the principle of user pays. 
I think that we can agree that in an economic system characterised by protection, particularly to secondary industry, we can quite responsibly consider some assistance for the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian 
Postal Commission. If members of the Opposition disagree with this principle, let them be consistent and remove all types of protection, be they subsidies, tariffs or whatever. Overall, the growth rate in the Telecommunications Commission this year is expected to be in the vicinity of 8 per cent. Telephone services are expected to rise by about S. 1 per cent, local telephone traffic by about 5.8 per cent, trunk traffic by 1 1 per cent, the telex network by 14 per cent and the DATEL services should jump by a mighty 6 1 per cent. 
A feature of the massive expansion- and the reason we have been able to introduce these new measures and give better service- is the control of labour costs. Instead of continuing the staff growth rate of 3 per cent as we have seen in the past few years it is our intention to cut it to less than half of one per cent this year. Yet postal delivery points will increase by about 150 000. There will be 15 new post offices established and contraction on 39 new postal buildings will be started this year. Certainly, deliveries will be upgraded. Honourable members can see that in the short time we have been in office we have already moved the area of postal and telephone services into the 20th century and away from the old smoke signal stanards of Labor's 3 dark years of irresponsibility and incompetence. I am reminded of an old cliche that is well know to most of us. As a child I was always told, 'If you have a problem and want some information ask a policeman and he will guide you'. So far as I am concerned, I have now reached the stage now where I can say: 'If you want information regarding Commonwealth matters the right place to go is to the Post Office'. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What rates will repatriation beneficiaries who are entitled to medical treatment pay for insurance as (a) a single and (b) a married man for (i) medibank standard and (ii) medibank private. 
If a beneficiary is married, can his wife take out the insurance at single rates. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I draw his attention to the earlier announcement by the Treasurer regarding income equalisation deposits. I ask: Is the Minister in a position to indicate to the House why the proposed legislation has not been introduced? Are there any specific reasons for the delay and will the scheme still apply to the year 1975-76? If so, will the Minister indicate the possible programming of the legislation so that those who are desirous of using income equalisation deposits will be able to plan accordingly? 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  It appears to me that 2 obvious issues arise from his speech. Although he perhaps did not spell it out in so many words, he implied that the Australian Broadcasting Commission had the opportunity to lean to the left or to the right in its programs. He made it fairly clear to me, at any rate, that he thought that it had the role of leaning to the left. Many people outside this place agree with that point of* view. In many instances people believe that the ABC leans too far to the left. 
The honourable member also made some reference in his opening remarks to the effect that this legislation was being hastily dealt with in the Parliament. I remind the former Minister for the Media, who should understand, that, at the end of this calendar year, only 3 commissioners will be left on the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. That in itself is a good reason why we should try to get this legislation dealt with before this session of Parliament finishes. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Government can then make appointments to allow the Board to carry on its role. However, I shall deal with those aspects of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board later in my remarks. 
It must be remembered that the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 [No. 2] is the first of a number of measures which will be introduced as a result of the Green report which was tabled in the House recently. So, it is true to say that this is transitional legislation. It is also true to say that after further studies have been undertaken by the Government other legislation will be forthcoming. I remind the House and those people outside who may be interested that just because something appears in a report does not necessarily mean that the Government will automatically accept it. A report is a guide to a government. I am afraid that many people who are throwing criticisms at the report do not know what the Government intends to do about it. Many people who are criticising the legislation believe it to be as recommended in the Green report. In the legislation which is before the House now, we see some criticism of this matter. This, of course, is no surprise. I have been in this place long enough to realise that when new legislation is introduced there is always someone who does not like it and there are always some people who like what is proposed but who suggest that it could be improved somewhere, somehow. 
I have endeavoured to speak to as many people as I possibly could on this subject over recent weeks. These people have ranged from the listening and viewing public to radio and television station managers, station executives and a number of interested organisations, including commercial and national as well as public radio. Their views have certainly been wide ranging. There is no doubt that the overwhelming view is that these people believe basically that the legislation is desirable. But many have certain reservations about this Bill. I am not surprised at that. One point appears fairly clear, however; that is, that people want the legislation to proceed. I hope the honourable member for Maribyrnong notes that fact. People want this legislation. They are mindful that this is only interim legislation in one sense and that it can be updated in the very near future. The legislation is to be amended to change the number of commissions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission from the original nine as was put forward in this House to a minimum of nine and a maximum of eleven. To my mind that is quite acceptable. I hope that members opposite will note that proposal. The commissioners will include representatives from every State. For the first time 2 commissioners must be women. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission Staffs Association has already outlined its concern at the possible loss of its representative from the Commission. This type of protest is very interesting because this concern betrays an awareness that the appointment lacked merit from the outset. I say quite categorically, despite all the comments which have been made, that at no time can anyone prove that the Minister has said that the ABC Staffs Association representative will be removed. That has never been stated. After all, it is up to the Minister to make these decisions. The Government has never said that it would refuse to appoint a staff member. 
So, when looking for the cause of the Association's concern, one must cast around for reasons. We do not have to look very far. Marius 
Webb was elected by an insignificant vote. The Staffs Association, for reasons of its own, seems anxious to have a representative on the ABC but the members of the staff- that is the rank and file of Staffs Association- refuse to share the enthusiasm of their Association. They were so unimpressed with the idea or perhaps with the candidates- I am not too sure which, but possibly it could be both- that less than half the members cast a vote. About 7S00 members were eligible to vote but the successful candidate, Marius Webb, won with a mere 1200 votes. It is obvious that the fact that over 50 per cent of the staff did not bother to vote spells a lack of interest and no doubt many of them would be happy to accept an appointment by the Minister, the Government or some other organisation in a position to do so. 
Everyone in this community must accept his share of responsibility for economic recovery, for the maintenance of democracy and for unity in the Australian community. The ABC Staff Association is no exception to this rule. It as much as any other component of this nation must shoulder its responsibilities towards the whole community. I am certainly not opposing worker representation- we already have union officials on the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commissionbut I am most emphatic that the ABC Staff Association must go right back to the beginning and work out an approach which at least meets with the approval of its own members. That seems to me to be a logical starting point. When the members complain that they might lose their representative they are really saying: 'We realise that we have no support or mandate from the majority of our members, we realise that we were wrong from the beginning, but we want this just the same.' 
The ABC is a most important part of the nation's mass media, and the mass media play a most important part in the lives of the Australian people. The ABC deserves more respectful treatment and more depth of thought than some childish fancy for office for reasons that are less than clear and have failed to convince even their own members. Of course, honourable members know and I know that representation depends on merit. We also know that this is the point that is scaring the daylights out of some of the staff members of the Association. A point that comes out of these considerations is that the Government is not attempting to place limitations on representation. For instance, it is insisting that at least 2 women be appointed to the Commission, but there is no limitation on the number of women who will take their place on the Commission. 
As far as the number of men is concerned, I will be coming to that. If they are the most suitable people, women may occupy every position on the Commission because the Government has not limited their number. The interesting thing is that the Government has not - stipulated that there shall be men appointed. . 
For the simple reason that the previous Government could see its way clear to appoint only  one.  We want to increase that by 100 per cent. However, this is a most interesting situation and it appears from the interjections that it is disturbing some people. In compiling his report  Mr Green  received and considered 600 submissions. He reported to the Minister that many of these submissions were of an exceptionally high standard. I think we should bear this very much in mind before being carried away by ideas and suggestions promoted by sectional interests with very superficial attitudes and understanding. Presumably the people concerned with the creation of the new Commission are taking fright at recommendations such as clause 356 of the Green report. That clause points out that the current Commission of nine as failed to provide the breadth and spectrum of knowledge that its expansion in 1967 was designed to achieve. One can twist this around any way one likes, but the fact is that the appointment of a staff representative has failed to raise the intellectual standard of the Commission. This fact was one of the earliest observations made in the Press. In fact it was forecast at the time of the appointment. On 10 October 1975, when reporting the election of  Mr Marius  Webb to the Commission,  Mr Laurie  Oakes of the Melbourne  Sun  wrote that it was a good result for rock and roll. That is a rather interesting note. 
When one reads on and comes to clause 362 of the Green report one sees the real truth spelt out about staff appointments. The report says quite clearly that trade union representation is desirable. I do not think there is any objection to that. The Government goes along with it. The report also doubts that ABC employees' organisations are able to supply persons of the calibre needed to fill these important positions. I hope that the Opposition will note that. In other words, after studying 600 high quality submissions, the recommendation is that appointments should be as representative as possible, but not at the cost of merit. That is a very important point. No one could argue with such sound commonsense recommendations. I would also like to point out the balance in such appointments as recommended in the Green report. It refers to trade union representation on Telecom and the Postal Commission. It points out that those trade union appointments are balanced by appointments from management- something which has not happened within the ABC. The report also makes the interesting point that the trade union appointments to those 2 commissions are made from trade union leadership, not from the employees of either commission. 
The Green report devotes special mention to the need to avoid 'bunching up' of appointments to the ABC. Reference to this matter can be found in clause 363. This is a most interesting observation. It underlines the common sense running through this report and the sanity of its approach to matters of importance. The report recommends continuity of membership which should be achieved by spacing out retirements so that as few as possible commissioners retire at any one time. This would ensure that whenever a commissioner is replaced, the optimum number of experienced commissioners remain to guide the commission until the new commissioner becomes familiar with his responsibilities. It is interesting to note that of the present commissioners two are due to retire in September 1977, both from New South Wales, one in January 1978 from Queensland, one in July 1 978 from Victoria, two in October 1978 from Western Australia and New South Wales, one in February 1979 from New South Wales and one in July 1 979 from Victoria. 
As honourable members can see under this legislation it will be possible for the Government to appoint a further 3 commissioners, because at the present time there is one vacancy. If they fulfil their normal 5 years term, they would be appointed until 1982. Naturally, one would have to come from Tasmania and one from South Australia. It is obvious to me that this is one of the problems which the Minister will have to face. As I have said, 4 commissioners from New South Wales will have retired by February 1979. The Minister will have a major problem in altering the appointments so that the commissoners will retire at different times. Clause 9 of the Bill states that the commissioners will hold office for up to 5 years but are eligible for re-appointment. I trust that before long the Minister will be able to work out a way in which appointments can be made so that not more than one or two, or a maximum of three, will retire at the one time. A number of amendments have been foreshadowed by the Minister. No doubt they will improve the implementation of the legislation. The alterations are not major ones but they are important and they will clear the air for a lot of people. 
Other honourable members wish to speak in this debate, including the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  Most people in this Parliament will realise that he is a man with a great deal of experience. I want to compliment him, not on the contribution which he will make in his speech this afternoon, but on the many hours of work which he has contributed to the Government in relation to this matter. I am sure that without his experience this Bill would not be as good as it is today. I am sure that anyone who has followed the activities of the honourable member for Bowman in this place will appreciate his great contribution. I am sure too that, whilst this may not be immediately obvious to the people outside this place, over a period of time they certainly will appreciate what he has done to assist the industry as a whole. As I said, this may not be obvious in the reading of the Bill or within the next few days or months, but given time I am sure all honourable members will agree with me. I want to conclude by again saying to the Parliament that people will judge this legislation over a period of time. The Minister has quite definitely informed the Parliament that he intends to bring in further legislation next year after the Government has had ample time to study the Green report. With those few remarks, I commend the Bill to the House. 
I have been somewhat surprised to hear the various comments made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and, latterly, by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I am absolutely staggered at the thought that the honourable member for Scullin is querying the appointment of 2 women to the Australian Broadcasting Commission under the provisions of clause 9 of this Bill 
It is not altogether misrepresentation because, after all, if honourable members recall, the honourable member for Scullin did interject when I was speaking on this very subject yesterday. The reason I query this is that it would appear to me that members of the Opposition want to have it both ways: they do not want to upset the women of Australia but they do not want to see provisions concerning their representation on the Commission included in the BUI. In the form of an interjection yesterday the honourable member for Scullin said: 'At least how many men?' My reply on that occasion was that the representation could be such that there would be no men if we could find sufficient suitable women for the position. So I am a little puzzled as to just where the Opposition stands on the appointment of women members to the Commission. I compliment the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Government for making absolutely certain that there will be at least 2 women members on the Commission. 
I want now to refer to another matter mentioned by the honourable member for Maribyrnong in his speech during the second reading debate on this Bill. At page 33 1 1 of  Hansard  he is recorded as having said: 
. when the vacancy occurred I was not able to find someone from Tasmania at the time . . . 
It seems very strange to me that the Minister for the Media of the day could not find a suitable person in all of Tasmania. Perhaps he might care to elaborate on this. After all, m some ways it does not matter who is appointed. But this legislation points out very clearly that at least one member shall be appointed from each State. I should have thought that irrespective of whether it had to be a woman or a man he would have been able to find at least one from Tasmania. 
A great deal of comment has been made, both during the second reading debate yesterday and the debate in the Committee stage today, in relation to a certain appointment, that being the appointment of a staff member. I do not want to harp on this particular issue; I think I said enough about it yesterday. Perhaps the Minister might care to make a comment at the conclusion of the Committee stage in relation to clause 9 as it relates to the actual position of this staff member, commonly known as Marius Webb. As I said yesterday and as I repeat today, at no stage has the Minister said that this man will be removed from office. 
As the Minister said, it is speculation. People have simply supposed that because the legislation is being altered he is the man that is to go. This proves to me that a certain amount of guilt is attached to this appointment. In other words, the Opposition believes that its man is not sufficiently capable of being able to hold the position, so logically he will be the one to go. I am not saying that that is the case. Members of the Opposition are saying it. 
I do not know what he does with the ABC, but if he is a member of the Commission and a staff appointment I take it that he has 2 positions. 
-The honourable member for Bowman says that he thinks he has 2 positions. I should like the Minister to answer this question. Has Marius Webb 2 positions? If so, does he receive 2 salaries? 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong does not like that. I am asking a question: Does he receive 2 salaries? My colleagues on the Government side say: 'Of course he does'. I suppose that is fair. But it is rather strange that the real policy of the Opposition has always been to ensure that a person does not hold 2 jobs. Here is one occasion on which it breaks down. The real purpose of my rising to speak to this particular clause of the Bill is in relation to the recommendation contained in paragraph 364 of the Green report which states: 
In addition, the Act does not provide for any maximum retiring age for Commissioners, and it would seem desirable that some maximum retirement age should be introduced. As the role of the Commissioner is part-time, the Inquiry believes that a maximum retiring age of 70 should be prescribed in the legislation. The Inquiry also believes that the maximum period of membership should be 10 years . . . 
I certainly have a long time to go before I reach the retiring age. I think that the same would apply to all Government members. I cannot be so sure of honourable members opposite. 
There is the odd one who uses a walking stick. I invite the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to comment, if he so desires, on whether he will give due consideration to paragraph 364 of the Green report which deals with the retiring age. I think it is common knowledge today, particularly in such areas as the ABC, that youth prevails. There is no doubt that, at 70 years of age one is getting on. 
The only other comment I make on that point is that I do not altogether go along with the Green report when it recommends that the maximum membership time should be 10 years. There are plenty of people, perhaps of my vintage, who could be appointed to the Commission, serve for more than 10 years and certainly be well and truly under 70 years of age. Perhaps that might answer the earlier interjection of the honourable member for Lang. I think that a maximum of 10 years service to the Commission is perhaps a little miserly. I believe that if a man or a woman is appointed to the Commission at well under 60 years of age, he or she should not automatically have to retire after serving for 10 years. I go along with the recommendation of retirement at 70 years and I hope that the Minister might give some indication as to whether he would consider introducing it, not necessarily in this legislation but on some future occasion. The other 2 points on which the Minister might comment are whether he has somebody in mind to represent Tasmania, because I think this is a terribly important point, and whether the staff member of the Commission does receive 2 salaries- as a Commissioner, on the one hand, and as a staff member on the other. 
I support the Government in its opposition to the Labor Party's amendment. Whilst I fully appreciate the sincerity of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  in trying to widen the scope of the Broadcasting Council I think one must remember that the line has to be drawn somewhere. I will not take very long. I am concerned that if we increase the number of members on the Council from the possible nine as announced by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to the eleven as proposed by way of amendment by the Opposition we could go on indefinitely changing the Council's numbers. I think that the honourable member for Maribyrnong would possibly agree with me: If you are in doubt you can always increase; but it is very difficult to reduce. Therefore I suggest to him that he should not pursue his amendment. If we include such organisations as the Australian Schools Commission, the Australian Postal Commission, the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Film and Television School, why not perhaps include viewers? It would not matter whether they were from the metropolitan areas or the country areas of different states or whether they watched this television station or that television station. We could go on indefinitely. I certainly go along with the Minister in rejecting this amendment. 
-There is one thing we must admire. Since the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was elevated to the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition he has certainly been carrying on a rearguard fighting spirit. Perhaps he learned that attitude some 30-odd years ago when he was recognised as something of a first-class soldier. However, I think I should remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the purpose of this Bill is to reconstitute the Australian Housing Corporation in accordance with the Government's announced policy and to change its name, nature and function so that its sole responsibility will be the administration of the defence service homes scheme. I also remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that it was the stated policy of the Liberal and National Country parties prior to the 1 975 elections that the activities of the Australian Housing Corporation would be critically examined. Following that examination the Government decided that the Corporation should be abolished. The decision was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 2 February this year. 
We hear members of the Opposition often criticising the Government because it has changed or not fulfilled its policy or has broken a promise. The intentions are quite clearly set out m the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development (  Mr Newman).  Of course, honourable members opposite have become critical of that too. Basically this legislation is a machinery measure. I regret that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  cannot participate in this debate this afternoon. I know that he wished to do so but he has been tied down with other important business. Naturally enough he will attempt to join in the debate before it is concluded. 
The legislation gives one an opportunity of examining the issues in a somewhat limited area. It is unfortunate that since the Prime Minister announced the Government's proposals there has been a great deal of speculation. Fears have been expressed that the principles of the original Defence Service Homes Act will be removed. There have been suggestions of increasing interest rates. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition today forecast an increase of 2 per cent. I suppose he is entitled to make a guess the same as anyone else. I do not know how he arrives at the 2 per cent. I look forward to seeing how far out his forecast is by the end of next year. 
One would expect that it is the role of the Opposition continually to throw doubt in the minds of the people outside this place by making wild accusations. Let me refer to portion of the Minister's second reading speech. This will remove all doubts as to where the Government is going on this matter. The relevant part reads: 
. the Government is whole-heartedly committed to the preservation and continuation of the defence service homes scheme, which we see as a scheme of historical and social importance for a large number of Australians. 
One must remember that the original Bill on this matter was introduced way back in 1918. Since that time the Liberal and National Country parties have carried on the principle of preferential interest rates. This applied for all the funds made available in this area up until 1972. With a change of government we saw a change of policy. It is true that the Labor Government increased the amount of the loan. Those increases have to be taken for granted as costs increase, though it is fair and proper that the amount of the loans should increase. The Labor Government did not follow the preferential rates of the time but rather increased interest rates from 3% per cent to  In  per cent for the amount of loan which exceeded $ 12,000; that is the last $3,000. It is true, too, that the field of eligibility has been widened. There is no doubt in my mind that this has been acceptable to many people. But whilst this has been appreciated by many, I believe it is the general consensus on the Government side that we do not want to see any alteration or interference with the original claimants of the old defence service homes. I want to make that point very clear. I for one would not go along with any interference with those claims because I believe that that was an agreement entered into by the individual claimant and the Government of the day which has been upheld until 1972. 
With regard to the question of the upper limit, which is running at $ 1 5,000 at the present time, it is pretty obvious that it naturally has not kept pace with demand and the increased cost of housing. If this was a straight out grant, it would be different. But it is not a grant; it is a loan. No government can make such a loan without having some form of security. Naturally enough it demands security for a first mortgage. Quite often it is rather difficult for recipients to be able to take full advantage of the loan of $15,000 and still have sufficient funds to be able to pay for the premises which they have purchased. There is no need for me to spell that out because it is obvious that one does not obtain any sort of reasonable home costing under, say, $20,000 today. There is no doubt that it would certainly cost much in excess of that amount. I commend this legislation to the Parliament. I do not think there is any need to go into lengthy discussions on it. I do not agree that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition needed to go into all the ramifications of the Housing Corporation. I do not think it is at all necessary. 
I conclude by complimenting the Government on carrying out its original promise to do exactly what has been done. I think I can say, on behalf of a lot of ex-service personnel throughout Australia, that they certainly appreciate the importance of the change of name from the old Repatriation Department to the Department of Veterans' Affairs. At the same time, I certainly welcome the opportunity of tying the defence service homes to that Department where, in my opinion, it should have been many years ago. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister read a statement attributed to  Mr Kennedy, Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission, regarding a possible rise in postal rates in the near future? Can the Minister inform the House whether this is a factual statement? 
I rise very briefly to associate the National Country Party of Australia with the Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill 1977 which is before the Committee. I would like to compliment the Government for the stand which it has taken. In doing so I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who has just resumed his seat, and who has worked on this matter for many years, as he had just reminded us. I have had the pleasure of working with him on numerous occasions, and I know how devoted he has been to this cause. Of course, his interest is brought about by his earlier experience in the Services. I think the significant aspect of the Bill is that its effect is to be retrospective to July 1976. From that time on, of course, we have the automatic annual adjustments to be effective on 1 July of each year and based on the consumer price index figure for the 12 months prior to March of the year in which the adjustment is being made. I think that provision virtually removes much of the contentious politicking that could be and has been used over the years in relation to this type of legislation. I certainly commend the Government for that. 
In his second reading speech the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  referred to the fact that he was speaking only in broad terms on the provisions of the Bill for the simple reason that a lot of technical detail would be forthcoming as a result of the Bill. I repeat the words used by the Minister: 
It was intended also to provide in this Bill beneficial amendments to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act designed to remove an anomaly affecting certain officers who were detrimentally affected by their transfer to the DFRDB scheme in October 1972. Drafting of the necessary amendment has raised a number of complex technical drafting difficulties. The pension updating provisions are therefore being introduced now and drafting of the amendments to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act is proceeding for introduction as quickly as possible into the House. 
That is rather a novel way of doing things, but I still think that it is a practical approach to a problem which has been with governments for a long time. I believe that that is one very good way in which the Government can legislate for a very worthy cause. On behalf of my Party, I support the measure before the Committee. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Hume that that address by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  will hardly go down as one of his most brilliant contributions in this Parliament. I felt that he was floundering right from the word go. One must of course automatically ask why. If it is analysed I think honourable members will find that the answer is that this legislation literally cuts right across some of the desires and aims of the Leader of the Opposition. He went right back some 18 or 20 years by quoting some case put by members of the then Australian Country Party who were on the Constitutional Review Committee, namely the honourable member for New England and the honourable member for Canning, when he said that they agreed that no electorate should have a population 10 per cent in excess of or 10 per cent below any other electorate. Of course that is exactly what this legislation does, and this is why I could not understand what the Leader of the Opposition was talking about. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who is sitting to my right behind me is seeking to interrupt but I do not know whether he knows very much about this either. It is interesting when one looks around this House to find that hardly any members of the Opposition party were present to support their Leader unlike the position on this side of the Parliament because something in the vicinity of 80 per cent to 90 per cent of our members are present to listen to the Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony). 
The Leader of the Opposition made great play a few minutes ago on the subject of migrants creating more work compared with the amount of work done in respect of the normal voting population. 
In relation to the allocation of funds for roads, has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to a statement attributed to the Victorian Minister for Transport criticising meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council relating to decisions on the Commonwealth funding for road needs and allocations? I further ask: Has the Commonwealth given consideration to allocating further funds for roads for next year or reallocating those funds already so allocated? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have just been informed that the Whips want to get this Bill through before the House rises, which gives me about 1 1½ minutes to say what I would like to have said over a much lengthier period on a very important subject. In view of the time, all I want to do is suggest that a few issues have come out of this debate this afternoon. It is interesting to note that this is one occasion on which there has been very little difference between members on either side of the 
Parliament. It appears to me that members are not divided according to States but on whether they happen to live in a metropolitan area, a built-up area, a manufacturing area, and so on. If my memory serves me correctly, when I first delivered a policy speech some 20 years ago the subject matter on which I spoke was import duty versus bounties. I still maintain that there is room for both. I believe that there are instances in which import duties are the answer and there are other instances when a bounty is the answer. I am not too sure whether I agree with the suggestion made by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  that if an industry is worth protecting then the cost of that protection must be borne by all people. I suppose that, as in my case, he did not have long enough to explain what he meant by that. After all, one could say that import duties are borne in certain instances by all members of the community in Australia. 
I will not waste my time by getting involved in that argument, which will keep for another day, because I assured the Whip that I would take only 2 minutes. I want to raise the question of the amount of bounty in relation to the percentage of manufactured items in Australia, and I refer once again to the tractor bounty. I refer also to a fairly substantial manufacturer in my own electorate, A. F. Gason Pty Ltd, farm cab manufacturers. If the situation is not watched closely a substantial factory which has been very successful and has grown from nothing to a point where it employs a large number of people will be driven out of business because of insufficient protection for the quantity of materials used or manufactured in an area which is classified as Australian made. In view of the time I will not enlarge on that problem, but do draw it to the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  I hope that if that firm does get into trouble the Minister will look at it very sympathetically. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will no doubt be well aware of the feeling of some beef producers in Victoria regarding the future of their industry. Is the Minister aware that there is a threat of further stock blockades if beef producers cannot receive better prices, better selling methods and an improved authority controlling their product? Finally, is the Minister in a position to indicate what progress has been made regarding the establishment of the Meat and Livestock Corporation? 
I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I will not delay the House for very long. However, I would like to associate members of the National Country Party of Australia with this legislation for the simple reason that over the years we have taken a very close interest in defence service housing. Any honourable member who has been in this chamber for any length of time will fully appreciate the many problems that have been associated with defence service homes over the yearsproblems concerning interest rates, the amount of money that has been available and so forth. 
I believe that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  covered this subject fairly well in his second reading speech. If people want to know more about the legislation, I refer them to that speech by the Minister. The only point I wish to make relates to proposed section 39a ( 1 ), as contained in clause 1 1. The proposed section states: 
There shall be credited to the Defence Service Homes Trust Account- 
moneys paid to the Corporation out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament from time to time for the purpose of providing capital for the Corporation or otherwise for the purposes of the account; and 
all moneys received by the Corporation under this Act, not being payments that are required by section 40 to be credited to the Defence Service Homes Insurance Trust Account. 
The purpose of that, in a nutshell, is to provide for moneys that are being repaid from existing loans to be paid into the Defence Service Homes Corporation instead of their going straight into the Treasury. It will be up to the Corporation then to handle the money as it sees fit. 
I hope that as a result of this change the Government and the Corporation will be able to give more sympathetic consideration to second loans. I think that every member who has had anything to do with defence service homes will appreciate the personal problems that are created as a result of people not being able to secure a second loan. I am not suggesting for one moment that we should open this up and extend this assistance to everyone who wants to sell his home and move around the corner. All I am suggesting is that there are numerous occasions on which people, for health, occupational and other reasons, wish to sell their home and move to another location. These people often are cornered by not being able to secure a second loan. Once they have sold their existing defence service home, they can receive a second loan only in exceptional circumstances. I hope that as a result of this legislation a move will be made in the not too distant future to ease the pressure on those people who wish to secure a second loan. 
It is not my purpose tonight to go through the whole of the report of the Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System- the Toose report. However, I have been challenged by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  to say a few words. There are a few things to which I should like to make reference, but at the commencement of my comments I should like to ask the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  what he really meant when he said that he could look at a medical file only after an appeal has been lodged. I hope I heard him correctly and that this is not a case of discrimination against those people who are not medical practitioners. I believe that the Repatriation Department in the main is fairly helpful when it comes to making available the histories and various bits of information that members of Parliament want in the preparation of a case on behalf of their constituents. 
I commend the honourable member for Her7 bert  (Mr Bonnett)  who, in his usual form, covered the subject matter very well indeed and did it in such a few well chosen words. I believe that in his 5-minute speech he said possibly much more than the honourable member for Hughes said in his 20-minute speech. It is just as well our Standing Orders permit only 20 minutes for the making of speeches on some of these issues. After all, it would be very easy for one to commence by picking up the Toose report and speaking at some length on it simply by talking about the statistics in it. The only statistic I want to mention in complimenting  Mr Justice  Toose on his preparation of the report is the figure he mentioned at the tail end of his opening when he said that approximately 4300 individuals were contacted. That proves to me that at least the inquiry did something, that it was prepared to concentrate its efforts in the preparation of a very satisfactory report. 
I do not intend to go through all the issues that have been mentioned. The honourable member for Hughes said that there are something like 300 recommendations in this report. Surely the honourable member for Hughes has been here long enough to appreciate that no government would just automatically accept all the recommendations in the report of an inquiry that has been continuing for many years and that has come to light with 300 recommendations. What I like about this legislation is the fact that the Government has started to accept some recommendations of the Toose Committee. I hope that the Government will take the opportunity to study some of the other recommendations so that in turn some day it will be able to recommend many more of them to the Parliament. 
As I said, the legislation before us tonight covers quite a deal of ground. I will mention 2 matters, namely proposed section 47 to which the honourable member for Hughes referred and also to the Toose Committee's recommendations in respect of the assessment of incapacity which I believe to be a very vital section of the report. Paragraph 1 14 of the report states: 
Broadly, assessment of 'disablement' for the purposes of paying war pension should measure the total effect of service-related disabilities upon the member. Economic loss should not be adopted as the sole basis for providing compensation under the legislation. 
Paragraph 1 15 states: 
The assessment of 'disablement' should be based primarily on the level of impairment arising from service-related disabilities and, in addition, should also take into account the following: 
pain and suffering; 
This is one consideration which is often overlooked when people talk about repatriation matters. The paragraph continues: 
loss of amenities and expectation of life; and 
economic loss. 
Paragraph 117 states: 
Special Rate pension or its equivalent, for total and permanent disablement is properly payable irrespective of the age of the member, so long as he satisfies the requirements of the legislation. 
Paragraph 127 states: 
The present war pensions structure should be replaced by a new structure incorporating two separately identifiable components, namely: 
a ) disablement pension; and 
b) income supplement. 
Paragraph 128 states: 
The disablement pension should comprise a single scale, with the top level pension payable for total disablement expressed as Rating 100. Lower levels of pension for partial disablement should decrease in regular shifts expressed as fixed proportions of the rating for total disablement. 
This is a matter about which I have thought and on which I have had very strong views for a long, long time. I recall very vividly many years ago when I was a new member in this place making a comment in relation to the difference between the 100 per cent pension and the totally and permanently incapacitated pension. For the benefit of honourable members who are not familiar with this matter I point out that there was a very big variation between the 2 rates. I was trying to emphasise this difference to the various Ministers and various members in the chamber. However, I did not meet with a great deal of success. The former honourable member for Bass came to my aid and supported the principle. The only way that I could express the big variation in the 100 per cent disability rate and the TPI rate was to say that 'I could not see how a person could get sicker than 100 per cent sick'.  Senator McKellar  eventually accepted the principle that the TPI rate and the 100 per cent rate were too far apart. The then Government introduced an intermediate rate. We now have a situation where the intermediate rate, which was normally expected to be below 100 per cent, is now to be higher than 100 per cent. I belive that  Mr Justice  Toose made a very valid point when he recommended that eventually disability must be based on 100 per cent. Sooner or later we will be able to sort this matter out. 
I agree with the honourable member for Hughes that proposed section 47 has created much feeling and heart-burn. The Minister for Evironment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is sitting at the table, represents the Bass electorate. The Minister's predecessor and I thought along similar lines in respect of some of these matters. I note with interest the concern shown by the former member for Bass and the fact that the present legislation is being guided through the House by the present member for Bass. I compliment the Minister at the table and the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  for accepting the recommendations of the Toose report. The provisions of section 47 have always been an issue amongst many ex-servicemen. People, of course, become confused when we start talking about the benefit of the doubt rests with the exserviceman or appellant. In actual fact, the interpretation is whether there is any doubt in the minds of members of the tribunal. I will be interested to see how this provision operates when the legislation becomes law. 
Proposed new section 47 (2) states: 
The Commission, Board, Appeal Tribunal or Assessment Appeal Tribunal - 
This is important- 
. shall grant the claim or application or allow the appeal, as the case may be, unless it is satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there are insufficient grounds for granting the claim or application or allowing the appeal. 
Section 47 ( 1 ) of the principal Act, in part, states:  . . . shall not be bound by technicalities or legal forms or rules of evidence and shall give to the claimant, applicant or appellant the benefit of any doubt. 
If one studies these 2 provisions closely, one can see where the weakness lies. I am very grateful to and I compliment the Government for having introduced this measure. It has been one that has been bugging many people for along time. There is no doubt in my mind that it will not be long before the Government considers other recommendations in the Toose report. I am sure that we will be debating other repatriation measures in the not very distant future. I conclude by saying that I compliment the Government and I certainly support this Bill. 
I support the legislation before the House. The comments of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in relation to this legislation are interesting. He said that he was not opposing the Bills. Therefore, I presume that he is supporting them. I do not wish to go into any lengthy details about the Packer Press. We all know the effect that gentleman has had in recent weeks on one of the sporting activities to which the honourable member for Newcastle referred. Like him, I do not go along with it I think  Mr Packer  has done a lot of damage to the famous game of cricket. 
The honourable member for Newcastle was somewhat loud in his criticisms of certain television stations. I think he used the words 'exorbitant profits'. We should be careful when we use those words. People often suggest that certain companies have made huge profits. They leave such statements out in the cold or up in the air. They do not give a clear indication of the expenses of those companies. We often read in the Press about a certain company making so many million dollars profit. Very little reference is made to the investment involved. I suppose that in some instances, even with inflation running the way it is today, the investment could prove to be beneficial. A sound businessman would look at an investment based on what it would cost him for interest, et cetera. This has to be taken into consideration when one talks about profits, let alone exorbitant profits. 
A risk is involved in operating television and radio stations, as in any other business. The honourable member for Newcastle said that $44m profit had been made by television stations throughout Australia. He did not indicate the sort of losses that some television stations incurred in the early days. I wonder how far behind or in front they are. 
I do not agree with that either. Many stations have made huge losses, not just in one year but in many years. That brings me to the matter of radio stations. I am very pleased to see that the Government has decided to draw a line. It has said that there will be virtually no increase in fees for those television and radio stations with a small or reasonably small turnover. It is all very well to say that a profit of $4m is a pretty big amount. This amount is  gross  earnings; it is not net earnings. I congratulate the Government on drawing the line so that all those stations with gross earnings of less than $4m will not be affected by this Bill. That is terribly important. 
If I had time and if the House were prepared to listen, I could talk at some length on the problems of some of the smaller radio stations, particularly those in country areas. My own local station, which is situated in the heart of my electorate, has changed hands on two occasions in the last two years. That would hardly indicate that it was making huge profits. No doubt, it changed hands because its owners could not make a go of it. Another interesting point came out of a recent statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  He said that it was estimated that only 15 television stations and two radio stations in Australia would be affected by the increased fees. That is rather significant. There are certainly many more than 1 5 television stations in Australia. I remind the House that gross earnings must be more than $4m before the increased fees apply. This would indicate that a large number of television stations earn well below that figure. Only two radio stations will be affected. In other words, every radio station in Australia, bar two, has a turnover of less than $4m. I assure honourable members that many of them would not even qualify to pay the lowest rate of one per cent, on earnings of $0.5m. 
I make these points in passing. The legislation does not contain a great many provisions. I do not think one needs to go into it at any length. I compliment the Government on making sure that the increased revenue it will receive from both radio and television stations will come from those which can afford it. The legislation certainly will not affect those which can ill afford it. That is very important. I shall not delay the House and branch out as the previous speaker did. I do not wish to be too critical of him, but he got a little off the beam. I do not want to be accused of doing that. There is one area which does not come within the category of this Bill but which I wish to mention. I refer to some of the side issues of radio. This results from a statement made by the Minister on 17 August. He referred to the increase from $20 to $25 for aircraft stations, hand phone stations, harbour mobile stations, land mobile stations which include citizen band radio, radio determination stations and ship stations. 
I am somewhat concerned about the increased costs of citizen band radio. Most of us agree that many CB radios are being used by the younger generation. It is all very well to say that if they have the money to buy this equipment they can afford to pay a licence fee. That is true to a degree. Some of them are using it for various purposes. It is interesting to note that primary industries thoughout Australia are now using these radios to a large degree. Equipment that people thought was completely unnecessary a few years ago, they now find most beneficial. We certainly want to encourage them to use this equipment provided they do not block the wave lengths and bands which are necessary for other forms of communications. 
I do not like to use the phrase 'I warn the Government'. I believe that the Government should be treating these matters a little more sympathetically. The fee is $25 a set. As honourable members would appreciate, it would be impossible to operate with just one set because there would be no one on the other end. In numerous cases the operators have four, or even eight sets, which becomes very expensive. I suggest to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that in future he might give a little consideration to the problems associated with that. Apart from that, on behalf of my party I support this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Amendment Bill is somewhat similar to the two previous Bills which have just passed through the chamber. This Bill is very brief but, nevertheless, not unimportant. I was glad to note that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  used the words 'drafting error' by a previous government. That is very complimentary, but I suppose that as it came from a member of the same party as the party which constituted the previous Government I can understand his using those words. He would not claim that it was a mistake or an error on the part of the previous Government in preparing the original legislation. However, I am not arguing the point. I j lust say that he was very complimentary. This is a very short Bill. There seem to be a lot of words on the two pages of the Bill but its main purpose could be summed up in a very few words, namely: ... by omitting from sub-sections (2) and (3) "For the purposes of sub-section (I)" and substituting "While this section continues in force". 
That is the basis of the whole Bill. But, as the honourable member for Newcastle said, it means a mighty lot; it means the continuation of the exchange of officers from the Australian Postal Commission to the Australian Telecommunications Commission and vice versa. I think it was understood that although these officers who originally belonged to the old Postmaster-General's Department were now officers of two Commissions it was only right and proper that they should have the right to transfer from one commission to the other, even under protest, if they so desired. As there is very little in the Bill and I do not wish to delay the House for any length of time, I conclude by commending the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the composition of all statutory marketing boards that come within his administration. 
) Who is responsible for nominations to these boards. 
How many boards or corporations are grower controlled. 
I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question which is supplementary to the answer given a few minutes ago by the Prime Minister. Has the Minister for Primary Industry kept abreast of the numerous propositions put forward by a number of producer organisations seeking aid for the beef industry in its economic crisis? If so, is the Minister in a position to indicate which organisations have forwarded fully documented and researched proposals for government consideration? Has the Minister received a consensus from all the recognised producer organisations, or is it a fact, as reported, that the Government is relying on one organisation? 
I would have been quite happy to have had this debate adjourned but with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  firing a few questions at the Government I feel that we should discuss it a little further. I remind the honourable member of this simple and straightforward sentence in the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson): 
The contract with L. M. Ericsson will require a high proportion of Australian manufacture reaching at least 80 per cent as volume increases. 
It would be impossible for any Minister to spell out what he was going to do this year or next year. The Government has accepted a very important and large tender. No doubt time will soon sort out the point about which the honourable member for Mackellar is so terribly worried. I am not worried. I take this opportunity of congratulating the Government and the Minister in particular for reaching a decision to implement a new scheme that will be of great benefit to Australian subscribers over the next few years. 
My interpretation of this decision is that not only will it improve the standard of the equipment that is so necessary in Australia but it will also help with the cost Whilst we are talking about $500m in one sense I think that the initial cost will be much lower. There is no fear that this will be a load on the taxpayers. Rather it will be an advantage to the taxpayers. I was a little concerned to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  say that there would be a confrontation between Sydney and Melbourne as to where all this equipment will be manufactured. Perhaps there is always an argument about whether a new factory should be put in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or anywhere else. The all important fact is that a decision has been made by the Government. I feel that whether the equipment is manufactured in Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide does not mean a thing. The important thing is that with the acceptance of this contract, sooner or later we will be employing approximately 800 people. That is the information supplied to me on this subject. We ought to commend the Government rather than criticise it. 
I have ho hesitation in saying that once the people realise what the Government is doing in this field it will help considerably. One could talk at some length about the problems within the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I do not think I ought to take up the time of the House to do that at this stage. Perhaps on some other occasion I shall explain the problems within Telecom. I certainly support the motion before the House. 
Debate (onmotion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
It is always interesting to follow the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in a debate in this House. The honourable member seems to have an obsession with many things. One can always bet dollars to gooseberries that he will start talking about the great profits- the 'record profits' I think he called them today- of the multinationals. I think the honourable member challenged the House to name any multinational which had not made record profits. I only wish I had a bit more time to take him up on that point. When talking about multinationals the honourable member for Hindmarsh and many other members of the Opposition seem to forget that irrespective of the size of profits, the important point is the investment that is involved. In other words, the honourable member for Hindmarsh ought to look at the return that they receive for their capital investment. I am quite sure that if he only accepted that argument he would appreciate what this matter is all about. 
After listening to the speeches made by members of the Opposition during this debate I believe that there is very little one needs to say in answer to their criticism. I do not think I have heard weaker comment from members of the Opposition during a Budget debate in the 18 years I have been a member of this place. I think the same observation applies to comment that has been made outside this place. I do not think that there is any need for me to concentrate a great deal of my time on answering anything that has been put up by the Opposition. Also, I do not think that there is any need for me to expand some of the virtues of the Budget because this has been done ably and well by many speakers from my side of politics. 
I wish to raise a few issues that I believe the Government should consider in the near future because I believe that no matter how good a budget may be there is always room for improvement. The first matter I wish to mention concerns Telecom Australia. I think I can say that in my 18 years as a member of this place there has been no problem more constant than the telephone problem and it is still growing. Years ago it was the poor service. Then came the cost of upgrading telephone lines in country areas. Today it is the charges involved. These are the basic complaints. The upgrading of telephone lines started many years ago on a point system. The then Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a 25 kilometre departmental line. We had a change of government and the Labor Government reduced this to eight kilometres. It established the Telecommunications and Postal Commissions and laid down the fundamental rules that would apply. The main features of the rules were that 50 per cent of capital was to come from revenue and that the user pays principle should be adopted with little thought given to those residing in remote areas. 
Labor saddled the Commissions to a degree that they had no alternative but to increase the rates dramatically. We all recall this very vividly. This increase was coupled with the removal of the differing rental rates in accordance with the numbers of subscribers that could be contacted for a local call fee. This then became a very heavy burden on many country business houses as well as private citizens and primary producers. In this day and age when the telephone is used so extensively in metropolitan areas, country cities and towns, any increased rates in installation charges, rental, local or trunk charges are a very heavy burden on such users. My Party and I, unlike some of my colleagues on the other side of the chamber, have been very concerned about these rates for a very long time. We have endeavoured to have improvements made. We did make some progress up until the change of government in 1972. This change in government brought bad times as far as subscribers were concerned, the worst being the charter laid down for the Commissioners. I could give many examples of genuine hardship but time will not allow me to do so. I will therefore confine my remarks to one area only. 
Strange as it may seem, the matter I wish to raise concerns an area that is common to both the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and myself. I refer to the area known as the Balmoral district which is situated approximately half way between Hamilton in the Prime Minister's electorate and Horsham in the Wimmera electorate. The distance between the two major centres is some 80 miles. But in the centre the residents are unable to ring either city for a local call fee. This may seem strange to many people in this chamber. One exchange can contact only some 400 subscribers for a local fee. 
I wonder how many people subscribers in metropolitan areas can contact for the local call fee? 
The people in this area have no access to a doctor, hospital or major business house by way of a local call. On inquiry I am told that because of the zoning system there is little chance of improvement They will continue to pay trunk rates for such calls. I wonder how many metro- politan subscribers would accept this situation? meers of the Department or the Telecommunications Commission are no doubt sympathetic and have done all that is possible to assist but the condition laid down in the charter of the Commission ties their hands. So I appeal to the House as well as to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to give consideration to easing the burden in such cases. 
The Commission is introducing a new radio telephone in the area of Longreach in the electorate of Kennedy. I am sure that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  knows about that because no doubt he has had a bit to do with it. I am well aware of the problems facing the Commission regarding charges of various kinds. In accordance with the charter the Commission has to find about 50 per cent of capital and it also has to implement the unfair user pays principle. If we adopt this principle in every other department, well and good, but we do not do so. That is the all important point. 
Postal and telephone facilities are to my mind a service to the community. Government members must always remember that. What would be the position if we adopted a user pays principle in respect of many other fields in which the Commonwealth has a responsibility such as railways, education, water supply, social welfare and health? If we subsidise these fields and if we subsidise pensioners, why do we not subsidise people who live in isolated areas? I am told that if a full charge, including all capital costs such as the cost associated with the construction of dams and water reticulation, was made in some States for water consumed, water would be too dear to drink. We should think of the subsidies that are paid for shipbuilding which amounts to thousands of dollars for each man employed. This argument was put to the House not so many months ago. Therefore I say it is about time something was done to ease the problems of Telecom in areas outside our capital cities. 

 Senator Lewis recently presented in the Senate a petition calling for the introduction of equal telephone charges throughout Australia based on a time call. This petition was taken up by country people and it really burnt. I know that such a scheme has many problems such as loading existing services and the fact that a 10c charge will not bring in the necessary revenue required. Another problem is the fact that many city users would not accept such a scheme. But many thousands of subscribers want to see a change.  Senator Lewis  and I agree that something must be done when subscribers are forced to pay trunk charges to call their doctor, hospital or business centre. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, we subsidise other fields. We subsidise certain pensioners who in many cases are not in such need of a telephone as are people living in remote areas where installation and trunk charges are extremely high and in some cases could be classified almost as discriminative. Unfortunately  Senator Lewis'  scheme as put forward could not be fully implemented. Nevertheless, the idea is a very worthy one and I commend him for his suggestion. 
Perhaps we have now reached a stage when the Government should instruct the Commission or some other authority to carry out some sort of investigation into all areas of charges with a view to easing the burden created by trunk rates, particularly as they affect the minority in remote areas. 
I want to make a brief reference to immigration and how it affects the employment situation. As I see it, there are two important issues: Firstly, how our population is running by world standards and, secondly, what effect immigration has on our work force or, better still, our unemployment situation. Under previous LiberalCountry Party governments the broad policy was to increase our population by immigration by an average of 1 per cent of the population each year. This worked very satisfactorily. It brought to Australia a wealth of knowledge and helped to build up our numbers, and generally speaking there was an improvement all round. Today, because of economic pressures, our immigration program has dropped off dramatically. This has been the case now for a number of years and I believe that we should be studying the matter very closely. 
According to the managing director of IBIS,  Mr Phil  Ruthven, in 1788 the estimated total population of Australia- basically Aboriginal, naturally-was about 300,000, or 0.04 per cent of the world population. By 1870, roughly 100 years later, our population had increased to about 0.54 per cent of the world population. After roughly another 100 years, in 1977, it has fallen to 0.33 per cent of the world population. If this trend is allowed to continue we could fall back to the 1788 level. I am not that pessimistic; but we could not afford for it to recede to that percentage, because many problems would result. 
The general opinion of the effect of migration on our work force is that it creates unemployment. In my opinion, that is a fallacy and a myth. Last year the intake for Australia was 18,000 skilled workers. Coupled with that 1 8,000 people were some 22,000 people- wives, children, et cetera. The suggestion that migrants are required to do the dirty work is also a myth, in my opinion. It has been proved that migration has increased the specialist field in many areas. Cultural enrichment of our present society is terribly important. No longer is Australia made up of a few farmers and a few others in the work force. We are living in an age of expanding technology. 
It is obvious that each time another migrant family is brought here work is created. Examples are the building of new homes and extra school rooms, the provision of more hospital beds, and so on. I could go on giving examples. It could well be said: 'Yes, but at what cost?' The cost could be no greater than the cost of allowing the nation to deteriorate because of its lack of population, and that is a vital point. Migration creates work, and the sooner we move along these lines the sooner people will regain confidence, and so build more homes and establish more industry. Australia is heading rapidly towards zero population growth. If this trend continues, our influence on world markets will disappear, particularly in South East Asia. Without the ability to make a worthwhile contribution to general welfare, which is so important in the world today, we soon could find ourselves becoming a second rate nation. 
In recent times I have noted that many comments have been made about the beef industry. I read an article in today's Melbourne  Sun  headed Cattlemen just had to kick'. The article reported some remarks made by the  President  of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia,  Mr Graham  McCamley, about why his organisation had to kick. This gentleman complained about a statement that was made in this House the other night by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson).  He criticised the honourable member for Leichhardt and suggested that he should resign his seat if he could not carry out the duties expected of him. If anybody should resign I would say it is people such as  Mr McCamley  who are creating great difficulties in regard to the problems of the industry. 
In recent times we have heard a lot about the problems of the beef industry. I was quite amused to read a statement made recently by the Leader of the Labor Party in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt-  a former Minister for Agriculture. I think he made the statement yesterday. The honourable senator claimed that in 1973, the first year of the Labor Government, the demand for beef on the overseas market was extremely good. He went on to indicate how much beef Australia exported in that year and implied that the Government at the time could claim some of the credit for it. I was surprised when I read that article, as I could not believe that the honourable senator could be so naive as to suggest that it was the government of which he was a member that was responsible for those sales. Surely he must appreciate that when international meat sales take place it is not like walking into a shop and buying a bag of lollies. Most deliveries are made as a result of decisions taken months earlier- in many cases up to 12 months earlier. Countries such as Japan and the United States of America work on a quota basis and deliveries could well be spread over six to 12 months, depending on the number of other issues that are raised at the same time. 
If the honourable senator really wants to be honest, I believe that he should be saying that the Labor Government, which came into office in 1972, fulfilled agreements entered into by the preceding Government as a result of the activities of the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry in the LiberalCountry Party Government. He also should say that the real collapse of the industry came under that Labor Government, not under the LiberalCountry Party Government. Not only did the demand for and the price of meat collapse during that regime; the Labor Party was instrumental in ruining the Australian economy. It created an all time record inflation rate, thereby indirectly crippling the beef industry because of the costs it faced. 
A lot of Press publicity has been given in recent times to the Cattlemen's Union. I might add that it has been backed by some supporters of the Australian Labor Party. To my mind, some of the leaders of the Cattlemen's Union have virtually sold the industry down the drain by trying to play politics with it. Now we find that they are claiming to be virtually the spokesmen for the industry. 
Of course it is ridiculous. The older and more recognised and reputable organisations, such as the Australian Farmers Federation, the Australian National Cattlemen's 
Council and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, are the organisations that should be getting the credit for any actions that the Government is about to announce. They are the organisations which have carried the burden over a long period of time. I am quite confident that it was those organisations which influenced the Government's thinking on this all important issue. 
I do not wish to brand all members of the Cattlemen's Union as being irresponsible, because I know that some of them are not. However, I am very critical of those who are using that organisation for policital purposes. I believe that a large number of members of that organisation are genuinely looking for some assistance and they thought that the only way in which they could put forward a case to the government of the day was to form a new organisation. Anyone who understands the industry realises that a new program for handling meat cannot be introduced overnight. We have heard a lot about meat classification, covering weight and grade and all sorts of things. It is terribly important, but it will take many months to introduce it and to have it available in all the large areas in which it is so necessary. I am told that there could be a delay of anything up to six months or 12 months in getting the equipment alone. Yet we hear people suggesting that meat classification should be introduced tomorrow. 
To my mind, the Cattlemen's Union is acting like a fly-by-night organisation, and its spokesmen are acting like fly-by-night operators. No doubt it will collapse as quickly as it was formed. I appeal to the rank and file members of that organisation to resign from it and to join, or rejoin, one of the reputable organisations which really carry some weight with the Government. The other organisations that I mentioned previously have carried the day for a long period of years. This is where we can get some good solid, sound thinking on the industry's problems. If they would only do that and try to. unite the industry instead of creating fragmentation within it I am certain that the industry would go from success to success. However, it certainly will not when there are people who are jumping on a bandwagon, a fly-by-night organisation, endeavouring to rectify the industry's problems by making a few wild and woolly statements and then when some action is taken trying to take all the credit. The credit goes firstly to the more established organisations, then to a sympathetic government which is doing all in its power to make sure that the problems are rectified. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am quite happy to follow the honourable member for 
Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  this evening because of a lot of what I want to say virtually follows on from where the honourable member left off. We are debating the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Administrative Services. It was with great interest that I noted that in relation to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet there has been an increase of some 12 per cent over last year's actual expenditure. For the Department of Administrative Services there has been an increase of only 7.8 per cent. I must conclude that comment by congratulating the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  for the way in which he has been able to hold back his expenditure. If we look at the actual figures we will see that for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet expenditure last year was $83m-odd and the appropriation for this year is $93m-odd. For the Department of Administrative Services expenditure last year was $254m-odd and the appropriation for this year is $273m-odd. From there I move to a break-up of the Department of Administrative Services. I notice that the amount provided for salaries has increased from $42m to $43m. The amount for rent for office and other accommodation has increased from $48 to $53m. In total that is an increase of about 7.3 per cent, which is in keeping with the general expenditure of the Department. 
As I said, I am glad to follow the honourable member for Grayndler in the debate this evening because I want to continue on from where he left off in his remarks about the proposed redistribution. It must be remembered that sometime in the future- be it this year, next year or whenever- there will automatically be a reduction in the expenditure incurred by the Department because after the next Federal election there will be three fewer members in this chamber. I do not say that three individuals will be missing but rather that there will be a reduction by three in the number of members. No doubt many other members will be missing but they will be replaced. However, in three cases they will not be replaced. The seat of Wimmera, which I have represented for some 18 or 19 years, is one of the electorates which it to disappear with the redistribution. Also the electorate represented by you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  will be cut up in the redistribution. No doubt you are as disappointed as I am. 
The interesting point, of course, is that it will be the first time since 1900 that there will be no seat of Wimmera. It is to be redistributed amongst the electorates of Wannon, Bendigo, 
Ballaarat and Mallee. Naturally enough it means that the areas of those electorates will increase quite considerably. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Grayndler say that the Opposition would not oppose any proposal which improved the services provided to members of parliament. All I can say to the honourable member for Grayndler is that perhaps a first move should be to giving a little consideration to the number of voters that a member has to represent in an electorate as well as to the area which he has to cover. 
It is bad enough that an electorate is to be lost altogether; that is one problem. But what of the future of the people who live in the western region of Victoria? They will experience great difficulty in contacting their Federal representative, and he will have difficulty in contacting his constituents. That is certainly a major problem. It is all very well for people to say: 'Yes, but that is not equal representation'. I believe that it is well on the way towards being equal representation. Surely these people are entitled to see their Federal member with as much ease as those people living in the metropolitan areas. 
The electorate about which I am most concerned is the proposed new seat of Mallee which at present is held by my colleague, Peter Fisher. He is a mighty good member too. The interesting thing is that the electorate of Mallee will cover an area of some 57,000 square kilometres. It will be the largest electorate in Victoria. At present it covers about 39,000 square kilometres. The enlarged geographical area will represent an increase of 36 per cent. The voting strength of the electorate will increase from 50,000-odd voters to 65,000-odd voters, an increase of 30 per cent. 
The electorate is situated geographically at a point which is the most distant in Victoria from Melbourne. In actual fact, it is an area which is one of the most difficult to service. There are few members of the Federal Parliament who would take a longer time to travel to and from Canberra. There are fewer electorates which would contain more centres to service than the proposed new seat of Mallee. It will serve two of the largest cities in Victoria, and they are situated at either end of the electorate. There is a third large city at the eastern end of the electorate. 
Horsham, which is virtually the home base or which is centrally located in the Wimmera electorate, has had an electoral office since 1949. Under the present arrangements the Departments of Administrative Services will allow only one electoral office in the Mallee electorate. Of course, the member for Mallee will have to decide on its site having in mind that he has three fairly big centres to service. As I said, he will have to service an electorate which has more towns and centres than any other electorate in Victoria. This means in actual fact that some 80 per cent of the population would not be able to contact their Federal member by telephone at a local service charge; a trunk call fee would have to be paid on each occasion. The people who live in the new Mallee electorate will not have easy access to departmental offices, such as those concerned with health, immigration, housing and repatriation. Admittedly it will have some branch offices of the Department of Social Security as well as Commonwealth Employment Service offices, but they are not located in every centre. So the office of the Federal member will virtually be a substitute for those vital offices at which people have to attend to direct inquiries and the like. 
I submit that if and when the redistribution takes place- naturally enough the legislation will be passed through this House at a very early date- the Minister should take immediate steps to see that arrangements are put in hand to have established a second electoral office, which is the current situation in the larger electorates of Kalgoorlie, the Northern Territory and others. At present the Department of Administrative Services has an office in Swan Hill in the Mallee electorate and another in Horsham in the Wimmera electorate. If the latter office is to function satisfactorily and economically, I contend that, for pretty obvious reasons, an early decision must be made. The office currently being used is under lease. If the contract lapses before a decision is made the Department will have to go to a lot of trouble to find a new location- I might add that office space is at a premium in that cityand would have to incur the extra expense involved in refurnishing, having the telephone connected and doing those things which are so terribly important in setting up an office. 
I believe it is bad enough to reduce the effect of the voice of people by means of a redistribution, but I think that can be cushioned to some degree at least by giving consideration to establishing sufficient suitable offices from which members of parliament can conduct their business. I believe they have to be provided with adequate staff, but equally importantly I believe that the position of the individual constituent has to be considered. I suppose it could be said that geographically the decision to wipe out the Wimmera electorate was the right one to make. Some people agree with that; some do not agree. 
As I said, the old Wimmera electorate will be encompassed in the large electorates of Wannon, Bendigo and Ballaarat. The Ballaarat electorate will be enlarged geographically and the workload of the representative of that electorate will also be increased because he will be moving into a fair portion of the Wimmera electorate. The same situation applies in relation to the Bendigo electorate. I have not worked out the distance involved yet; it could well be that his electorate will extend 100 miles or more into the western portion of Victoria. 
I have been speaking about the situation which will arise in the small State of Victoria. If honourable members think of the situation which will arise in other States they will appreciate the great inconvenience created by the redistribution for individual members of parliament as well as for the people they represent. So I suggest to the Minister and to the Government that they give early consideration to altering the formula under which a Federal member can have only one office in his electorate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Resources. Can the Minister say whether there are any signs of increased oil exploration in Australia in recent times? Are there any indications of a stronger movement in investment in mineral development? 
I just want to make a brief comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  At this juncture I hate to have to take issue with him but I believe that some of the comments he made in regard to clause 18 are hardly warranted. I think we must realise that clause 18 is one of the most important clauses in the Bill. It certainly is a very lengthy clause and it has received a lot of consideration over a number of months. In fact the clause ranges from page 8 to page 23 of the Bill. The honourable member for Newcastle has been a little critical of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in suggesting that he has been persuaded by this group or that group and that he has been done over by the Caucus. I can assure the honourable member for Newcastle that he was not done over in the Caucus yesterday. The Minister has made the decisions following a lot of consideration of the matters involved. 
At this stage I pay a tribute to him. This legislation is not being rushed through the Parliament, despite what some Opposition members have said. The Minister has had this legislation under consideration for a long time. I suppose that if we were to challenge the Minister and ask him how many deputations he has received in relation to this Bill he would tell us that he does not have a clue. He would not be able to tell us because there have been so many of them. The Minister has been very co-operative; he has listened to representatives from all sections of the industry. There is no limit to the extent to which we could amend this legislation. We could no doubt try for weeks and weeks to satisfy this section or that section in the industry. As one section is satisfied, of course another section is dissatisfied. 
So I say to the honourable member for New.castle that the Minister has done everything within his capacities to formulate this legislation. I believe that the many discussions that he has had with outside organisations, with people within his own Party and with members of the communications committee of which I happen to be a serving member, have been taken into consideration. The result is that he has brought to light what I believe to be the most satisfactory Bill that we could present to the House. 
I do not know how many times he has spoken with Reg. Ansett, but I can assure the honourable member that Reg. Ansett has put forward indirectly many propositions which have not been accepted. I know that they have not been accepted. So much for all of this claptrap that we hear. I think mention was made of the huge profits that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and his family are making from television. I want to remind those people- 
-I think that he did make some mention of $50 profit, but I do not know the extent of his investment. We do not know how much money he has invested in television stations or when he invested that money. I think it ought to be remembered that years ago when television was really in its infancy a lot of money was put into television with little chance of a profit being made from it. How many television stations, particularly those located in country areas, made huge losses? I wonder from how many radio stations throughout Australia the honourable member for Newcastle will claim that honourable members on the Government side have made profits? The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  is interjecting but I cannot quite make out what he is saying. 
-That is right. I feel that many honourable members opposite who are critical do not really appreciate the huge losses that the radio stations are making. If they want to socialise these things, that is well and good. The honourable member for Newcastle has said that that is all right. If the Opposition is not prepared to allow these stations even a small profit I can assure honourable members opposite that there will be many country areas, and certainly many metropolitan areas as well, which will have no radio service at all. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo asks about unemployment. That is another angle. Of course, the Opposition forgets these things. I am saying that it has to sink its pride and allow a little bit of profit in this area. If honourable members opposite want to call it excess, let them do so. As far as I am concerned, those people who put money into these industries are entitled to a certain amount of risk profit. If the Opposition is not prepared to allow them that risk profit, there will be no money available for investment, no radio stations and few television stations. 
I compliment the Minister. I believe that the Minister has done a magnificent job. We should be mindful of the various areas from which he has been approached; he has been approached by the radio stations and the television stations, both commercial and national, and by honourable members on the Opposition side and on the Government side. If the Opposition can provide a satisfactory answer which pleases everybody it will be doing a magnificent job. I believe that the Minister has gone very close to doing that. Time will prove that the decisions made by the Minister were the correct ones. 
As this is the last opportunity that an honourable member for Wimmera will have to ask a question, because of the disappearance of the seat of Wimmera which has been in existence since 1901, 1 should like to direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister noticed an advertisement in the daily newspapers indicating the achievements of Telecom Australia? Is the Minister in a position to indicate whether the information in the advertisement is correct? If so, does this mean that the actual trading surplus- interpreted as profit in some areas- will assist in the development of improved telephone services, particularly in country areas where the present service is anything but average? 
-I thank the honourable members who have made reference to my service in this place over recent years. Some 19 years ago I stood in this place a very nervous but proud man to make my maiden speech as a representative of the well known seat of Wimmera in Victoria. Today with only a few minutes at my disposal I think I can say that this a rather sad occasion as it is my final address to this chamber- not because I want to leave this place; not because I want to leave my constituents; not because my constituents want me to leave. The reason is a decision of the Parliament to redistribute the boundaries of the Australian electorates, and I do not dispute this. It hurts me because of the fact that I am losing direct contact with my constituents. The result is that for the first time since 1 90 1 there will be no seat of Wimmera. Nineteen years ago I spoke proudly of the importance of that well known area in western Victoria. Today I wish to say just a few words about other issues. 
First and foremost I want to say with all the sincerity I possess how much I have appreciated the great support and the confidence of the people in the electorate of Wimmera in selecting me as their representative for a period of 19 years less 12 days. I am very proud of the fact that I am the longest serving member for that area since 1901. 1 also am very proud of another issue. Without boasting may I say that the worst vote I ever received was on my first election, my best vote percentagewise ever recorded was on my last election. There is only one consolation, that is, that I am handing over my seat to four very capable members-my colleague and very close friend, Peter Fisher, John Bourchier, Jim Short and no less a man than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I know that they all are the types of representatives who are acceptable and that unless further redistributions affect thennew electorates I would expect all four to remain in this place until they wish to retire gracefully. 
I take this opportunity to thank many members of this Parliament- I include members of all three parties; but naturally I make particular reference to the members of my own party, including its leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)-  for their great assistance and cooperation over the years. I have made many friends in this place. I only hope that from time to time I can come back and renew old acquaintances. I thank all the officers and staff for their great assistance, as without it life in this place certainly would be much more difficult. I make special reference to one man who I believe stands out in particular, and that is  Mr Gordon  Pike. To use an old Australian cliche, he is a real white man. Nothing is too difficult for him. He is always pleasant, obliging and most efficient. I am sure that when that man retires he will be missed greatly. 
I pay a tribute to the many members of the various departments who have been very cooperative over the years. I refer particularly to officers in the Australian Postal Commission, the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the Department of Social Security. I do not exclude my own personal staff over these 19 years. I have always received the highest co-operation possible from them which, I believe, helps to create great harmony between officers, members and the public. I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  and aU your predecessors and your supporting colleagues for the continued tolerance of me and no doubt of other members of this place. 
I regret one thing as a result of leaving this place, one might say, a year early. I refer to the numerous issues that were commenced but not finalised because of lack of time. I do not wish to spell them out at this late hour, but one particular case stands out in my mind. It is an immigration case that should have been finalised long before this. It has been running for 3V4 years. I refer to the case known as the Chui Kwok Chui case. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  knows the story. I hope that he can clear up this matter in the very near future. It is an instance which involves no fault of Australian officers. It relates to a lack of co-operation, I believe, in the country in which this gentleman resides. I wish the Prime Minister every success in the forthcoming weeks. I am sure that, if the people judge him on his performance, his pohcies and his desire to return Australia to where it was on the world standards of a few years ago, he will be returned on 10 December in a resounding victory. 
