I direct my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I ask: In view of the fact that the Commonwealth Government is now running the transcontinental railway service and bearing in mind that pensioners travelling on State railway services receive concession fares, will the Minister consider the possibility of extending these concessions to pensioners travelling on the Indian-Pacific railway service? 

 - Mr Speaker, I am very disappointed that I was not given the opportunity to speak during the Address-in-Reply debate and that I am now allowed only 10 minutes instead of 25 minutes. But I am pleased that some progress has been made on my attempt to obtain concession fares for pensioners travelling on the Indian-Pacific railway service.I am very grateful to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  for standing down so that I can put forward urgent problems of the citizens of my electorate. 
At the present time 15,500,000 acres of the Darling electorate have been declared a drought area. The area covers the whole of the Milparinka pastures protection district, one-third of the Broken Hill pastures protection district and one-half of the Wilcannia pastures protection district. No doubt many honourable members read in the 'Daily Telegraph' this morning a letter written by a grazier in the Milparinka area which tells of the plight of the kangaroos and emus and which comments on the petitions put before this Parliament urging that efforts be made to save the kangaroos. This grazier suggested that if the Parliament wants to save the kangaroos we should send truckloads of fodder into the drought areas and take the kangaroos back in the same trucks. However I draw this Government's attention to the fact that once an area has been declared a drought area rail concessions apply in New South Wales for the carrying of stock and fodder. However there is no railway in the far north west corner. During the 1966 drought the Federal Government made finance available to the States so that a road freight subsidy could be paid on the transport of fodder and stock. 
This present drought struck very suddenly, due largely to a very severe dust storm on New Year's Day. Drift sand built up to within 2 feet of the top of the 6 feet high dog-proof fence. In other places it was almost possible to drive a 4-wheel drive vehicle under the fence. Years of good work by the rangers on this fence was undone in 1 day. Many watering places were covered by drift sand. This required a lot of bulldozing and repair work. These people urgently require Government assistance, but unfortunately no-one knows what the Government intends to do. One grazier has told me that he could wait no longer. He transported some of his stock to Peterborough in South Australia. This cost him SI. 20 per head, and after the sale of the stock he had to write out a cheque for $500 to make up the cost. 
We believe that once an area has been declared a drought area the Government subsidy should be granted automatically. These graziers should know what to expect so they can plan. The Government has no right to play a waiting game and hope the drought will break, while stock is dying and good Australian graziers are facing ruin. It must also be remembered that during the last drought the Government subsidy was paid only to the New South Wales border. This was very unjust because far out places have a common bond with other States, and it is often necessary to travel through other States to reach markets or agistment areas. I will give an example. The north eastern portion of the Western Division has a common bond with Queensland, and the south western division has a common bond with Victoria. Stock from south west Queensland has to travel through New South Wales - through the Bourke area - to reach markets or agistment areas. I remind honourable members that these places are in Australia and that during good years the people there have paid millions of dollars into the revenue of both State and Commonwealth governments. Today one cannot find out whether the State or the Federal government is holding up payment of a subsidy. Surely each Government has an obligation to make a complete statement on such a tragic problem. 
I move away now from the drought problem to deal with other difficulties in rural industry in remote areas. There the cost price squeeze is much more severe. We have already heard in this Parliament how bad the situation is in top grade rural areas, but in addition to normal expenses facing members of rural industry in remote areas, extra expenses must be met. I refer to the expenses incurred in educating children who must be sent to boarding schools. Extra travelling expenses and living away from home costs are also involved. The present allowable tax deduction of $300 for education expenses for each child is inadequate. Travelling to consult doctors and specialists is also expensive. Many people in remote areas travel each year 500 or 600 miles and receive no taxation allowance for the added expense. In many areas telephone charges are too high. It is well known that a housewife living in a remote area is much more contented if she can ring up her mother once or twice a week. Such comforts are getting out of reach of most people in country areas. 
I have had many complaints from farmers about trunk line charges. During the summer months these people suffer the discomfort of excessive heat. If government supporters were sincere about decentralisation they would urge the Federal Government to make a special grant so that schools in hot outback areas could be supplied with air conditioning or some other form of cooling. The sales tax payable on air conditioning units should be lifted on those sold to people living in such areas. I refer especially to pensioners. 
I am not blaming the Government for all the problems of rural industry. However, I do say to Government supporters who keep harping about all the things the Government is doing for rural industry that something should be done for the people in my electorate. They are the people who are most in need of assistance. Much has been said by the Federal and State governments about air pollution. Yet it appears to me that in many cases the governments are the chief offenders. I have often seen government buses blowing out great clouds of smoke. I have been told by mechanics that most of the smoke could be eliminated if the buses were taken out of service long enough for them to be properly maintained. But of course, it is more important to the governments to keep them running. Air pollution seems to be only a secondary consideration. 
This fact was brought home to the people of Broken Hill recently in no uncertain manner. I would like to tell honourable members how the people of Broken Hill overcame their air pollution problem and how, through lack of consideration by State and Federal governments, many years of good work have been undone in a few months. Sections of Broken Hill are now the worst polluted areas in Australia. For many years of Broken Hill's early existence it suffered from a very severe form of air pollution. This was due partly to overstocking on the common and the fact that right on the edge of town was another menace in the form of skimp dumps, the residue of the mill treatment plants on the mine. An attack was made on this problem. A green belt was made right around the town and fenced to keep out stock. The dumps were effectively sealed. Broken Hill became one of the most dust-free cities in Australia, but of course this was changed by the State and Federal governments. 
When the Indian-Pacific railway service went through Broken Hill, the governments moved in the biggest assortment of earth moving equipment that any country town or city has ever seen. Big skimp dumps containing millions of tons of skimp were pushed all over the place. By doing the job this way probably millions of dollars were saved on the cost of the project, but what happened to the people? The people living in this area had their floor coverings and furniture ruined. Business people lost dollars in stock and business. A report in the 'Barrier Miner' gives some idea of how severe is this problem. Approaches have been made to both the State and Commonwealth Governments for some form of compensation for these people. But what do we find? The old shunting game! The Commonwealth authorities say that they know the situation is bad but that it is a State responsibility, and the State has probably worked out its way of dodging responsibility. I believe in progress, but why should the people who can least afford it have to pay the price? In my opinion this Government saved millions of dollars by using this method. [Extension of time granted] Therefore the Government is under some obligation to see that these people receive compensation for the damage done to their property, even if it gives them nothing for their personal suffering. 
I believe that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has been very inconsistent. I am told that he was an enthusiastic member of the Chowilla Promotion Committee and that he supported every proposal brought down by it. Tonight he said that honourable members on this side of the House are using this project as a means of political promotion. Yet in 1963 members of his Party used it in their election campaign. It is very noticeable that tonight this debate was brought on at a time when the proceedings are not being broadcast, although South Australia is vitally interested in this question. The honourable member accuses Opposition members of being careful of what they say because the people in South Australia would find out about it. We on this side of the House would have been pleased if the debate had been broadcast so that the people of South Australia could have heard it. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I am opposed to the adoption of this Bill in its present form because it clearly indicates the lack of concern for people in far inland country centres. I refer particularly to those people who are vitally concerned with the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement. These people were anxiously waiting for the termination of the Agreement because they felt that in the light of experience gained during the 7 years the Agreement has been in operation they had every justification to expect and demand a better agreement to protect the waters of the Menindee storage. As this Bill states, the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement was only a temporary measure. As a matter of fact it was an agreement for a period of 7 years and it was anticipated that Chowilla would have been completed and operating in that time. This Agreement provided for releases from the Menindee storage so that the River Murray Commission could use the water in excess of 390,000 acre feet. It must be remembered that the storage was designed for over 2 million acre feet. Yet the River Murray Commission has an option on all water over 390,000 acre feet. 
It is anyone's guess when Chowilla will be built and the purposes of this Bill are to set aside that project in order to build Dartmouth. If the Government were to show any consistency here it could be expected to extend the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement for another 7 years while Dartmouth was being completed. But it has not done this because, like Chowilla, Dartmouth might not even be started in 7 years. In any case the River Murray Commission now has control of the Menindee Lakes storage and there is little chance of it handing over that control, regardless of what the people in the western part of New South Wales think. 
On looking at the map of New South Wales it can be seen that the Menindee Lakes are the only major water storage in the western part of New South Wales and to hand over control of this water to the River Murray Commission, as stated in the terms of this Bill, is a serious disregard for the welfare of the citizens of this area. It has already been stated on good authority that plans for New South Wales waterways show that the Darling River may be reduced to a trickle and will depend on the annual rainfall. Little water will come from its tributaries in New South Wales because in future many of its valleys and rivers from which water now flows into the Darling will have their own dams, weirs or some other form of storage which will eventually dry up the natural flow into the Darling River. Figures from the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission show that in the 79 years before 1965 the average flow of the Darling River at Wilcannia was approximately 2,420,000 acre feet. Yet, in 1965, the figure was only 87,000 acre feet. For 1967, it was 590,000 acre feet. In 1968, it was 935,000 acre feet. The figure in 1968 is little more than one third of the average for 79 years before 1965. 
In the 79 years before 1965, we had many periods of drought. Even the brochure put out by the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission of New South Wales states that the flow in the Darling River has ceased completely on several occasions. I am told that the records at Wilcannia show that in 1902 and again in 1919 the river ceased to flow for 12 consecutive months. Of course, we have had great floods that have built up the average, but the question ls: How long, in the years to come, will the period be that the Darling stops flowing in dry years because we have dams and weirs which have been built on its tributaries? It must stop flowing for longer periods than it has in the past. 
If ample storage is not left in the Menindee Lakes, this must affect the supply to Broken Hill and through the 294 miles of the Great Anna Branch and the many grazing properties that depend upon this water, as well as the 480 miles of the lower Darling River and the grazing properties in that area. It always has been assumed that, if the Darling River stopped flowing, the supplies to Broken Hill and these other places could be drawn from the Menindee Lakes storage. This Bil) does not indicate that enough water will be available in the storage should the Darling River stop flowing. It seems to indicate that, if there is a slow flow in the Darling River and the Murray is low at the same time, the River Murray Commission will draw on Menindee Lakes water. It is my intention to put forward some facts and to make some comparisons to justify these statements. 
The first water was stored at Menindee in 1960. In 1962. the project was filled. On 22nd May 1962, a break occurred adjacent to the Cawndilla Lake outlet regulator. Over 1,500,000 acre feet of water escaped before the Cawndilla could be isolated from the scheme. The outlet regulator was completely wrecked. That has now been completely rebuilt. However, Cawndilla Lake has a bed level of 179 feet while Menindee Lake has a bed level of 1 84 feet. This means that the Cawndilla Lake has 5 feet of water when the Menindee Lake is dry. The Menindee Lake dried up in April 1965 and no suitable amount of water for fishing or recreation purposes was in the lake until December 1969. This means that the lake, as far as useful purposes were concerned, was dry for over  A  years. 
It must be remembered that it was not filled for the first time until 1962. The designed storage of the scheme was 2,250,000 acre feet but, due to the Cawndilla failure, the approved storage now is only 1,500,000 acre feet. At the present time, it contains 87% of this amount. These facts and figures make it appear that the Menindee Lakes storage is only a second grade water scheme but this is far from the truth. Experts and people with great knowledge of waterways believe that it has a very bright future so long as the water is released wisely. The people of my electorate have shown confidence in the future of this water scheme as the following facts indicate. 
On the north side of the Menindee Lake, we have a village called Sunset Strip. This contains 60 cottages valued from $4,500 to $12,000. Around these cottages, an area of 600 acres is fully fenced. Water is laid on and a tree planting programme is in progress. Apart from the cost of the cottages and the fact that a good deal of this work has been done by volunteers, the estimated expenditure on this area alone was $50,000. At Copi Hollow, which forms part of the connecting channel, we have a speed boat club with 80 registered boats, club houses, cottages and amenities and the estimated expenditure on this area alone was S70,000. The Menindee Lake Park Recreation Area has accommodation for 5,000 persons on an organised picnic day. lt has high class tourist facilities, ablution blocks, shelter sheds, supervisor's home, modern kiosk, lawns and trees, and it also has 600 acres fenced in with water and power supplied. The estimated expenditure to date is in excess of $100,000. 
The overall plan is to develop this area to the value of $500,000. If honourable members add all these things together, they will understand the amount of work and money that has gone into developing this area. Because of this work in developing the area, it has been estimated that the number of visitors to the Menindee Lakes scheme in 1968 was 61,000 people. Of course, it is a good thing that the people in this area have these amenities and it is also a good thing that we are able to attract tourists in order to make this scheme financially successful. 
The township of Menindee itself has a very active progress committee and the people with market gardens now have formed their own co-operatives. All these people are very concerned that the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement, which has been a temporary measure pending completion of Chowilla, now is to be continued indefinitely, as slated in this Bill. But we notice that the River Murray Commission in its annual report states that the Agreement will be continued in perpetuity. 1 have not heard any of these people complain about a quantity of water being released to flush down the Anna Branch so that the graziers along the 294 miles of the Anna Branch can have a fresh water supply. No-one complains that a certain amount of water should go 480 miles down the Darling to supply the people lower down with a better class of water. 
The people of this area are good Australians. They accept the fact that release may have to be made from the Menindee Lakes storage while Chowilla is being built in order to keep an adequate supply of water in the lower Murray. Perhaps some justification would exist to extend the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement until Dartmouth is in operation; but to say that this Agreement should be continuated indefinitely shows how much concern this Government has for the people who are doing great things to develop inland Australia. 
Many of these people have made a lifelong study of the flow of the Darling River and the flow of the Murray River. They are of the opinion that, once Dartmouth is completed, little water would be required from the Menindee storage for an adequate supply in the lower Murray. What the people are really worried about is the little sentence that appears at the bottom of page 8 of the circulated copy of the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  It reads: 
At that time it was also agreed to adopt an operational procedure for salinity control in the river which has been found effective in recent years, and this is dealt with in clause 22. I might mention that while this clause refers only to control of salinity upstream of South Australia, this is on the basis of control below that point being handled by releases from Lake Victoria . . . 
It goes no to say: 
. and if necessary from the Menindee Lakes storage. 
It should be obvious to anyone, because of the geographical situation of Chowilla, that should the River Murray require flushing to remove salinity it would be easy to release the water from the Chowilla dam. It would be ridiculous to release water from the Dartmouth dam, 1,000 miles away, to flush the River Murray because after travelling that distance the salinity of the water would be greater than that of the water in the lower Murray. It is quite apparent that the obvious place from which the water would come would be the Menindee Lakes storage. 
The Minister might say that these fears are groundless and that there is no intention to take water out of the Menindee storage if this would affect the usefulness of the scheme. 1 remind him again that the brochure from the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission states that the Darling River has ceased flowing completely on many occasions. The longest period was 11 months. I am told that records at Wilcannia show that on 2 occasions - in 1902 and 1919  -  it ceased to flow for a period of 12 consecutive months. All honourable members know that the Menindee storage was filled in 1962; yet the Menindee Lake dried up in April 1965 and stayed that way until December 1969. It might be said that 390,000 acre feet of water is a lot of water and should be ample to supply Broken Hill and the people along the Anna Branch and the lower Darling River. 
It must be remembered that this amount of water would be stored in an area built to cover over 2 million acre feet of water. It is known also that the shallower the water is the greater is the percentage of impurities. This fact was brought home in no uncertain manner in recent months. It became necessary to flush the Anna Branch 2 months before the recognised time because it had become poisonous due to a build-up of algae. It was necessary to make an earlier release. The question arises: How much of this 390,000 acre feet of water in the Menindee Lakes storage would be usable and for how long would it be usable? The people who depend on that storage claim that that is not a safe level, that the figure of 390,000 acre feet should be increased substantially especially if the releases of water from the Menindee Lakes scheme are not being used to supply an adequate amount of water to the lower Murray but only to adjust the salinity content in the river in the absence of the Chowilla storage. 
I speak for the people of my electorate. This Bill should provide assurances on these matters. It also should state that no release is to be made from the Menindee storage for any purpose if such release would lower the Menindee Lakes below the level of 14 feet. I support my colleagues in the Opposition in saying that Chowilla dam and Dartmouth dam should be built at the same time. 

 Mr TURNBULL (Mallee) 19.24]-! do not want to enter into a debate on the fine points of water conservation for the simple reason that I am not an expert in this field. If I had just entered this House after coming from some other country I would have thought that most of the speakers tonight were experts in this regard. I think they will admit that, unlike engineers or members of the River Murray Commission, they do not know much about water conservation and are relying on what they have been told by other people. 1 want to rebut one or two things that have been said. I will deal first with what was said by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I did nol hear him say that he was against the construction of the Chowilla dam; I heard him say that probably it would be built at some later stage. What he did not like was the fact that the Opposition is holding the project to ransom. The Opposition is saying that if the Government does not build Chowilla dam now in conjunction with Dartmouth dam then it will not allow the construction of Dartmouth dam. That is what is happening. Noone can deny that this is what the Opposition is doing. The Opposition says that it wants the two dams to be built at the same time. Therefore if the Chowilla dam is not built at the same time as the Dartmouth dam then neither are to be built. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister respond to the challenge issued by the honourable member for Riverina in the adjournment debate last night and tell the House how much wheat of the 1969-70 crop has been handled outside the Australian Wheat Board? I refer particularly to interstate sales. Will be also tell the House how much wheat is still being held on farms because farmers do not know if. when and how much they will be paid if it is delivered? 
asked the Minister lor Shipping and Transport upon notice: 
How many miles of railway tracks in each Australian Stale have not yet been converted to the standard gauge system. 
What is the estimated cost of conversion to standard gauge in each State. 
What plans are under consideration tor such standardisation programmes. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  I do so for a different reason from the one mentioned by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  when he said that the honourable member for Denison was in favour of the use of the gag. I am very much opposed to the use of the gag. As a matter of fact, it is one of the reasons why I have risen to my feet. It appears to me that many people in this House, once they have had their say, do not worry very much about anybody else. I believe that the questions of sitting cycles, sitting hours and times for each  speaker  are closely related. When the question of changing the sittings from a 4-week cycle to a 3-week cycle was being debated last week, many honourable members were kind enough to mention the problems of the member for Darling. I am very grateful for that. If I have to stay here on Friday night, it is Sunday morning before I can get home. But I am quite prepared to accept these things. When 1 stood for the job 1 realised that this was a part of it. 
But I am more concerned to ensure that during the sittings of this House I am given the same opportunity as anyone else to put my views before honourable members. I believe that in this regard J have reason to complain because I consider that up to this stage I have not had that opportunity, ft appears to me that some of the very capable speakers are also very long-winded. The honourable member for Bradfield mentioned the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  He said that the honourable member for Grayndler always looked at the clock and used up his full time. At least we can say that the honourable member for Grayndler is amusing and that he does keep honourable members awake. But many other honourable members go over the same point time and time again. Honourable members were very selfrighteous when discussing the sitting cycles. They said that the change was being made for legitimate reasons; that they wanted to get back to their electorates and they wanted to serve the people they represent. I hope that tonight they will be just as self-righteous and will show some consideration for the people who are not getting a fair go here. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to some of the problems I have had. The night 1 stood up to make my maiden speech, I was told that the debate was closed. I had to get up during the adjournment debate and therefore I had 10 minutes instead of 25 minutes in which to speak. The next time I tried to speak was during a debate on the drought problem which was raised in this House as a matter of public importance. There was a drought in my electorate. I had been out in my electorate and discussed this problem and I think I had some knowledge of it. But here again we saw the same longwinded speakers taking up the time of the House. I am only using that word because the other word I should use in its place will not come to me. But these honourable members certainly took their time and I was denied the right to put the case of the people of my electorate. 
The next occasion concerned the matter of 4 weeks annua] leave. Here again 1 think I have probably bad as much experience in this sphere as anyone in the House but I was again denied the right to put before the Parliament the case for 4 weeks leave. I do not think this is in the best interests of this Government or of Australia. I think that at times honourable members have over-played their right to speak at length and I think that this current move is a step in the right direction. I ask honourable members tonight to think of some of the back bench members who are not getting a chance to speak in this House. I can assure honourable members that if they give me the opportunity to speak I will not abuse it because like the honourable member on the Government side who spoke previously I am not speaking to get my name in Hansard. All I want to do is to get an opportunity to put the case of the people I represent. 

 Mr JARMAN (Deakin) [11.321-1, too, will be brief but I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  on what he has just said. 1 think there are many of us in this House who have been in a similar position. We have spent perhaps a whole weekend doing research and preparing a speech only to be told that we cannot go on. I think one has only to look at the recent debate on the Budget to appreciate the position. There are 65 members on this side of the House; 35 of them were able to speak and 30 were not. I do not know whether they all wanted to speak, but had they wanted to do so they would not have had the opportunity. I was one of those who was not able to speak. There are other honourable members in this House who can waffle on, taking their full time and selfishly preventing others from putting their views on the Budget. They are always the same people. One has only to come into this House and look at the empty benches to see how much honourable members are interested in what these people say. At one time I walked into the House and only the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  was sitting on the Government side and only 1 member was sitting on the Opposition side. 
I believe that the Barrier Industrial Council has been misrepresented. 
Yes. As a past Secretary of the Barrier Industrial Council, firstly, I think that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  misled the House when he spoke about the number of married women who are employed at Broken Hill. 
I will obey the law. I will ask for an opportunity to speak tomorrow night in the adjournment debate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and it concerns the $60m which is required to build up the price of wool to 36c per lb, and the very serious economic circumstances of country towns and the large number of unemployed in those areas. Will the Minister inform the House whether the Government intends to take steps to ensure that when the subsidy is paid to the wool brokers, it is not held by them to reduce the wool growers' debts to the brokers as this would leave little or no money for the growers to pay shire rates and country business houses, thereby relieving unemployment in country areas? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As a result of the recent amendment to the Superannuation Act as applied to retired public servants, (a) what was the highest gross annual increase and (b) what is now the gross annual income from superannuation of the person concerned. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
As a result of the recent amendment to the Superannuation Act, what was the number of (a) age, invalid and widow pensioners in the Commonwealth whose pensions were reduced as a result of the superannuation increases, (b) cases where his Department cancelled the medical benefits entitlements and (c) pensioners whose pensions were cancelled. 
My question is directed to the Acting Attorney-General. I ask: In view of the recent statements attributed to the Minister and the AttorneyGeneral concerning reform in the courts of petty sessions of the Australian Capital Territory, can the Minister inform the House whether any steps are being taken to dissociate policemen from those courts except where they appear as witnesses? Is it intended that the present police prosecutors should continue prosecuting while remaining members of the police force or are changes contemplated? 
It was my intention to concentrate my remarks on the Wine Overseas Marketing Bill and the Wine Grapes Charges Bill which are before the House but, in light of some of the statements made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and having regard to what has been happening to our rural industries during the last 23 years under LiberalCountry Party governments, I feel that I should at least refer to some of the statements which have been made. It must be remembered that effective planning by any sincere government may make adjustments necessary for the benefit of the national econ omy. Decisions that have been made by this Government have long term benefits but in the short term, in some areas, could be unpopular. Some decisions made by this Government have been unpopular in my electorate but I think that the average Australian realises that a national government has a responsibility to assist expanding industries and this often requires a reallocation of resources. In discussing these Bills I shall endeavour to point out areas where assistance to the wine industry and the dried vine fruit industry, which of course is closely allied, will have a far greater long term benefit both to these industries and to the nation as a whole. 
The Wine Grapes Charges Bill has as its purpose the conversion to metric measure of the definitions of a 'winery' and a 'distillery' and, in particular, for conversion into metric measure of the maximum rates of charges applicable to the grape intakes of these places under the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929- 1969. The Bill proposes changing the imperial system of quantity of 10 tons to the nearest rational metric quantity of 10 tonnes. It provides also for an increase of about l.Sc in the maximum rate of charges. As the funds raised under the Wine Grapes Charges Act account for the whole of the income of the Australian Wine Board no one should object to this small increase, providing that other sections of the industry are viable and are run economically. To ascertain this I believe k is necessary for us to examine what has been happening in the wine industry over the last few years. 
Since 1965 there has been a boom in the wine industry. As has been stated in this House, wine consumption has been increasing at the rate of from 10 to 11 per cent per annum. Of course, this has resulted in large scale investment by large companies in wineries. It has also resulted in increases in the plantings of dual purpose grapes as well as the wine varieties. However, a complicating factor was the introduction of the 50c excise duty. Consumption fell as a result of its introduction from 24 million gallons in 1969-70 to 22 million gallons in 1970-71 - a drop of almost 9 per cent. Following the reduction of the excise duty last year we heard reports of improved sales figures. However, the sections handling bulk wines and fortified wines did not improve. As a matter of fact, the consumption of fortified wines declined. Those responsible for growing wine grapes had problems marketing them. 
The dried fruits industry would have felt the effects had good seasons prevailed because the dual purpose grapes would have reverted to the dried fruits industry. It should be also kept in mind that the stabilisation scheme introduced in 1971 would have been of little assistance to these people because of the limit of $23 a ton on the bounty to be paid. That bounty had a limit of 75,000 tons. The Australian Dried Fruits Association estimated that the production of dried sultanas would be in the vicinity of 90,000 tons. In 1967 fresh weight diversion of dual purpose sultanas to wineries amounted to 17,134 tons. By 1969 the fresh weight diversion had risen to 56,087 tons. The dried fruit industry would have been in great danger if all of those dual purpose sultanas had been diverted to the dried fruit industry. 
It must be remembered that markets are not the only thing that affect the wine and dried fruit growers. The flow and the quality of the water in their streams affects production. I have already mentioned in this House the Victorian Government's action in pumping saline water from Barr Creek and Lake Hawthorn into evaporation pans. The Federal Government made provision for finance for this purpose. Some of this finance was used to cut a channel back from these storage points into the Murray River. During high rivers this high content saline water was allowed to run back into the Murray River. I believe that this practice is still being carried on. It was very heartening to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  state here today that a report on this matter will be brought down shortly. When it is examining this problem I ask the Government to consider also making provision for long term low interest loans to the older established blocks for the provision of overhead sprinkling systems. I believe that a new committee has just been set up in the area to examine this problem. It revealed the startling figures that in the irrigation watering system the standard runoff amounts to between 8 gallons and 10 gallons a minute whereas under the sprinkler system it amounts to only 1 gallon to 2 gallons a minute. 
Another problem facing the growers is the size of their fruit blocks. After the First World War soldier settlement blocks were from 14 acres to 17 acres. However, it had been found that with modern methods of irrigation this acreage is not large enough. It is hoped that the Government will divert to this area some of the finance that has been allocated for rural reconstruction. One of the greatest problems facing the wine- and. the dried fruit industry at present is the marketing system. I refer to the report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year 1971-1972 which states: 
Under Section 13 of the Act, the following number of licences by States, to export Dried Fruits, have been issued under the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry on the recommendation of the Board for the year ending 28 February 1973; Victoria 21; New South Wales- 15; South Australia  -  11; Western Australia  -  10; and Queensland - 3. 
A total of 60 export licences have been issued. 
Wherever one goes in dried fruit areas one hears charges and counter-charges of what occurs in the export marketing of dried fruits. I believe that the Government has a responsibility to establish the facts concerning the present marketing system. I am not saying that the present marketing system should be changed, but certainly we should have the facts. It is impossible to obtain the facts at present. We should set up a commission to investigate the marketing of dried fruits. Such a body could not only inquire into the present marketing structure but also study proposals for improvement. One such is the single statutory marketing concept. This concept is widely discussed in dried fruit areas. The Government should give some consideration to it. I believe that such a commission should hand down a recommendation showing the most effective system of marketing these products. 
I wish also to support the Wine Overseas Marketing Bill which provides for the conversion to metric measure of the definition of what constitutes a winery and a distillery for the purposes of the requisition of a poll and voting under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966. The Australian dietary pattern is ensuring a greater domestic consumption of wine. Australia grows some of the best wines. Providing that the consumer recognises the high quality of our wines and are able to establish a sound marketing system, I believe that the wine industry will continue to prosper in spite of some of the new prophets of doom whom we now have in our midst. 
At the same time I wish to point out that the welfare of the nation cannot be maintained or extended without decentralisation. The Government should be conscious that the growth of population and employment must not all be created in city areas. More agencies of the Government must be enlisted to ensure that greater growth occurs in country areas. I believe that, if the Government adopts some of the recommendations which I have been requested to put forward by the growers in my electorate, we will move in this direction. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour, upon notice: 
How many man days were lost on account of strike action in each of the 3 States controlled by Labor Governments compared with the 3 States controlled by anti-Labor Governments during the last month for which he has statistics. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Bureau of Mineral Resources is conducting an aerial survey of the Broken Hill district. 
If so, what is the reason for the survey. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the debate the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said that I had claimed that he was not in his electorate. I want to correct the impression I may have given. I read a letter from a woman living at Collarenebri. She wrote about the honourable member's new electorate, but she was referring to me. The honourable member for Gwydir will understand that I was not referring to him if he reads the statement I made. I said I used all my chartered flight allowance to go to Collarenebri to see the spur throated locusts. That clearly indicated that I knew the woman was speaking about me. I went up there again to see the hospital. I would not say that the honourable member for Gwydir was not in his electorate because I have been out there with him on several occasions. Of course I knew he was there. The point I make is that I was not making an attack on the honourable member for Gwydir. I do not think any member of this House could ever accuse me of making a personal attack on anyone. 
-! claim to have been misrepresented,  Mr Speaker.  I was here on the evening in question. I wish to deny the statement by the honourable member for New England, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  that provision was made for members to return home. I was left in Adelaide, and after a considerable lapse of time I had to make arrangements for an Avis car to get me to my house. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the nature of the surveys being undertaken on leases held by Australian Mining and Smelting in Broken Hill by officers of the CSIRO. 
How long will the surveys take. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to review the Health Insurance Act to close the loophole whereby insurance companies can claim for straightforward medical costs of injured workers, and avoid calling on their workers' compensation insurance cover. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Corporation, since opening its office in New York in 1 975, has sold a quantity of wool in the United States at less than the reserve price paid at auction in Australia; if so, what quantity has been sold, and at what price. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What has been the result of a pilot study carried out for 3 months from May 1975 by family planning advisers who were attached to the Royal Flying Doctor Service in Broken Hill, Mt Isa and Kalgoorlie. 
Will he make the details of the findings available. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it expected that Broken Hill and its telephone district will get subscriber trunk dialling facilities. 
Has the delay been caused through expenditure cuts made on the coaxial cable project linking South Australia with Moree earth station. 
Will recent expenditure cuts mean a further delay in bringing this facility to Broken Hill. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he supply the latest estimates of foreign ownership and control of Australia's mineral resources showing by nationality, sector and value of production the percentage ownership and /or control. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the River Murray Working Party presented its final report to the Department. 
If so, when will it be tabled in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What programs in progress and/or planned in the Electoral Division of Darling will be affected by expenditure cuts in 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What consideration has been given by his Department to a proposal that the Army carry out a ground survey of a proposed north-south road linking southern Australian with the north from Mildura through Broken Hill and Tibooburra on to Boulia in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What arrangements have been made, or planned, to have his Department represented in rural areas which have been served in the past by offices of the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
Will the new Department of Employment and Industrial Relations continue to act in matters of citizenship interviews and passport applications. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it expected that a television repeater station being erected at Menindee, New South Wales, will be brought into service. 
Will reviews of expenditure announced by him affect the commissioning of this facility. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the provision of 2 community nurses at Narromine. New South Wales, made under any scheme administered by his Department. 
If so, what financial support has been made available. 
3 ) What are the terms of the support. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Has a commitment by the previous Government to finance up to 25 per cent ($125,000) of the cost of a Tourist and Travellers ' Centre at Broken Hill been withdrawn. 
If so, what is the reason for the withdrawal. 
Did the New South Wales Government agree to provide 25 per cent if the Commonwealth Government agreed to match it. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances must radio broadcast stations announce authorisations of political broadcasts. 
Do radio talk-back sessions conducted by a political party during air-time purchased by that party come within regulations governing authorisation announcements. 
What safeguards exist to ensure that the listener to a talk-back program solely sponsored by a political organisation is made aware that it is such, and not a normal unsponsored talk-back session. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the Sixty-third Conference of the InterParliamentary Union, held in Madrid between 23 September and 1 October 1976. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 63 national groups sent delegates to the sixty-third Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference, held in Madrid from 23 September to 1 October 1976. These national groups were represented by a total of 480 delegates as well as 179 advisers, Clerks of Parliament, group secretaries and 274 wives, plus observers from the United Nations Organisation and other national organisations, making a total in the vicinity of 1000 people from outside Madrid. The Spanish group proved themselves hospitable and capable hosts and, because of this, your delegation and the delegations from other national groups were able to promote the aims of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which is to promote personal contacts between members of all parliaments, constituted into national groups, and to unite them in common action to secure and maintain the full participation of their respective states in the firm establishment and development of representative institutions and in the advancement of the work of international peace and co-operation. Because our Australian Parliament supports these aims and the Australian Branch of the InterParliamentary Union is gaining increasing status amongst the groups, the Australian Parliament and Australians can be proud of the support our Parliament gives to the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
We express our appreciation to the Secretary and staff of our secretariat and to various public servants overseas for their support. We remind the Parliament that the spring meeting of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Union will be held in Canberra from 10 to 1 4 April 1 977. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What specific program changes have been made since the Budget to ABC regional radio networks in South Australia and New South Wales. 
) Which of them were made as a result ofthe Budget. 
What further changes are planned. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum has been received by the Government from the Australian Wool Corporation as repayment of its loan to operate the reserve price scheme to date. 
) Does he anticipate that the full $245m budgeted for in 1 976-77 will be recovered during 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the functions of the Plague Locust Commission. 
How many persons are employed by the Commission. 
What work in the field has been undertaken since the Commission was established. 
What measures are planned to control the present outbreaks of plague locusts throughout much of South Eastern Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Did Commonwealth outlays on the aged take 8.6 per cent ofthe Budget or 2.1 per cent of gross domestic product in 1963-66. 
Is it a fact that 12.3 per cent of Budget outlays wenton the aged and 3.9 percent ofthe domestic product in 1 975-76. 
3 ) What percentage of total Budget outlays was allocated for the aged in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What country mail services have been cut out or reduced in frequency in the electoral division of Darling since January 1976. 
) What were the reasons for the changes in each case. 
What procedures does the Postal Commission follow when it wishes to alter mail services to country residents. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) How many positions were created by the Regional Employment Development Scheme in the Electoral Division of Darling under all projects which received approval. 
What sum was paid in salaries and wages under these projects. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
In the light of the extremely successful half-year to 31 December 1976 of Telecom Australia, is he prepared to request Telecom to review charges for rural telephone extensions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What percentage of total roads in the electoral division of Darling are classified as (a) urban arterial, (b) urban local, (c) rural arterial and (d) rural local. 
What funds were made available by the Commonwealth to New South Wales in each category for 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What funds will be allocated to New South Wales for each category in 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) ls the speed of the Indian Pacific passenger train between Broken Hill, New South Wales, and Peterborough, South Australia, governed by air termperatures 
2 ) If so. what temperatures cause reduction in speed. 
How many times have high temperatures caused the train to be driven at slower than normal speeds over this section of its journey during the summer of 1976-77. 
4 ) What maintenance is carried out and what inspections are made of the track in the normal course of a year. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
Has the Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit requirement of a twice-weekly visit by a nurse been relaxed for people living in remote areas. 
If so, how many applicants have received benefit as a result of the relaxation of the requirement. 
3 ) In what areas have the applicants lived. 
What definition of remote areas is used by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the average weekly number of claims handled by Medibank through its offices in (a) Broken Hill, (b) Mildura and (c) Whyalla. 
What is the average size of claims in dollar terms handled in each of these centres. 
What percentage of claims is estimated to be handled by the Broken Hill office compared with all claims made by Broken Hill residents. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Are statistics kept on industrial disputes in major Australian centres of population. 
If so, (a) how many days were lost, (b) what was the number of stoppages and (c) what was the amount of wages lost as a result of industrial action in Broken Hill, New South Wales, in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Are income tax assessments subject to extraordinary delays in New South Wales. 
If so, are these delays the result of staff reductions and /or shortages. 
Are delays in providing assessments or clearances for tax to the date of death causing hardship to many people who are beneficiaries of deceased estates being handled by the Broken Hill Branch of the Public Trusts Office of New South Wales. 
If so, will he inquire into the delays with a view to expediting assessments, especially those involving deceased estates. 
-I wish to add my support to all the wonderful remarks that have been made about our friend and colleague,  Mr Rex  Connor. I had a very close association with Rex during the period of the likely closure of the South Mine at Broken Hill. I also had long discussions with Rex on the effects that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill would have on his support for small mines. I am quite sure that if the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill had not been challenged at law the South Mine at Broken Hill would have remained open a lot longer than it did. Of course, the possibilities in the event of its remaining open were untold. There is a great body of ore there. It may be that more would have been discovered if it had remained open. No one knows what wealth would have come out of it. Rex really appreciated that aspect. He assured me that if the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill had become law he would have lent some support to the mines at Broken Hill. On behalf of all the miners at Broken Hill and all his other friends in the 
Darling electorate I would like to convey my sincere condolences to his family, relatives and many friends. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it the Government's intention to dispose of the Australian Government's Engine Works at Port Melbourne. 
If so, what are the changed circumstances that would make the Government consider the Engine Works no longer a national defence asset. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1) Is it a fact that television, in the form of video-taped programs, is to be introduced on the Indian-Pacific passenger train. 
If so, in what pan of the train will it be available to passengers. 
What measures are planned to ensure that passengers not wishing to watch television will not be inconvenienced. 
Who will be responsible for programming. 
Will programming be sponsored in the form of advertising or will it be paid for as a surcharge paid by passengers wishing to use the facility en route. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
What are the names of the companies which are required to notify price changes to the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Can he say how many staff are employed in Australia in computer data processing at present. 
What is the anticipated extra staff requirement in 1978. 
What proportion of the extra staff will be trained in Australia. 
What proportion will be recruited from overseas. 
How many students have been denied the opportunity to become data processors due to the shortage of graduate and post-graduate diploma courses in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) Is the experimental program using a South American beetle to control water hyacinth still continuing. 
If so, is the beetle proving a success in controlling river weed. 
What contribution has the Commonwealth Government made in funding this particular project which is under the charge of  Dr Ken  Harley of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in Brisbane. 
What other experiments are taking place. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  said he would represent that division after the next election. I sympathise with him because of the way in which he had to vote tonight but my generosity does not extend as far as conceding that point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Prompted by the Government's generosity in relation to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, I give notice that at the next sitting I shall present a Bill for an Act to grant financial assistance to New South Wales in relation to Cobar Mines Pry Ltd. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) How many Australians have been retrenched due to the Government adopting Industries Assistance Commission recommendations. 
What was the total length of time these persons remained out of work. 
How many IAC Commissioners have been sent overseas at the taxpayers expense, and how many will travel overseas in 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in his speech to the annual conference of the Proprietary Sugar Millers Association on 27 February 1977, that revenue forgone already by tax reforms exceeded $2000m annually.  were circulated: 
If so, will he provide a breakdown of the forgone revenue in the categories mentioned by him, (a) personal tax indexation, (b) new arrangements for Commonwealth estate duty, (c) the new system of income equalisation deposits for farmers, (d) the 40 per cent investment allowance, (e) incentives for the mining industry, (f) the easing of distribution requirements for private companies and (g) trading stock valuations. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) At what locations overseas is wool being stockpiled by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
How much wool is being stockpiled at these sites. 
What percentage of all wool stored is stored overseas. 
How many months supply does each stockpile represent in terms of use by the buyer country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that 1978 application forms for assistance to parents of isolated children ask whether the applicant resides in Tax Zone A or B. 
If so, is this request a new requirement. 
What significance is attached to the location of the applicant in relation to tax zones. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) Are members of the Unofficial Postmasters ' Association seeking an increase in their rate of pay from Telecom Australia. 
Is tremendous work undertaken by members of the Association in providing a vital communications link in remote parts of Australia. 
3 ) Is it considered that the payment of $ 1 .60 an hour (40c an hour between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m.) is adequate recompense for these persons. 
In view of the massive profit of $99m announced by Telecom, will he urge Telecom to spend some of this profit in lifting the rates of pay for unofficial postmasters and in doing so ensure that vital communication links in the outback are maintained. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
What steps have been taken to register chiropractors to assist low income families with chiropractic fees and to carry out the recommendation of the committee of inquiry set up to report to the Whitlam Government on chiropractic, osteopathy and naturopathy. 
The pig producers have asked why they cannot get some direct statement from Federal members along these lines.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you think that I am overemphasising the lack of information in this area I want to draw your attention to the Industries Assistance Commission report and to what it had to say on this point. On page 53 of the report entitled 'Financing Rural Research' dated 25 June 1976, the Commission said: 
Whilst it is obvious that the returns from research are relevant in determining the optimum level of research, it is not often realised that a clear distinction must be drawn between average returns and marginal returns. The fact that average return per dollar of existing expenditure is high does not necessarily mean that the return per dollar of additional expenditure will also be high. 
This highlights my point that if we increase the levy and spend more money it will not automatically mean that we will get a higher return. The Industries Assistance Commission has pointed that out. The report further states: 
Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the Commission received a number of suggestions to the effect that more money should be spent on rural research in certain areas. What was surprising was that a number of witnesses were not well informed of the assistance currently available, of the channels through which assistance should be sought and of the nature and scope of current research in the same field. In certain cases, financial requests were only peripheral to rural research. 
Here again the Commission is pointing out that we should have more information. Further on in the report the Commission states: 
Government could use compulsion - 
This is a compulsory levy- by imposing increased research levies on producers. It would also require that the magnitude of direct benefits to farmers be clearly established as being in excess of the research costs imposed on farmers and some estimate would be needed of external benefits. It may be that a long run increase in research levies will be in the national interest and in the interest of farmers. 
Having regard to the facts put before this House by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and in the IAC report it is clear that not enough information has been given to this House in the past. We should have available some comparison between the industry output and input, and information on what happens to these funds. The Opposition is not opposed to the increased levies if the increases are justified. We on this side have taken notice of the reports of the IAC and this House should take notice of them also. If we set up commissions the Parliament should take notice of their reports and be guided by them, and that is the basis of our objection tonight. These levies may be in order but the Parliament should know why it is necessary to increase the levies. Producers and other involved in the industry also should know what these funds provide for them. 
I should like to point out to the House tonight how a member who does some research in order to make a speech to this Parliament can get into trouble from two different directions. I refer to the debate on the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill last week when I was trying to point out the effect that the quantity of water available has on pig breeding. You will no doubt recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I was reminded of the need to relate my remarks to the Bill. Later on in my speech I referred to echium plantagineum commonly known as paterson 's curse or salvation jane, which was badly affecting the pig industry, according to information I had from people in my electorate. I said that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation had imported insects which were intended to control the plant biologically. However, because, the beekeepers had protested there was a hold-up. 
Last night I received a phone call from a person intimating that I did not know what I was talking about and informing me that the beekeepers were not objecting to the elimination of the plant. I have here my file on this matter and I do know what I am talking about. I have a letter from the Commercial Apiarists' Association of New South Wales objecting to the elimination of salvation jane. I did not have a great deal of time to explain this to the man on the phone because we more or less locked horns. I do not know whether I took him the wrong way, but he asked me to write to him. I said that if he wrote to me I would reply. He had rung me and I had tried to explain the matter to him but he would not tell me what he was really after. However, I think I do owe him an explanation. I want to read a few passages from the correspondence I had to indicate that the beekeepers are opposed to the elimination of this plant. The letter commences: 
We wish to draw your attention to the attached copies of correspondence in regard to a matter which, in our opinion, will result in the decline and, possibly, the eventual failure of the honey industry in New South Wales and other States. 
We wish to draw your attention to the attached copies of correspondence in regard to a matter which, in our opinion, will result in the decline and, possibly, the eventual failure of the Honey Industry in New South Wales and other States. 
It is proposed that the CSIRO should be permitted to release one or even two imported insects which, we understand, are currently in Quarantine, for the purpose of biologically controlling the plant Echium  plantagineum  commonly known as Patterson 's Curse or Salvation Jane. 
The letter continues: 
We submit therefore that action must be taken to prevent the liquidation of the Honey Industry by bureaucratic mismanagement. This is based on the following facts that the Weeds 
Committee, Department of Agriculture and CSIRO, have seen fit to ignore. 
Should the insect/s be released to biologically control a plant, whose estimated value to the Honey Industry is in excess of $3.3 million annually at a time when exports have dropped from $11.3 million 1973-76 to only $6.5 million 1 976-77 then the Honey Industry is doomed to disaster. 
Honourable members can see from that that the honey industry is very concerned about the welfare of this plant. The letter continues: 
We readily accept that the plant is toxic to pigs, however, the degree of any type of foliage within the immediate bounds of today's piggery is virtually nil, and, is readily controlled by normal eradication processes such as tillage, etc. 
I do not have a good deal of time in this debate to explain the position. I hope that honourable members will take notice of this speech and that they will be tolerant when I am trying to put the details to explain the position. Members of this Parliament do come in for some criticism outside it if they do not fully explain the points which they are trying to make. 
I rise to associate myself with this motion of condolence on the passing of our friend and colleague, Frank Stewart. It was gratifying to me to hear the previous speakers mention their long years of association with Frank. Unfortunately, I barely knew 
Frank Stewart before I entered this Parliament but I want to say that it was very gratifying to find after I entered Parliament that we had many things in common. I can well remember with appreciation the many occasions that Frank invited me to go into his office and have a drink and discuss some particular matter. He was a thorough politician. He believed in fully analysing the things before Parliament, particularly the moral issues to which he had a great commitment. I appreciate very much the many things that he did for my electorate during the time he was Minister for Tourism and Recreation. On behalf of the people of the former electorate of Darling and the present electorate of Riverina, I express gratitude for the many things he did for them. It was with some satisfaction to me, although I am still deeply in his debt, that I was able to do something for him in return. He was a great friend and, I believe, a great member of this Parliament. I feel very sad at his passing. I offer my deepest sympathy to his loved ones. 
