My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does he subscribe to the principle of realistic conciliation before arbitration? If he does, will he institute inquiries in his own Department to ascertain whether it is a fact that the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, on behalf of its members in the Employment Division of the Department of Labour and National Service, has been trying to conciliate with both the Department and the Public Service Board for about 2 years? If his inquiries reveal that this is a fact, will he institute such action as is necessary to enable the conciliation process to be finalised and thus permit a long delayed a rbi ration case to be heard? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise, who is the Minister administering the Government's indigenous oil policy. Can the Minister tell the House whether he has any information relating to the wholesaling of petrol at very large discounts by oil companies in the Victorian metropolitan area? Is he aware of statements that the current practices being followed are jeopardising the livelihood of many service station operators and proprietors? How does the Minister reconcile the large discounts said to be available with reported statements that because of Bass Strait crude oil production the price of petrol could rise by as much as 6c per gallon? Finally, will he consider the advisability of establishing a royal commission to investigate all aspects of this very important industry? 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
How many reports of the Foreign Affairs Committee have been tabled in the House by the Minister for External Affairs each year since the Committee's formation. 
What subject or subjects were referred to in each report. 
How many meetings of the Committee have been held in each year. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Did he tell the Australian Finance Conference some days ago that, largely as a result of the large domestic surplus which the Government had built into the last Budget, the liquidity situation in the current quarter was tightening markedly and that money was becoming scarcer and dearer? If this is a fact, was the amount of S552m built into the Budget and was the Government's action deliberately designed to curtail liquidity for the purpose of restricting home building and the general development of the building industry? Will the Minister tell the Parliament how the Government proposes to use this domestic surplus? Is it a fact that the Government is working towards a further domestic surplus in the 1970-71 fiscal year. If so, why is it doing this in the present circumstances? 
We have a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Attorneys-General fixed, in anticipation, for 1 1th December. Could we not meet a day or two before that, in Adelaide? 
Is the Treasurer aware that recently a working housewife was fined for leaving her children unattended while she worked in industry? ls it a fact that section 51 of the Income Tax Act prescribes that all losses and outgoings to the extent to which they are incurred in gaining and/or producing assessable income are allowable deductions? Is the honourable gentleman aware that where a spouse works and employs a domestic servant the outgoing is interpreted as being an expense of a private and personal nature? In view of the magistrate's action in the case to which I have referred, will the Treasurer amend section 51 of the Act to provide that outgoings of income in the employment of domestics will become an allowable deduction for taxation purposes? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. I ask: Was the granting of a supplementary pension to the surviving partner of a married pensioner couple a year or two ago designed to allow the surviving pensioner to adjust his or her mode of living as a single pensioner? Was it ever intended that the money should fall into the hands of other authorities such as the Registrar of Coal Mine Workers Superannuation in New South Wales, to offset his liability to recipients of mine superannuation? If such was not the case will the Minister take the necessary action to restrain the Registrar from continuing to take from such pensioners amounts he deems to be his, as in the case I now have where the Registrar is asking one aged widow pensioner to refund to him S93.60 said to be owing for overpayment of pension. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I ask: Do the estimates show an anticipated domestic surplus of $633m in the current year? Does this imply, in the light of last year's surplus of $578m, that the heat in the Australian economy is rising as surpluses increase and that industry and home purchasers can expect no improvement in the economy in the foreseeable future? Was the investment of last year's surplus at between 5.5 per cent and 7 per cent necessary, in view of the fact that it has been invested in Commonwealth Government inscribed stock, or is that the most appropriate way of convincing the general public that the action of the Government in increasing interest rates a few months ago was justified? Alternatively, is this a case of robbing Peter to pay Paul? 
Not having taken part in the. Budget debate because of the limited time the Government placed on it, I am prompted to speak on the Treasury estimates simply to join issue with the Treasurer on the Government's monetary and fiscal policies. This Government has been in office for 21 years and in that period the country has had at least 17 bountiful seasons and rising prices for all types of production. The world has recovered from 2 world wars. Our population from immigration alone has increased by at least 3 million. Australia is experiencing the greatest resources explosion of any country, yet in terms of real human progress we are still thinking in terms of the horse and buggy days. Constitutionally in Australia an elected government of whatever political persuasion has unlimited and unfettered powers of monetary and fiscal policy. I believe there is evidence that shows that the present Government is prostituting that power to an alarming extent. That is why I am on my feet at the moment to protest at what T see and know. As an example, loan fund financing in a modem and well developed economy could always be of inestimable value to the community. On the other hand, loan fund finance used indiscreetly and extravagantly could and would destroy us both morally and nationally. But, of course, that is the sole responsibility of the centra) government. lt is a responsibility which LiberalCountry Party Governments absolutely shun. An example of this is with us right now. In Queensland a devastating drought is killing stock worth millions of dollars yet we let mice and weevils eat and destroy millions of tons of surplus wheat simply because no-one can work out a so-called economic solution to the wheat industry's problem. At the same time we are handing out millions of dollars to fanners as drought relief in specific areas and in other areas we are restricting the planting and growing of grain. How ridiculous can we be? The Australian Loan Fund is as old as the Constitution itself. In earlier years its use was extremely limited, especially by Labor Governments. I well remember that in the late 1920s and early 1930s Jack Lang was sacked from office and Ted Theodore held to public ridicule when in the depression years they had proposed that loan fund finance should be made available to the States to relieve unemployment and to use up the nation's surplus production. Apparently in that period loan fund finance was taboo in the hands of State Premiers or when devised by a Labor politician such as Ted Theodore.  His  proposition was that a ยฃ2()m issue of Treasury notes be made to create employment. It will be remembered that the Niemeyers and Guggenheim, called them fiduciary bills and no-one was game to accept responsibility for their issue. People remained unemployed while thousands starved. 
Today it is a different story. The loan fund is being used with impunity by the Government. But its benefits are not for the needy or the poor and flow only to the wealthy through profits from wars. Any concession that this Budget might hand out has already been eaten up in increased direct and indirect taxation, rising prices and increased interest rates. Taxes in all forms, including local government charges, continue to rise steeply and to erode wages and salaries despite the mammoth wealth in minerals and oil now being unearthed throughout the nation. The Treasury estimates are the Budget's largest. They cover an expenditure of about $4,500m. Incidentally, that Department is the most costly to administer, at a cost of about $l32m a year. Its officers certainly wield great power and authority over the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the Cabinet, because their financial considerations appear to be sacrosanct in every way. 
To me it is utterly immoral for the Treasurer to announce, as he did in the Budget, that "within this overall result there would on present figuring be a surplus of domestic receipts over domestic expenditure of the order of $550m'. As shown in the Estimates, it might reach $633m. Yet the Treasurer in the previous paragraph had brought the Budget figures into balance with a $4m surplus, with income at $7,887m and expenditure at $7,883m. How are honourable members on both sides of the Parliament to evaluate intelligently departmental expenditure if the figures presented to us are to be rigged in the manner in which Statements 2 and 3 in the Budget Papers have been presented to the Parliament by the Treasurer? The honourable gentleman did not once reveal during his hour-long speech that there was to be another massive surplus, for the second year in succession. For honourable members to obtain information about the nation's finances they have to turn either to the Estimates or to the Auditor-General's report, and not look to the Budget which is considered to be the Government's White Paper on its income and expenditure. 1 believe that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Cabinet had known for months, and perhaps as far back as last year, that they intended to clamp down on the nation's expenditure again this year. It is known that the Commonwealth Bank had informed some of its borrowers about a month or 6 weeks before the Government had announced it, that interest rates would rise and that the Commonwealth Bank's housing loans were to be increased by three-quarters of 1 pet cent, from 4.75 per cent to 5.5 per cent. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has already had incorporated in Hansard a table showing the extent to which increased interest alone will extend the repayment period of home purchasing and the extra cost involved. The Government's action in 1969-70 and again this year, in its restriction of finance to borrowers under the guise of reducing liquidity, has set off a political time fuse that will smoulder for years. In the result the investor will become richer while the borrower becomes poorer and poorer. 
Already this is to be seen in the 50c a week, or S26 a year, increase to pensioners, who were given money with one hand and had it taken back with the other. I am sure that the major financial difficulties of State governments flow directly from the Commonwealth's immigration policy, whereby it spends more than S50m a year to bring migrants here only to dump them mercilessly, relentlessly and unceremoniously into the laps of State governments to nurture, house, educate and employ them, without any consideration for the ability or otherwise of the authorities which must of necessity be the final link in a migrant's rehabilitation in his new country - the local government authorities. Last year and again this year there has been a financial confrontation between State governments and this Government, the result being that this Government has been compelled, if only in part, to recognise the financial needs of the States. Local government finances are a shambles. Numerous shire and council administrations no longer know where to turn to obtain sufficient funds with which to carry on their essential services in the face of rising debts. The health services in urban areas lacking sewerage are a positive disgrace to the nation. There are literally hundreds of such areas. Rising interest rates add enormously to the financial problems of local government because not only is this causing higher payments to meet the cost of the investment capital that councils acquire but also it compels councils and shires to increase the rates payable by low salary property owners who are already over-burdened in the repayment of capital. This adds further to the burden of home ownership. 
The extent to which local government and semi-government authorities are financially committed to new works, road construction and widening, land resumption compensation, slum clearance, free public libraries, elderly people's homes, Meals on Wheels, baby clinics and numerous other undertakings, would be extremely hard to assess. One thing is certain, and that is that the cost of providing these services is fast becoming beyond the resources of both local government and the people who are called upon to meet the cost. For a long time now representatives of the shires and councils associations have been urging representation at conferences between the Commonwealth and the States. Local government representatives have been kept out of monetary and fiscal discussions for far too long. I urge that they be extended an invitation to be present at all future meetings of Commonwealth and State authorities, if not on the Loan Council level then on the Treasury level. When all is said and done, local government is the authority which is closest to the population domestically. 
What causes me most concern is the movement and cancellation of finance which takes place in government fiscal policy, at which level all sort of juggling and manipulation can take place. The manipulation I refer to is that the Government is paying itself interest, such as from the Post Office or the Snowy Mountains scheme, makes sure that it is at the highest rate and yet the funds used are often provided from Consolidated Revenue, a source to which we all contribute. The cancellation of finance derived from revenue in the first instance and repaid, or derived from loan fund advances for such items as housing, at a time when personal exertion taxation is being kept excessively high and is still increasing is, to my way of thinking, heinous and immoral. As I see it, the proper deployment of this finance could well bring about a reduction in taxation and thus add to the real value of wages and salaries. 
For this to be occurring at a time when the Treasurer is able to soak away and in other ways terminate the use of thousands of millions of dollars of the taxpayers' hard earned income each year under the pretence of preserving the national economy from overheating, excessive liquidlty and the inflation for which he and his Government are directly responsible, beggars description and leaves me cold. For 21 years the Government has been squealing inflation and h asdone nothing about it except to squeal and deliberately to mislead the people. That is confirmed by the Treasurer, both in his Budget Speech and his Statement 64 issued on 5th July, when he reiterated that the Budget surplus of $500m had been realised, whereas the actual surplus was $578m, or $78m more than the Treasurer cared to admit.  Mr Chairman,  I would have given anything for a million or two of those dollars to spend on local government requirements, including water and sewerage for many areas of my electorate. lt also has to be remembered that the Treasurer has said already that he expects this year's surplus to be of the order of $550m whereas the Estimates list the sur plus as approximately $633m. A little earlier,  Mr Chairman,  I referred to the Loan Fund account. Shortly the Government will be dealing with the Loan Housing Bill in which $142,550,000 will be distributed to the States at, I think, 6 per cent interest - that being 1 per cent below the present long term bond rate. Since the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement has been in force, including the amount under the Bill to which I refer, the Commonwealth will have subscribed more than $2.000m for housing At the present time more than $ 1,800m is still outstanding. Last year borrowers of housing loans paid $61,852,000 in interest and in each of the years to come the amount will increase sharply because of this Government's irresponsible action in increasing interest on housing loans. 
What amazes me,  Mr Chairman,  is that once the interest has been received by the Commonwealth from the States it appears as if it is phased out of further participation in Commonwealth finances. On page 1 1 of the statements attached to the Budget reference is made to a $142,500,000 housing loan, ft is again referred to at pages 28 and 37 of the Estimates. The sum of $61,852,034 is shown at page 28 as the interest received from the States. At that point the $6 1m is extracted from the expenditure on special appropriation and appears to end there. I wonder why that is so. In my view budgetary accounting methods are another aspect of the Government's financial juggling which also should be closely scrutinised because it seems that the discrepancy of a million or two either way in budget accounting does not matter anyway. Should this year's expected surplus occur,  Mr Chairman,  in the last 3 years alone there will have been an accumulated amount of $1,437,957,897 paid to the Loan Consolidated and Investment Reserve from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I would like to have developed my argument to some greater purpose but as time has run out I would like to hear what the Treasurer has to say in rebuttal of my remarks. 
1 address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is an employer, such as the Newcastle State Dockyard, entitled to dismiss an employee a few days before his medical examination for national service is undertaken? What are the rules in this regard? Is there any protection for registrants declared medically fit for service in respect of continuity of employment between the date of examination and the date of call-up, or are they expected to live on the dole while awaiting call-up? Is any penalty imposed on an employer who dismisses a youth from his employment within a fixed period of his entering camp? What effect would this have on the serviceman's employment position after discharge from service in respect of long service leave and the continuity of his previous employment? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government is withdrawing from pensioners long held concessions such as pensioner medical services, telephone rental concessions and transport concessions as property assets increase? In view of the fact that pensioners cannot eat their homes and have no control over inflationary increases in home valuations, why has the Government permitted this to happen? Is it the Government's desire that pensioners living in large homes should allow portion of their home to remain unused in a time of great need for more housing, or is the Government afraid that some pensioner couples may receive a little too much income from rent to supplement the meagre pension being paid to them? Finally, when did the Government decide to alter its previous policy that allowed a pensioner to retain his pensioner medical entitlement once received irrespective of the amount of his pension? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Does the Rural Bank of New South Wales participate in the operation of Commonwealth-State housing or housing commission home purchase schemes? Is it a fact that some bank officers have been giving preferential treatment to those applicants for housing loans who undertake to become members of a certain political party? Would such behaviour be tantamount to political blackmail? Does the Government condone this practice? As a basis of ensuring that such a practice is discouraged, will the Treasurer institute an inquiry to ascertain whether, in fact, such happenings have occurred, espe cially within the area of the Shortland electorate, by obtaining the name of the political party concerned, the number of bank officers who have become members of political parties over recent years, in particular since 1968, and the number of applicants who have received housing loans over the same period or who have been promised loans in consideration of their becoming members of political parties? 
I seek leave to make a statement on pensioners. 
In the absence of the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of Wilfred Williams of the Lions Club of Richmond in the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That for some time past the attention of the said Club has been directed to the needs of benevolent institutions for additional accommodation and equipment to cater for the numbers of destitute or near-destitute men. women and children of all age groups. 
That the capital cost of welfare works is higher than the amounts which can be raised by community service organisations or local government authorities on a voluntary basis 
That there are increases in costs of maintenance in children's and babies' homes in Victoria, the shortfall last year being approximately $500,000, which cost is aggravated by inflation and continuous rises in the cost of living. 
That large quantities of money, running into approximately $500m per annum, are being levied from taxpayers by the Commonwealth Government by way of obtaining a surplus on domestic account. 
That appropriation for the above purposes could be made from the above surplus on domestic account. Alternatively, that the various tax deductions and other tax advantages granted to dealers and speculators in residential vacant land and existing housing (i.e. more than one year old) under the Income Tax Assessment Act could, in the public interest, be withdrawn, which would increase the tax revenue and could be appropriated to a Treasury Trust Fund. 
Your petitioner therefore humbly prays that the House of Representatives will initiate or concur in appropriate legislation for the purpose of (1) making grants suitable to the financial needs of benevolent institutions for additional accommodation and equipment of a capital nature and the estimated costs of same, in particular for destitute or near-destitute men, women and children of all age groups, and for those in a nonpensionable age category and (2) enabling financial grants of a supplementary nature to be made for maintenance costs of an urgent nature in such institutions. 
And your petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Prime Minister: What were the conclusions that enabled him to recognise the Taiwan government as the lawful government of China? Did the People's Republic of China come into existence in circumstances similar to those of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? If so, why do we have diplomatic recognition of Russia and not of Mainland China? Does the Government contemplate supporting the admission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations on a 2-China basis? If so, is the right honourable gentleman aware that the Chinese Prime Minister, Chou En-lai, consistently refuses to accept the 2-China formula and emphasises that his government will never surrender his country's sovereignty, irrespective of where the political pressure comes from? In the interests of both peace and trade will the Prime Minister drop the 2-China concept and try to conceive something more politically original in his search for grounds on which the Australian Government might rely to enable it officially to recognise the People's Republic of China and support its admission to the United Nations? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I ask: Do taxation statistics show that the taxable income of some 3 million Australian wage earners averages only approximately ยง30 a week but provides more than $445m in taxation? Is it true that some higher income earners save almost the equivalent of those incomes in deductions allowed under the Income Tax Assessment Act? Further, are the incomes of these low wage earners being drastically reduced by the high cost of transport paid by many of them in travelling to and from their places of employment? Is it a fact that in 1957  Mr Justice  Dixon, in giving judgment in the High Court in the Lunny and Hayley cases, severely criticised section 51 of the Act and said that if he were to be directed to review the section be would have misgivings about what conclusion he would reach? In view of the fact that  Mr Justice  McTiernan, in a dissenting judgment in the same case, indicated he could not find anything that would indicate that in the rate of wages being paid the appellants there was any consideration of the expense incurred in travelling to and from work, does the Government propose to do anything about reviewing this hardship through an amendment of section 51 of the Act? Did the Chief Justice imply that the section should be reviewed? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47) per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that more than 75 per cent of egg producers have flocks of 1,000 birds or under and are as a result of high production costs and government-inflicted charges unable to meet their debts? Is it true that these charges on producers are levied by both State and Federal govern ments and that producers have to pay more than $2,000 a year before they can commence to earn a living? ls it a fact that pensioner producers in particular are severely limited in the size of their flocks by the Department of Social Services means test? How many producers are in debt to the Commonwealth and against how many has the Department of Primary Industry taken bankruptcy proceedings? How does the Government reconcile this state of affairs with the millions of dollars that it is spending on other sections of rural industry? Will the Minister examine the possibility of removing the Council of Egg Market nR Authorities of Australia charges from producers whose gross income is below the weekly minimum national wage and cease bankruptcy proceedings against pensioner producers struggling to eke out a living? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the doubts existing in the minds of the general public about the proposal for a film and television school, will he state the Government's attitude to the matter? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact that some migrants purchasing Government cottages occupied by them since their arrival are being grossly exploited in the prices being charged, the high interest rates and the conditions of purchase set by the Department of the Interior? Did these houses originally cost less than $2,000. In the Australian Capital Territory is the tenure long term Crown lease? If so, why is $8,000 or $9,000 plus  6)  per cent interest being charged for pine framed asbestos walled cottages which have a very limited life span? Can the Minister say why contracts are cancelled once a purchaser makes a lump sum payment and new contracts are written thereby reducing the payment period by nearly one-third? Finally, will the Minister tell the Parliament the financial return the Government hopes to obtain from the sale of these low cost houses and why tenant purchasers are not allowed some credit off the purchase price for rent previously paid and for improvements they have made to their homes over the years of occupancy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. Is it a fact that pensioner couples receive basic pension of $61 a fortnight and may receive supplementary income of $34 without reduction of pension? If a superannuitant receives a fortnightly income in excess of $34, is the gross pension reduced accordingly? For example, if a man receives $49 a fortnight in superannuation is the age pension rate then $46 a fortnight, making a total of $95 from both sources? In the former case, does a widow continue to receive $61 for 6 fortnights after the death of her spouse, while in the latter case the widow receives only $46 a fortnight? If this is so, will the Minister say whether this is still another example of how the Government dispenses justice to some pensioners and whether it is similar to the penalties imposed on some people by the Postmaster-General's Department in its application of fringe benefits? 
My question is addressed to the appropriate Minister. Is it a fact that school leavers applying for scholarships and youths waiting for medical examination for national service are not eligible for the unemployment benefit, although they are registered for employment, on the ground that they are not available for full-time employment? Is it true that the results of scholarship applications and the dates involved in the next national service call-up will not foe known for at least another 7 weeks? If so, will the appropriate Minister take action to have all unemployed persons paid the unemployment benefit when they are registered for employment? Will he also give consideration to the issue of travel warrants to persons seeking employment who live long distances from potential employment? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts in his capacity as Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. I ask: Is it a fact that thousands of Australian tourists to Europe are being systematically and cunningly fleeced each year of their hard-earned savings by an English travel company operating as Global Tours which inflicts special charges for tours booked in Australia but which operate from London to London? Does the Minister know that tours of approximately  28  days are costing Australians approximately $40 more than they cost tourists from such countries as Canada and America? Could the difference referred to be a case of exchange manipulation or simply unadulterated robbery? Will the Minister examine the brochures and correspondence which I have with a view to taking action to protect the future interests of Australian tourists? Will he ascertain the possibility of having refunds made to the couple who had complained to Global  in London last year about this exploitation of Australian tourists, and who in effect were rudely told to jump in the lake? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the  non-repayable grant to the Statesfor low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standardsof the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights'. 
Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet. 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully, draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: Base pension rate- 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable  aged  people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth , revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Armitage, Mr Reid, Mr Reynolds, Mr Garrick, Mr Luchetti  and  Mr Kennedy. 
Petitions severally received. 
A similar  petiton  was presented by  Mr Webb  and was received and read. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister as the Leader of the Government. In view of the Government's belated but commendable move to relieve the poverty and hardship of people living on fixed incomes, will he tell the Parliament whether the Government has any plans to help those people whose paper assets prevent them from receiving social service benefits or the fringe benefits that flow from being a recipient of a pension? Is the Prime Minister aware that recently a property at Narrabri with an improved value of more than $14,600 brought only $8,000 at public auction, yet the Department of Social Services is paying the invalid pensioner owner of that property only $7 a week even though she had to meet a debt of more than $1,200 for this year's rates? Will the Prime Minister cause an investigation to be made into the anomaly to which I have referred so that at least some sort of justice may at last come to the very oldest of Australian citizens who are being denied their proper entitlement to social welfare? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that the site on which the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd establishment at Newcastle is situated is one of the most valuable industrial sites in Australia? Did the firm obtain the site for a mere song compared with today's values? Was the Government consulted or informed in advance of the company's intention to close the Newcastle engineering building products section of its plant? Is the company's present development of plants away from Newcastle being made at the expense of its Newcastle employees, as well as those from subsidiary plants, involving thousands of people? Is the Minister aware that large areas of land are available on Koorangang Island, which is just across the Hunter River from where the present establishment is situated, for industrial development? In view of this, is the company justified in closing its already developed Newcastle plant and spending millions of dollars elsewhere in establishing other plants? Will the Government explore the possibility of ascertaining whether any other industrial enterprise either here or abroad would be available to take over at Newcastle where John Lysaght has left off? 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement on matters affecting the Shortland electorate. 
It has a lot to do with the House. I suggest that if further evidence is required, those people who are interested enough in the Labor movement might read the Burns report dated 23rd November 1970 in which Shortland does not even receive a mention. I am sure that anyone who takes the time to study the document will find it very interesting reading. I believe that it is reminiscent of the Wren era. In any case, those responsible for the mishandling of the membership ticket books must be apprehended and expelled from the Labor Party. The events of the past 3 years in the Shortland electorate can never be resolved until a public inquiry has been held into all the charges and counter charges that have been made. I urge that either this Government or the New South Wales Government institute an inquiry before all the evidence that has been accumulated has been removed or destroyed. 
There are 2 or 3 other aspects of the Shortland electorate dispute that have caused me unceasing worry and I will mention them briefly. The first matter relates to an attack that was made on  Mr Ley,  the Chief Commonwealth Electoral Officer, and his deputies regarding ballot rigging and illegal voting at elections, by  Mr Westerway,  the New South Wales Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. In dissociating myself from  Mr Westerway's  remarks I want to pay a tribute to  Mr Ley  and his officers for their attention to duty and the courteous way they have always received me when I have sought their help. I especially pay a tribute to the 3 divisional presiding officers who have conducted the business of the Shortland electorate since its inception in 1949. I refer to the late Bert Smith, Bill Budd and Don Stewart, the present presiding officer. Each of these 3 men has possessed qualities separate from each other, while being as virtuous and sustaining as one another. Any one of us could think himself lucky to be fortunate enough to have them administering the electorate for him. To them I say a gracious thank you. 

 Mr Speaker, you will be aware that over the past 2 years or more I have complained to you about the type of garbage that some members of the Press Gallery have been dishing out about me through their newspapers. I have been virtually accused of being a traitor to the Labor cause. It has been said that I had been prepared to sell Labor down the drain so that the Liberal Government could remain in office while I retained an alleged lifelong friendship with you,  Mr Speaker.  1 refer to the journalist Maximilian Walsh. I have never spoken to him in my life, but he has most certainly cashed in on the Shortland affair. That man is an out and out scoundrel from whose pen flow lies with impunity. In other words, he is an unmitigated prevaricator. On several occasions  Mr Walsh  has proudly denigrated me, but in my view if he lives to be 100 years old he will never equal my industrial and political record. 
On 19th December last he wrote in the Sun-Herald' an article headed 'Charlie G. Leaves  His  Shell Again'. In that article he accused me of winning preselection in 1949 by stacking branches, and in particular the Adamstown branch. It could be said that  Mr Walsh,  and my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who has also accused me of branch stacking, may have gone into a huddle somewhere and worked out together what they would say, because they tell the same story about branch stacking. So they both lie.  Mr Walsh's  claim- 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that lack of sewerage hygiene right across Australia is adding to pollution and undermining people's health? Is the imputation of some authorities true that machinery, material and labour are readily available but the finance is not and that the right honourable gentleman could not care a damn because the electorate of Lowe is almost 100 per cent sewered? For this purpose will the right honourable gentleman consider taking the legislative action necessary to enable the Government to create a revolving fund to be financed out of the interest being received and cancelled from Loan Fund finances under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, thereby absorbing unskilled and semi-skilled unemployed labour and at the same time providing to hundreds of thousands of home owners and occupiers of homes a long awaited, important household amenity? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. Has the Minister yet studied the contents of the survey by the Police Bureau of Crime Statistics which, according to the New South Wales Minister for Justice, reveals that there are areas of real poverty in and around the electorate of Shortland and elsewhere? Does the honourable gentleman remember that constantly I have been bringing to his notice cases involving people who are chronically ill with diseases such as varicocele, arthritis and hypertensionsion about which medical practitioners are unable to certify their patients as being 83 per cent incapacitated? In view of the fact that most employers will not employ persons incapable of a maximum work effort, will the Minister consider reducing the 85 per cent incapacity that is required under section 23 of the Social Services Act to something like 50 per cent or 60 per cent to enable these folk to receive an invalid pension? Will the Minister also eliminate the anomalies that prevent single mothers under 16 years of age and deserted wives with young children receiving pensions immediately after their desertion, thus removing the possibility of many people becoming known to the police? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the Government intend to dissolve the Parliament without restoring salary justice to back bench members as recommended last year by  Mr Justice  Kerr? Is it a fact that the ordinary members of this House receive salaries far less than those of their counterparts in some State parliaments? Has the Government any plan for the adjustment of pension rates that will apply to those of us who are retiring from this Parliament or who will be defeated at the coming election? Is the present scheme specifically designed to encourage members with 12 years' service to resign before they reach 50 years of age and accept either a lump sum payment or a pension? Finally, what other superannuation funds compel their contributors to continue contributing after they reach 65 years of age? 
 By the time the forthcoming election is held I will have served in the national Parliament one week short of 23 years. Tonight I want to refer to a few matters in the time available to me as it will be the last time I speak in this place. What 1 say,  Mr Speaker,  I leave to posterity to judge. The important thing is that it will be on record. The institution of Parliament is one thing, but it could never hope to operate successfully without the people who service it and that must never be allowed to be forgotten by those whose responsibility it is to govern from time to time. I pay the parliamentary staff at all levels the compliment of being the most loyal and dedicated people in all industry, and I thank them all for their help and friendship over the whole of my parliamentary career. To the parliamentary officers and to the Hansard staff I am also sincerely thankful. 
I think it would be wrong if I were to forget the secretarial staff both here and in our electorates. Unfortunately too many of us literally take these folk for granted, yet so many of us could not survive politically if they were not almost constantly at our beck and call. I appreciate all the help they have given and 1 thank them also. In my time here the Parliament seems to have come more and more under the domination of the Executive, the members of which have always well and truly looked after themselves to the definite disadvantage of rank and file members and the staff. 1 believe that the wages staff in particular are grossly underpaid having regard to their responsibilities and the unearthly hours they are required to work when Parliament is in session. I know of no other section of industry that would tolerate its employees reporting back for work without their first of all having a prescribed amount of time off between shifts. In my judgment the democratic processes of Parliament could be made to work much more efficiently if only the Government were to dispense a little more justice all round, rather than to adopt the somewhat avaricious attitude it has shown over the years towards the Ministry and. for the very top flight public servants on whom Ministers depend so much. 
Last week I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  a question about members' salaries and superannuation entitlements. Needless to say, I made little progress in the answer received. Therefore I return to the subject because of my dissatisfaction .with the answer I was given. Never previously have I raised the question of salaries and I do so now when it has no bearing on my future, so it can hardly be said that I am thinking of myself. Apart from back bench members' salaries, my main concern is for the continued solvency of the superannuation fund. Although the fund is only 24 years old, if the calls being made on it continue to mount the evidence shows that in the course of time either the Government supplement will have to be considerably increased or contributors' premiums will have to be raised. Alternatively, the fund inevitably will become bankrupt. In the latest report of the Commonwealth Actuary covering the period 1966-1970 he shows in his recommendations concern for an already existing deficit of $114,000 and in effect warns of the possible dangers that lie ahead of the fund if increased earnings are not forthcoming, i seek leave to incorporate the 7 recommendations in Hansard for all to see. 
 I thank the House.I leave the matter at that because I feel that the Minister will handle it in the way in which it should be handled. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. Is it a fact that the Minister proposes an incursion into the Shortland electorate later this week where he is to be the guest of the Dudley pensioners? If so, ' will he, when addressing the assembly, justify his Department's consistent refusal to feed certain categories of deserted wives and their children or, alternatively, explain ' why he refuses to ascertain from the New South Wales Social Welfare Department why that Department refuses to succour deserted wives at least to the extent provided by law? Finally, when can I expect a reply in the Winkler representations? Will he also table the papers in the Duff case so that the Parliament may be in a position to judge the merits of what constitutes lawful desertion in the Government's view so far as hundreds of married women are concerned? 
by leave - I thank the Minister for the promptness with which he has brought this matter to the House. I sought the tabling of the papers in this case only because all through my parliamentary career I have met with the type of case which is under discussion. The fact that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  by his own statement, has confirmed the correctness of the attitude of his Department, highlights, I feel, the very question that I had raised. 
I am aware that Commonwealth legislation does not provide for the payment of pensions to a deserted wife with children before 6 months has elapsed from the time of desertion. I am also aware that the New South Wales Department of Child Welfare and Social Welfare relentlessly has opposed the granting of maintenance payments to widows who have received consent orders from a court. Barristers, solicitors and legal fraternity, say what one may, have the habit of adjourning cases to prolong the hearing of applications for maintenance and orders, especially for desertion. While all this goes on, women with their small babies are left to starve. 
The other case I mentioned in my question was that of a woman who had a 2 year old baby and was 8 months pregnant when she came to my office a fortnight ago and begged for something to be done. She now has a baby one week old as well as the other child 2 years old. She is receiving $42 a fortnight from the State Welfare Department because of the desertion. The States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act 1968, I thought, was designed to help this type of case. But New South Wales in particular stands adamantly opposed to helping this type of woman. There are literally hundreds of cases of this kind. 
I realise that until the Commonwealth Government accepts responsibility for this type of case and dismisses the States from interference nothing will be done. I am seeking the tabling of those papers in order to let the Parliament see the Government's attitude towards consent awards. The lady of whom the Minister spoke lived with her husband for 3 years and had one child. Her husband virtually would not go to work. He would not get out of bed. Somebody offered the excuse that he had lost his mother and it had affected him. Nevertheless, his wife is only 22. She has had a baby and has had to live on only what her own parents gave her. The State would not give her anything. 
The Minister and all of us in this Parliament are culpable in relation to this type of case because while we spend hundred of millions of dollars to bring migrants here we refuse to look after the babies born of our own women. I want this problem resolved. This woman received a consent order No. D270 for maintenance. It was confirmed in her divorce on the grounds of cruelty. The case was decided by a magistrate at Newcastle. The terms of the order required her husband to pay SIO a week for her and  $6  a week for the child. But he paid nothing then and is still not paying anything. It is true that a pension was awarded to her from September this year, but she had to live for more than 12 months before this without anything. I maintain that she was entitled to something. 
I do not want to weary or detain the House, but I should like to have incorporated in Hansard a letter to me from James Grahame and Mitchell, solicitors, dated 4th August 1972; a letter from those solicitors to the Registrar of the Department of Social Services in Newcastle, dated 17th July 1972, and 2 letters from Department of Social Services in Newcastle dated 6th July 1972 and 18th August 1972 refusing a pension to this lady who now has 2 babies. I asked the Minister's secretary about this matter 3 weeks ago. James Grahame and Mitchell are pressing me now for a further reply. The letter from James Grahame and Mitchell to the Registrar of the Department of Social Services in Newcastle reads in part: 
As to the aspect of desertion, it would have been alleged by  Mrs X,  had the matter been contested, that her husband's conduct was such that she was forced to leave the matrimonial home on 19th January 1972, he having assaulted her on several occasions and ill-treated during the course of the marriage. We are satisfied that the allegations that  Mrs X  made if accepted by the court would have been sufficient to ground an Order. As it was, there was an admission by the defendant that he had given the complainant good cause to leave him. 
In those circumstances we invite yoU to reconsider  Mrs X's  application. 
But the Department of Social Services again refused it and the matter is now in the Minister's hands. I appeal to him to do something about the Act in general and to take away from the New South Wales Department of Social Welfare the handling of this type of case. It was an officer of the State Department who asked me to handle this case in the first place, because he was not getting anywhere with it from the point of view of the Department.  Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave for these letters to be incorporated in Hansard. 
