by leave -  Mr Speaker, His Excellency  the Governor-General has already foreshadowed major changes in the Government's health insurance programme during this Parliament. I appreciate the opportunity of providing the House with further information concerning the wide ranging improvements which the Government intends to introduce. As long ago as February 1968 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  clearly indicated his intention to review thoroughly and, where necessary, extensively improve the health insurance scheme. With this clear objective and on the firm foundation of schemes introduced by previous Liberal-Country Party Governments, we have already made great advances in providing security against the cost of illness - advances of which this Government is justifiably proud. 
Answering the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, in my statement to the House last week I indicated the Government's view that at this stage it did not intend to implement the proposal of the Nimmo Committee relating to a participating doctors' scheme at this time. I said that the Government would watch very closely the degree of co-operation by the profession in the common fee system. At this stage I do not propose to go any further than what I said in that statement, which was a considered statement. I presume that the honourable gentleman based his question on a statement made yesterday after a meeting in Adelaide of the Australian Medical Association. It is clear from the statement, which I have seen, that the AMA proposes certain variations from the suggestions which it had previously submitted and which have been incorporated in the Government's health benefits plan. I cannot emphasise too strongly that the Government's first concern and responsibility in health are to the patient. In furtherance of that objective, and bearing in mind particularly what the AMA said about differential rates of benefits for specialist services, the Government believes that people who need the services of specialists should not be at a disadvantage financially beyond the limits of the benefits proposals already announced, that is that nobody would have to pay more than $5 for a service by a doctor who charges the common fee. But if within the ambit of the Government's clear intention the AMA now wishes to put forward modified proposals I will be very glad to discuss them with the Association. I need hardly say that it is still the Government's intention to proceed with its proposal to introduce as early as possible during the current sitting legislation to reconstruct the medical benefits scheme. 
If the honourable gentleman reads Hansard he will see that I answered his question yesterday. ] do not think that I need add anything further to it. 
The epindemology committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which advises the Government and the public on these matters, will go no further in relation to forecasting what might happen than to say that the possibility of an influenza epidemic in Australia this winter cannot be excluded. So I am afraid that that is all that I can tell him about the likely severity of it. In relation to the other part of his question, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories has advised me that there are adequate supplies of vaccine available for those who require them. It is, of course, as the honourable gentleman will know, a pensioner pharmaceutical benefit. The only other piece of information that I can give him is that those people who had the two injections last year will require only one injection to confer immunity this year. 
The honourable gentleman has asked me whether, in its evidence to the Nimmo Committee, the Australian Medical Association made submissions supporting the concept of differential benefits for general practitioners and specialists performing the same procedure. I understand that the AMA did make such submissions to the Committee. This would be consistent with the Association's policy since 1965. The concept of differential rebates has been AMA policy just as it is Government policy. The only way in which the patient can be adequately protected against the cost of medical treatment by a specialist is by the adoption of such a policy. The honourable member asked further whether the AMA had changed that policy and if so, in what respects. I think I can answer that question by saying that as far as I am aware the AMA has not changed its policy. The honourable member may be referring to a statement made by the  President  of the AMA in Adelaide a week ago last Monday, after conferring with the Presidents of the State branches, in which he said that the AMA would take up with the Government a review of some - not all - of the more than 300 procedures for which it is anticipated there will be differential benefits in the new schedules. Those discussions took place yesterday between the Executive of the AMA and me. Arising out of those discussions a working party was set up comprising officers of my Department, members of the AMA and the  Chairman  of the Council of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. The working party has finished its work and has reported to me that it has reviewed the matter in the light of the Government's policy that the patients of specialists will not be financially disadvantaged. The working party has informed me that any changes that it favoured were so small as to make it undesirable to recommend their implementation. To sum up, the AMA's policy is still pne of support for differential benefits for procedures performed byboth general practitioners and specialists. 
I think that the approach of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and the approach of his party to this problem, is well exemplified by the use of his expression, which formed the key to his tirade, when he talked about exploiters and usurers. Exploiters and usurers is the reason for the situation which he alleges to exist. This is a highly emotional Socialist approach, an over simplified approach, to the reasons for the existing situation, and still more it is a highly emotional Socialist approach to the way the particular problems should be tackled. 
I question the validity of the case put up by the honourable gentleman. I question it in relation to the evidence which he was able to produce to prove his point about rises in land values. The honourable member asked that some documents be incorporated in Hansard. I have been given a copy of these documents and in my usual co-operative way I, and the members of my party, agreed that they be incorporated in Hansard. The honourable gentleman explained that they were a list of prices paid for land for home sites in the suburbs of Sydney in March 1970. Really, these documents were almost the sole basis for everything he had to say and for all the allegations he made in his speech today, to support this matter of public importance. What the honourable gentleman did not tell us was how a table was compiled. 
I see at the bottom of one document - and honourable gentlemen will be able to read it in Hansard - that it is compiled by the Legislative Research Service from the classified advertisement column 'Houses, Home Sites for Sale' which appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald' of Saturday, 14th March 1970. In absence of information to the contrary I assume that all that has happened is that this service has gone down through the classified advertisement COlums, found a suburb and picked out a price. The honourable member mentioned one suburb. Engadine. However, he did not tell us of some of the other suburbs listed in the document which are produced in evidence to demonstrate that there is a real problem. Just let me read some of the suburbs that are in the list. 
I do not come from Sydney but I was brought up there as a boy and I have been back since and I do know something about the character of some of the suburbs, if not all of them. Just let me read out some of the suburbs which the honourable member produced in evidence by listing the prices found in the classified advertisement columns of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on one day, on which he forms the basis of his case. As I said, the honourable member mentioned Engadine; but that is the only one he mentioned. Also listed were the suburbs of Castlecrag, Chatswood, Collaroy, Cronulla, Dee Why West, Hornsby, Hunters Hill, Killara, Lindfield, Mona Vale, Mosman - Mosman - Newport, Pymble, Turramurra North and Wahroonga. I just picked those examples from the suburbs I happen to know. 1 am quite sure that there will be others in the same category. But what the honourable member is saying is that because it was found in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 14th March that someone was advertising some land for sale in Mosman at $28,000, that proves his point. Mosman is one of the oldest developed areas and pick suburbs of Sydney. There is no indication of any particular circumstances that might have surrounded that price being put on land in Mosman or anywhere else. There is no indication as to how much land was involved or anything else. Yet the honourable gentleman expects the House to take seriously the argument he has put forward, which is based almost entirely on this sort of information. 
This is a serious problem. I believe that if this Parliament is to face this problem and is to discuss it rationally it should do so in an objective and factual way and not in the sort of way indicated by the honourable gentleman who talked about exploiters and usurers and produced as the basis of his argument information - such as the documents he has incorporated in Hansard - which would not stand up for 5 minutes anywhere. 1 would like to take a few minutes to try to deal with the subject objectively and reasonably rather than in the emotional tones preferred by the honourable gentleman and his Party. Although we have no accurate measure of the rises that have taken place in the past 2 or 3 years in the price of residential land in metropolitan areas in Australia, there is no doubt - and I am not denying this and the Government does not deny it - that some rises have occurred and that these rises may have been faster in Sydney and in Perth. To that extent I agree with what the honourable gentleman has to say. However, he did not say - this did not suit his argument - that there are some signs of a flattening out. 
This is now quite obvious in Perth. Action being taken by the New South Wales Government to permit large areas in the green belt around Sydney to be used for residential purposes and to release more Crown land for home building is likely to ease the upward movement of land prices in the Sydney area. 
The facts of life are that, as more and more families wish to live in our capital cities and close to places of employment land prices must rise. There is a given amount of land within, say, 10 miles o( the centre of a capital city. It is reasonable for me to ask just what Labor would do about the inevitable economic effects of this desire of people. They want to live in suburbs where most of the land is already occupied. To implement the proposal contained in the policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  which was referred to by the honourable member for Reid, will Labor compulsorily acquire building sites so that it can farm them out to people who seek them? This is not made clear. But it is clear that, unless Labor's policy is translated into action by compulsory acquisition, it will cost sonicbody, probably the taxpayers, an enormous amount of money. Around the fringes of the capital cities land prices have not risen very much. The honourable gentleman did not produce any evidence on this aspect. I do not call examples of sales advertised in the 'Sydney Morning Herald* evidence. The spectacular rises in land prices have occurred largely in the inner areas and in a few preferred suburbs, such as the ones that I have mentioned. More people wish to live in these areas where the supply of land is fixed. If they have the finance io pay higher prices, prices will rise. This is simply a matter of supply and demand. 
One of the main reasons for the increased costs of newly developed residential land is the increasing requirement of local government and public utility authorities that the developer must meet a large part or all the cost of providing high quality roads, kerbing, guttering, footpaths, water, sewerage and drainage. In addition land developers in our cities are now required to donate  5%  or 10% of the land to the local authority for parks and other recreational facilities. Is the honourable gentleman against that? Naturally these costs ire passed on by the developer. This is largely the reason for the rise in the price of newly developed residential land on the outskirts of the cities. 
The rising cost of residential land is, of course, causing a good deal of concern to all authorities responsible for the provision of housing for the lower and moderate income groups in the community. I emphasise that this is primarily, if not wholly, a responsibility of State governments, but Labor does not mention that aspect. In the past year or two some State governments have been providing additional finance for the development of residential land in addition to permitting more land to be developed for home building. A notable example of this has been the success achieved by the Western Australian Government in bringing about a flattening out and an occasional reduction of land prices in Perth. Both the Housing Commission there and the Rural and Industries Bank recently undertook large land development projects to the north and south of the city. This land has recently been released, with a marked effect on prices. This is an example of a State authority recognising and accepting its responsibility and doing something about it. 
Because accurate information as to recent average increases in land prices is not available, it is very easy as the honourable gentleman did, to exaggerate the extent of the rise in land prices, although this certainly poses a very real problem to home seekers. The evidence available is that applicants for homes savings grants - this is a pretty good group to take, because it excludes luxury sales and many of the sales at the lower end of the scale - were on average paying nearly $2,500 for a block of land in 1966-67 and $2,710 in 1968-69. This is a rise of 8.5%. Let me draw the attention of the House to the fact that the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition is the uncontrolled spiralling price of urban land. Over a 2-year period the average price of a block of land rose by 8.5% in our fast developing, highly employed economy. I am not saying that the experience of these applicants was necessarily typical of that of all land seekers, but it does give some indication of the position. It gives a much better indication than does the sort of nonsense that the honourable member for Reid asked us to accept, and that is advertisements appearing in the classified section of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on one Saturday. As I have already said, this is a matter for action by the States. They are well aware of the problem and most of them are taking some action to ameliorate the effects of rising land prices. Some of them have been very successful. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following registered health benefit organisations have an arrangement with Australian Electronic Therapy Services to provide physiotherapy services to members: 
The Ancient Order of Foresters in Victoria Friendly Society, Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The combined annual income of the registered health insurance funds from contributions for the 1968-69 financial year, was $182,907,752; 
the combined reserves, including the Outstanding Claims Provisions, of the registered health insurance funds as at 30th June 1969 were $119,157,204. 
The above figures are preliminary only, and are subject to revision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought in questions (1) to (6) is not available in my Department. The next meeting of the International Federation on Voluntary Health Service Funds is to be held in Chicago, United States of America, in August 1970. However, the voluntary health insurance organisations do not consult my Department in determining those who will be attending. Any expenditure involved in sending representatives to the meeting will be a matter for decision by the particular organisation concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Ministers who attended this Conference agreed that public statements on discussions at the Conference should be limited to the following matters: 
Nimmo Report. 
Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council. 
Controls of amphetamines. 
Enzymes in Soap Powder. 
I will forward to the honourable member copies of the statements issued on these matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The aggregate reserves, including the Outstanding Claims Provision, of the hospital benefits organisations at the end of each year since they were first registered under the National Health Act and detailed hereunder, together with the percentage of contributions which the increase in these reserves each year represented: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The registered medical and hospital benefits organisations generally pay benefits to their members in respect of medical or hospital services which attract Commonwealth benefits. 
Commonwealth medical benefits for medical services are set down in the Schedule to the National Health Act. There are a number of items in the Schedule under which a Commonwealth benefit is payable in respect of operations that result in the termination of a pregnancy. 
Commonwealth hospital benefits are available to patients who receive treatment in public and private hospitals approved as hospitals under the National Health Act 
No registered medical or hospital benefits organisation has rules which specifically exclude the payment of benefits in respect of abortions 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The operating expenses, including Special Account, of the hospital benefits organisations in each year since they were first registered under the National Health Act are detailed hereunder, together with the percentage of contributions these expenses represented: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rates of daily charges imposed in (a) public wards (b) intermediate wards and (c) private wards in each State and Territory in the first year that hospitals were approved under the National Health Act, are as follows: 
 I could not hear everything which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said because he had his back turned to me most of the time. I suppose he thought that he was less likely to be stabbed from this side of the House than from his own. The only time the Opposition gives a thought for the welfare of those who have fought for Australia or who are currently fighting for this country is when it thinks it can achieve some political end. This attitude sickens me. Over many years in this place honourable members opposite have been completely dishonest in their approach to the welfare of ex-servicemen except when they have seen some political advantage in espousing an interest in ex-servicemen. 
I, like many honourable members, have received representations from the very worthy bodies running the spastic centres and am considering those representations. There is some suggestion in the representations which have been made in relation to medical treatment covered by our health insurance scheme that there is some differentiation against spastics. That is not correct. However, the answer to the specific question is that I am currently considering the point that the honourable member raised. 
I do not propose to comment on the honourable genteman's opinions about the state of the hospital system, but I do remind him, as announced by me in the House -  - 
The honourable member asked his question; let me answer it. As I announced in the House, the group of recommendations by the Nimmo Committee which relate to the hospital benefit system are currently being discussed by the Commonwealth Government with the States. I indicated at the time that when full discussions had taken place the Government would consider these recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. Until then I have nothing further to add. 

 - Mr Speaker, the first meeting between Commonwealth and State officials on this matter took place on 2nd April of this year. 
As the honourable gentleman is aware, the Nimmo Committee made a number of recommendations affecting the financing of hospitals and the relations between the Commonwealth and the States in the hospital benefits scheme. Most of these interact, one on the other. It would be utterly irresponsible of the Government to make a decision in respect of one of those recommendations without making a decision in relation to all of them. Therefore the Government will wait until consultations with the States have been completed and it will make its decisions properly on the basis of all these recommendations. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
On 4th March last I was privileged to announce in the House the details of the Government's decision to implement its new health benefits plan. This decision was influenced to a very large degree by the recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee - and the plan will bring into effect the major recommendations made by that Committee relating to medical benefits and the administration of the voluntary health insurance organisations. The advances made possible by this Bill, in conjunction with the other improvements introduced by this Government in 1968 and 1969, will bring financial protection against the costs of medical and hospital treatment within the reach of every person in the community. At the same time the new health benefits plan will retain the basic principles which the Government believes are essential in any national welfare measure. 
The Bill now before the House provides the machinery for the payment of higher rates of Commonwealth and fund medical benefits, introduces new measures concerned with the administration of registered medical and hospital benefits organisations and provides assistance on a wider scale towards the cost of health insurance for families on low incomes. The new medical benefits plan is founded on the lists of most common fees that have been established throughout the whole range of medical services. These fees were determined by the Australian Medical Association on the basis of factual information regarding actual fees charged as shown in doctors' accounts submitted to medical benefits organisations. This information was supplemented by surveys carried out by the Australian Medical Association. 
There are 7 schedules in the Bill. The First Schedule sets out the new rates of Commonwealth benefit payable for each medical service and replaces the schedule of Commonwealth benefits contained in the present National Health Act. Supplementing this First Schedule are 6 associated schedules - 1 for each Slate. These supplementary schedules list the fund benefit payable in each State for each medical service and the amount that is to be met by the patient when the doctor charges the common fee. The legal phrase used in the Bill for the portion of the common fee to be met by the patient is 'specified excess'. The common fees that have been determined reflect existing charging patterns of the medical profession in the various States, and vary from State to State. It follows that if contributors are to receive adequate benefit rebates, then the benefits to which they are entitled must also vary as between States. The Bill provides for the fund benefits payable by organisations to vary from State to State and consequently it will be necessary for the contribution rates to be charged by organisations also to differ accordingly. In accordance with the practice since the medical benefits scheme was first introduced, Commonwealth benefits payable will be the same throughout Australia. 
The First Schedule in this Bill is different from the Schedule to the present Act in one important aspect, in that it provides for differential rates of Commonwealth benefits to be payable for 340 selected medical services depending on whether the service is rendered by a general practitioner or a specialist in the practice of his specialty. Since my statement to the House on 4th March, this aspect of the new medical benefits arrangements has been the subject of some controversy within the medical profession and, for that reason, I desire to bring the relevant facts to the attention of honourable members. 
The case for payment of differential benefits could not be better expressed than in the AMA's published statements of the material it submitted to the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Committee which stated, andI quote: 
From the contributors' point of view, the greatest weakness in the medical benefits scheme is the varying and unpredictable gap between fees charged and rebates received. . . . The major reason for unsatisfactory rebates is that many procedures are customarily performed by either a general practitioner or by a specialist. Typical examples are confinements and other obstetric procedures and common operations such as tonsillectomy, appendicectomy and hernia operations . . . 
Recommendation: There should be a differential benefit for certain procedures which are commonly carried out either by a general practitioner or by a specialist, to provide a greater Commonwealth Benefit for each such item in the Schedule, when performed by a specialist, when the patient is referred by another medical practitioner. 
I repeat that the case for differential benefits in the interests of the patient could not be better expressed than it is in that evidence given to the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Committee by the Australian Medical Association. Some medical practitioners now dispute the equity of differential benefits. They claim that the Government is discriminating against general practitioners by not imposing what would be, in effect, a financial penalty against patients treated by specialists. They also claim that the introduction of differential benefits will mean that many patients will seek the services of specialists for treatment which general practitioners are competent to provide and that, in turn, this will ultimately have an adverse effect on general practice. The Government does not accept this viewpoint, which implies that general practitioners do not enjoy the confidence of their patients. The Government believes that patients will continue to respect the judgment of their general practitioner as to whether they require specialist attention and that the protection against the cost of specialist treatment afforded by the new health benefits plan will not in any way prejudice the traditional relationships between patients and their general practitioners. 
I should also stress that, although we are seeking to provide patients with security against the costs of specialists' services, the Government does not wish to create a situation in which the cost of the new plan is inflated by unnecessary and frivolous demands for specialist treatment. For this reason, the payment of higher benefits for these specialists' services will be firmly based on referral to the specialist by another doctor, usually a general practitioner. It will be noted that clause 48 of the Bill provides authority for referral conditions to be prescribed by the regulations. The referral system is currently under review and discussions are being held with the Australian Medical Association. Upon the conclusion of those discussions a decision will be taken regarding any referral conditions to be prescribed by regulations - one proposal to be examined in this regard is that, to be valid for the purposes of the National Health Act, a referral should be in writing and on an official form. 
The identification of specialists for the purposes of the health benefits plan has also received the Government's attention. The registration of medical practitioners including specialists is, of course, a State government responsibility. However, not all Stales have implemented legislation providing for the registration of specialists and because of this, the Bill provides machinery for the recognition of specialists for the purposes of the National Health Act. The machinery will revolve around Specialists Recognition Advisory Committees which will be set up in each State. The membership of these committees will be made up of appropriately qualified medical practitioners appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Australian Medical Association. 
Provision has been made in the Bill for adjustments to the schedules to be prescribed by regulation. Such adjustments may be necessary as more comprehensive data, collected over a longer period, comes to hand regarding fees commonly charged by doctors; mainly in regard to medical procedures infrequently carried out. Also appropriate amounts for new medical procedures introduced from time to time will be fixed initially by regulation. However it is proposed that the amounts fixed in this way will be ratified by amendments to the Act. 
The Bill makes provision for the patient's share of the cost of an operation and the services directly associated with the operation not to exceed  $5  where the doctors concerned charge the common fee. This principle will also be applied in the situation where a patient undergoes 2 or more operations on the 1 occasion. Clause 10, providing as it does the machinery for paying an additional Commonwealth benefit, achieves this objective. As I said in my statement to the House on 4th March 1970 the cost to the Commonwealth of increasing 
Commonwealth medical benefits payments is estimated to be $29.5m in a full year. The new definition of 'professional service', in the Bill, recognises for benefit purposes services rendered by oral surgeons in operating theatres of approved hospitals. The services to be recognised under this provision will be prescribed by regulation. In future there will be only one table of fund medical benefits available to contributors in each State. This means that within each State all registered organisations will pay the same rates of benefits for medical services. Rates of ancillary benefits payable by organisations may vary as they do now. 
Under the new plan, contribution rates may vary as between organisations. The contribution rate to be charged by a particular fund will depend on an assessment of its future financial experience and the level of its reserves. A policy will be applied under which larger funds' free reserves - that is, reserves in excess of amounts held against unpresented claims and contributions paid in advance - will generally be limited to the equivalent of 3 months' contribution income. As in the past, proposals to vary contribution rates will be examined by the Registration Committee established under section 70 of the National Health Act and approved by the Minister for Health before being put into effect. 
Eligibility of individual contributors for the higher benefits authorised by this Bill will be dependent on contributions being made to the new table of fund benefits fixed for the State in which the fund is operating. Arrangements are being made for registered medical benefits organisations to have the new tables of fund benefits introduced by the date of commencement of the new plan. It is expected that a majority of contributors will have enrolled in, or transferred to, the new tables with effect from the date of commencement of the new arrangements. At the same time, however, it is recognised that in some cases delays may occur before contributors make arrangements to enrol in the new table and a transitional period of 3 months will be allowed to enable arrangements to be made in all cases. This period may be extended where a contributor has paid his contributions in advance for a period extending beyond the 3 months. Registered organisations will, of course, if the contributor wishes, adjust con tributions paid in advance so that he may become a contributor to the new table without delay. 
These are the main provisions included in the Bill in relation to the new medical benefits scheme. An essential factor in the successful application of the common fee concept is that there be a proper understanding throughout the community of what the new plan aims to do. In order to further public understanding of the plan, my Department is arranging for the publication of information booklets explaining in detail bow the plan will operate. This explanatory information, including details of the most common fee for the most frequently used medical services, will be made widely available to the general public. 
I should like to stress again the Government's belief that the co-operation of the medical profession in adhering to the lists of most common fees will be vital to the success of the new medical benefits arrangements. The Government is confident that this co-operation will be forthcoming because the common fee concept on which the new arrangements are based provides a satisfactory method of financing medical care in a way which takes account of the unique relationship that exists between the medical profession and the general community. As I have stated on many previous occasions and emphasise again now, the Government strongly supports the common fee concept primarily because we earnestly desire to provide the Australian people with a substantial degree of security against the cost of medical treatment The Government is also cognizant of the desirability of conducting the health benefits plan in such a way that the standards of medical practice and the legitimate interests of the medical profession are effectively safeguarded. We are convinced that, with the co-operation of doctors in adhering to the common fees, patients can be provided with the security which they require and to which we firmly believe they are entitled. At the same time, the profession's wholehearted co-operation will provide it with the best possible guarantee of preservation of the freedoms which individual doctors now enjoy and the best possible protection of the profession's own interests. 
I should like to refer now to the provisions of the Bill relating to the administration of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations. The main provisions in the Bill concern the new requirements that the 'organisations will have to observe if they are to participate in the plan. All organisations will be required to obtain specific registration by the Minister in respect of each State in which they wish to carry on business. For the purposes of separate State registration, the Northern Territory is deemed to be a State but the Australian Capital Territory is deemed to be part of New South Wales. 
Open organisations - those in which membership is open to the public - will be required to establish and operate a separate fund in each State in which they are registered to carry on business and to maintain and submit separate financial statements each year in respect of, each fund. This will enable the separate identification and assessment of the financial experience of the organisation's operations in each State. Approval for an open fund to operate in a particular State will not be continued unless it is shown that economic and efficient operations in that State can be expected. lt will be practicable for this course to be taken without undue interference with the fund or funds operated by the organisations in other States. So that new conditions of registration may be uniformly applied at the one time, and existing conditions of registration reviewed, the Bill requires that each organisation shall apply for re-registration before 1st October 1970. In applying for a new registration, an open organisation operating in more than one State will, in accordance with clause S3, be required to submit a scheme for establishing separate funds in each State in which it wishes to operate. 
In the event of the Minister deciding to cancel the separate State registration of an organisation or the total registration of an organisation, such cancellation may not be finalised until all the contributors involved have been given the opportunity to transfer to some other fund conducted by a registered organisation of their choice without any loss of benefit rates or entitlements. Restricted membership organisations will not be required to maintain separate funds in the various States in respect of which they are registered and will not be required to submit separate financial returns in respect of each State. Of course, restricted mem bership organisations will, as now, be expected to operate efficiently and economically overall. In future a report, comprising the financial returns submitted by registered medical and hospital benefits organisations, will be tabled in both Houses of Parliament. For this purpose, organisations will be required to submit returns each year in respect of the year ending on 30th June. The first report tabled will be in respect of the year ending 30th June 1971. 
I wish to turn now to the position of low income families under the new health benefits plan. In October 1969 the National Health Act was amended to provide free health insurance for persons receiving unemployment and sickness benefits, for families with weekly incomes not exeeding $39 and for migrants during their first 2 months in Australia. As a result of the increase in the Commonwealth minimum weekly wage in December 1969 it is proposed to increase the eligibility level for full health insurance for low income families to $42.50 per week. The Bill also provides for graduated assistance toward the costs of contributing for health insurance to families with weekly incomes not exceeding $48.50. 
In future, families with incomes of up to $42.50 per week will be entitled to full medical benefits and also to hospital benefits equal to the cost of public ward treatment without any payment of contributions. Families with incomes between $42.50 per week and $45.50 per week will be eligible for the same benefits on payment of contributions at one-third the usual rates, while families with incomes between $45.50 and $48.50 per week will be eligible for the benefits on payment of contributions at two-thirds the usual rate. It is estimated that some 84,000 families and 271,000 persons will be eligible for assistance, because of the extension of the assistance, and that the additional cost in a full year will be $3m. Families eligible for this assistance may secure insurance cover higher than that needed to meet public ward hospital charges by paying the extra contributions involved. 
Finally, I would like to mention the amendment to section 9b of the National Act authorising the provision of rubella vaccine for mass immunisation campaigns. Because of the developments in rubella, vaccine research and the grave consequences of infection with rubella to the unborn child, the Government has decided that the safe and effective rubella vaccine now available should be made available free of cost. The vaccine which has been chosen is manufactured in Belgium from the Cendehill strain and it will be imported and distributed on behalf of the Commonwealth by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
A Bill to amend the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act to authorise the Laboratories to undertake the importation and sale to the Commonwealth of any vaccine that the Commonwealth may wish to make available for immunisation campaigns is also proposed. The rubella vaccine will be made available on similar terms as for poliomyelitis and measles vaccine, namely, the Commonwealth will provide the vaccine free of charge and the States will be responsible for their campaigns, including planning, administration and the maintenance of the necessary records. 
In conclusion, I wish to advise honourable members that to facilitate the understanding of the amendments proposed by this Bill, it is intended to make available to the House a memorandum containing a consolidation of the National Health Act as it would appear after amendment by this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House is to authorise the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission to import and sell to the Commonwealth, for the purpose of immunisation campaigns, those vaccines referred to in section 9b of the National Health Act. At present that Act refers to poliomyelitis and measles vaccines and included in the amendments to that Act which are before the House is one which contains a proposal to include rubella-German measles - vaccine in section 9b. 
The Serum Laboratories have for a number of years been purchasing from overseas poliomyelitis vaccine, and more recently measles - Morbilli - vaccine on behalf of the Commonwealth which makes the vaccines available free of charge to State and Territory authorities for mass immunisation campaigns. Once the vaccine is cleared for issue in Australia the Commonwealth Department of Health, on receipt of requests from the States and Territories, asks the Commission to forward the appropriate quantities of the vaccine to the States and Territories. The Commission then claims reimbursement from the Department of Health for the vaccine supplied in accordance with a price that has been determined by the Minister under section 22 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act. 
It was during consideration of making rubella vaccine available for immunisation campaigns that doubt was expressed whether the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1966 authorised the Commission to import vaccine and sell it to the Commonwealth. Legal advice is that the Act as it stands does not authorise the Commission to import vaccine for the purpose proposed. It is for this reason that it is proposed to amend the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act, I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
The Committee  has  had two meetings, one on1 8th-2 1st November 1969 and one on 17th- 19th March 1970. 
The following officers from the States and Territories attended one or both of these meetings - 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  does not seem to have talked much about the matter he has raised, but I would like to take up his assertion about the critical state of affairs in the Australian hospitals system. Nobody would suggest that the hospital situation in Australia is perfect. I do not know of any country in which it is. But I do know from my own personal observations that the system under which we have provided hospital beds and hospital standards in Australia over the years has created a situation which is as good as any I have seen anywhere in the world. There is no parallel between this system and the United Kingdom situation - a system so admired by the Australian Labor Party - where everything is tax financed, where there is no contribution by the patient to hospitals and where for  20  years after the introduction of the national health service not one new hospital was built. It is only in the last couple of years that Britain has started to produce new hospitals again. This has produced a situation in which, unless a patient were in a critical state he might have to wait years to have, for instance, elective surgery done. This is what the system the Labor Party advocates has done in the United Kingdom. The average time to wait for a hernia operation in the United Kingdom is  5  years. This is the waiting time for almost any operation for any condition which will not kill the patient. This is the system they admire. 
For all the theoretical deficiencies of our system in relation to planning and other aspects, that is not the situation we have in Australia. A patient can get a hospital bed of good standard1 and at the level he desires almost at will in Australia. This is the test of our hospital system, not these theoretical arguments about the way it is financed or the unproven assertions about lack of planning. I say that the system in Australia, developed primarily by the States but also by the Commonwealth, in regard to the hospital benefits scheme and other arrangements has produced hospital care of a very high standard in which people can get hospital attention when they require it and at the level they require it. I believe that the practical test of our hospital system shows it is much better than theoretically vague assertions such as those put forward by the Australian Labor Party suggest it is. There is no doubt that if Labor came into office and put into operation its proposals for a largely tax financed hospital system, with tax finance the only source of revenue of the hospital system, we would very quickly move to the situation existing in the United Kingdom. We really will be in trouble. People really will need to wait for hospital accommodation. We really will have to become concerned about the standards of hospital accommodation in Australia. 
I am not surprised that the Australian Labor Party should seek to direct attention to the so-called inadequacies of the hospital system. I am not surprised at all, because what the Labor Party wants to do is to divert public attention from the very attractive new health benefits plan proposed by the Government which is enshrined in the legislation that I introduced into the House yesterday - a health benefits plan which on the medical side is so much better than the one that the Labor Party put forward last year on the basis of a scheme proposed by a couple of academic economists. The members of the Labor Party must raise a hue and cry now before our equally attractive arrangements in respect of hospitals are worked out after we have consulted fully with the States on the basis of the recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry on Health Insurance, commonly known as the Nimmo Committee. So, I pin this debate down for what it is: It is a political diversion by the Labor Party. 
The essence of the matter of public importance raised for discussion is what is alleged to be our delay in implementing the recommendations of the Nimmo committee or discussing with the States the recommendations of that Committee with respect to the Commonwealth. Let me say this first: The responsibility of the Commonwealth is to the patient. Our approach, ever since the beginning of the insurance scheme, has been to assist the patient to meet the costs of hospital and medical treatment. That is, treatment provided by other people - in the case of medical treatment, by medical practitioners and, in the case of hospital treatment, by hospitals largely run by the State governments - in terms of priorities in respect of the patient. The welfare of the patient is the primary objective that the Government always has in mind. 
The medical scheme in the mind of the Government had a much higher priority than the hospitals scheme for the very good reason that a considerable gap had developed between insurance rebates under the medical scheme and doctors' bills. Patients were required to pay the amount of this gap out of their own pockets. In relation to the hospitals scheme, as everybody knows, provided a patient is insured adequately to the level which he desires, there is no gap. So, from the point of view of the patient, as far as the Government was concerned, the reconstruction of the medical scheme had a higher priority. A second point was the nature of the recommendations by the Nimmo Committee. I said that I would read out those recommendations. I will not read them out fully, but I think it worth pointing out to the House just what the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee are because it is implied in the way in which the Opposition has framed its request for the discussion of this matter of public importance - although the honourable member for Oxley, who has just spoken, in justice did put a qualification on it - that the Nimmo Committee in a way supported the approach of the Labor Party with respect to hospitals. In fact, it did no such thing. 
It certainly did not support what the Labor Party recommended and what the Labor Party is proposing, and that is- 
The honourable member has asked a long and detailed question. I will be glad to address myself to it and give him a full reply. Part of bis question related to pensions. There are arrangements in certain circumstances for the payment of pensions to patients in mental hospitals but, as he knows, that is the concern of my colleague the Minister for Social Services, and he should seek the information from him, if he really wants it and does not know it already. 
With respect to hospital benefits, the situation is that traditionally the Government has regarded the care of the mentally ill as primarily a State matter. When we brought in our hospital benefits scheme the States accepted full responsibility for the care of the mentally ill. They were provided for in institutions run by the States and no charges were levied on them. As the hospital benefits scheme was designed to relieve the patient of some of the costs of illness, it therefore did not apply where no costs were involved. The Commonwealth Government has taken the view that it discharges its responsibilities in relation to the mentally ill through the States Grants (Mental Institutions) Act which has made available to the States over the years a very large sum in capital grants for mental institutions. In recognition of that the legislation is so framed as to exclude from the payment of hospital benefits people in institutions wholly or primarily carried on for the mentally ill. 
The answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman is no. The medical profession has never raised with me the question of basing our medical benefits scheme on the time aspect - in other words, a higher benefit for a longer time spent. This has been floated in various quarters but it has never been raised officially. I think that, generally speaking, the organised medical profession realises that it would be pretty impracticable to organise a scheme based on that principle and that it is reasonable for the profession in its approach to this scheme to accept the swings and roundabouts principle in relation to its fee charging and therefore its benefits. 
The second question asked by the honourable gentleman was in relation to the operation where the patient would have to pay only $5. He asked which of the various participants would receive the $5. Of course, this question applies only in circumstances where the patient sends the bill to the benefit fund before paying the doctor. If the patient pays the doctor first, of course it does not apply. If he sends the bill to the fund first and receives a cheque from the fund, this question will arise. The answer to it is an administrative one which has not been decided finally, but it will be done in one of two ways. 
The probable way in which it will be done is that the medical practitioner whose fee is the highest - that is generally the surgeon - will have the task of collecting the $5. The alternative would be to divide the $5 in proportion to the charges of the doctors. But I think that it will be done finally in the first way that I have outlined. 
1 direct the attention of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  to clause 5 (9.) of the Bill, which reads:  (9.) If an approved credit union - 
has failed to comply with a requirement of the Secretary under the last preceding sub-section, the Secretary may, by instrument under his hand, withdraw the approval given in relation to the credit union, but the withdrawal does not take effect until the expiration of six months after the date of the withdrawal. 
This gives a person 6 months clear notice in which to transfer his savings to an acceptable form of account. 
 The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has asked a question and although he did it in a most belligerent way I, being a mild mannered sort of person, propose to answer the point that he and the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  raised. In essence they asked: Why have these penal provisions been inserted in clause 14 which is new section 26a? The answer is that the penalty of $500 reflects the very serious view that the Government believes should be taken where young people who are saving for a home are led to believe, mistakenly, that the savings they are making with a particular credit union are acceptable for the purposes of the Homes Savings Grant Act. The proposed new section will protect young people in 2 main ways. Firstly, it requires a credit union whose approval under the Act has been withdrawn to advise each of its members and each prospective member that the approval has been withdrawn. Secondly, it prohibits a credit union that has not been approved under the Act or a credit union that has been approved but whose approval has been withdrawn, from directly or indirectly representing or advertising that it is an approved credit union. I hope that there will be no need ever to invoke the penalty that is provided in this new section. The possibility does exist, however, that some young people could find that they are denied a grant of $500 because they have discovered too late that they had held their savings with a credit union that they had been led to believe was approved under the Act but in fact was not an approved credit union. The Government is concerned to see that this does not occur. 
Remainder of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following States have given notice that they intend to seek financial assistance under the Slates Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 1969 - 
New South Wales on 16th October 1969 advised its acceptance in principle; 
South Australia on 17th October 1969 agreed to participate; 
Western Australia on 10th November 1969 advised its acceptance in principle and intention to participate; 
Tasmania on 6th November 1969 advised its acceptance in principle. 
In addition the Acting Premier of Queensland advised on 6th March 1969 his State's intention to launch, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, a comprehensive and coordinated programme of home care. 
No States have yet made claims for financial assistance under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1961, chemists' remuneration for dispensing National Health prescriptions has comprised a dispensing fee of 30 cents for a readyprepared benefit and 55 cents for an extemporaneouslyprepared benefit, together with  a  mark-up (calculated on the wholesale price of the benefit) which is 33&amp;% for ready-prepared benefits and 50% for extemporaneously-prepared benefits. 
No. 
and (4) Chemists' remuneration for dispensing National Health prescriptions was last reviewed in mid-1969, when the Government decided that payments to chemists for dispensing National Health prescriptions would remain unaltered. This decision was taken after examining the report on a survey of the earnings, costs and profits of pharmacy which was carried out by an independent firm of consultants. When conveying this decision to the Pharmacy Guild the Government invited the Guild to participate in a new survey so that a further review of chemists' remuneration could be carried out but the Guild has not yet signified whether it will accept the offer of a new survey. 
On behalf of the honourable member, I will address his query to the State Ministers for Health, who have responsibility for the matters he has raised. 
My direct answer to the honourable gentleman's question would be much the same as the answer T gave to the honourable member for Kingston. But it appears to me that my remark has rather stung honourable gentlemen opposite who for their own political purposes have represented the Australian hospital and health system in the worst possible light. This was done by a number of honourable gentlemen opposite in the debate. What I pointed out in the debate was that the honourable member for Oxley was lavish with his praise of the United Kingdom hospitals system. 
I will be glad to attempt to obtain the information sought by the honourable gentleman if it is obtainable. Among other places, I will refer the question to the Morbidity Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council which, I am sure, will be interested in it. 
1 have been ticking them off on my fingers; presumably there is one to go. I think that I must give to the honourable member the same answer as I gave to the honourable member for Kingston.  I  will attempt to find out from my colleagues in the States the information that he has sought. I will make the additional point that in general if these points that honourable members opposite are making from the depths of their technical knowledge are valid and relevant ones in relation to the hospital systems no doubt they will be brought forward by the State Ministers for Health and their departments in the discussions thar are currently going on but it is their responsibility to run the hospital systems and it is their responsibility to decide if these points are .significant in relation to the standards of their hospitals. 
The honourable gentleman has placed me in a little bit of difficulty because he has very much revived the debate in relation to this. But the answer to his question is no. A system which produces a situation as we have in this country, where anybody can obtain a hospital bed of a standard of his own choice virtually on demand, cannot have too much wrong with it. I think in those circumstances a hospital bed which gives a high standard of care and is available virtually on demand - and that is the situation in Australia - cannot have too much wrong with it. 
I rise because of the usual tendentious speech of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and I think an interjection that I made is worth explaining. There has been a lot said about the extra time needed for debate on this sort of matter in this House. I want to go on record as saying that if honourable members did not go around the track 3 times - in other words, saying the same thing over and over again - our present hours of sitting would be perfectly sufficient for debates. I think that the honourable member for Oxley's contribution today is a perfect example of that. He just kept reiterating the same thing. He has alleged that my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who represents in this place the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  did not give an undertaking that the integrated laundry and sterilising services would be built. I draw the honourable member's attention to what was said today by the Minister. 
The Government agrees thai full benefit of integration of laundry and sterilising services be enjoyed as soon as possible and that expenditure at Canberra 'Hospital on interim facilities should be at a minimum. 
The reason why we have not said anything about the Government's intentions in respect of that, apart from this statement which by implication means that the facilities will be built, is that this is not part of the reference to the Committee. The honourable member knows that full well, but as he has asked for information I will give it to him. The building will be completed, we would hope, in June 1974 and be operational at the beginning of 1975, several months after the opening of the second stage of the Woden Hospital. Planning is going on at the present moment and plans will be taken to the Government, I hope, in the near future. 
The other point I want to make is that the honourable member for Oxley out of his ignorance alleged that because of poor planning the works under reference at the Canberra Hospital were just money down the drain. That is plainly incorrect. What in fact will happen is that by the time this new facility is built the existing equipment at the Canberra Hospital will have become obsolete and will need to be replaced. Therefore at the end of that time the Canberra Hospital will have no more equipment in this respect than it would have required anyway. There will not be one penny spent which would not need to be spent at the Hospital. The existing equipment at the Canberra Hospital will be obsolete or will reach the end if its useful life in  3  or  4  years and therefore the extra equipment being installed would have been required anyway at that point. So we are not installing a greater capacity than would at any time be required. 
The other point is that - and I would have thought that the honourable member for Oxley with his penchant for planning would appreciate this - things like these integrated units come in very large lumps. Is the honourable member suggesting that we should have installed facilities of this size, completed and ready for operation at the time when the new facilities at the Canberra Hospital will come into operation? Is that actually what he is suggesting? Is this what planning would have produced? Of course, what he is suggesting would have produced a situation in which there would be at that point of time an enormous over capacity and an enormous waste of public money. One of the things which the honourable member for Oxley does not seem to appreciate and one of the things that makes great difficulty in this general field of hospitals and hospital bed provision is that economically these facilities come in very large lumps and however carefully one plans for a situation one inevitably finds that one either has too few beds or too many beds. This is in the nature of the case when one is producing hospitals of  300, 400, 500  or  600  beds. It is inevitable in the nature of the case when installing something like a central laundry and sterilising facility which economically has to be built to provide for large numbers of beds. I believe that the honourable member for Oxley is completely mistaken and completely wrong headed in suggesting that if this central laundry and sterilising facility had been produced much earlier than it will be produced this would have actually saved money. 
The final thing that I would like to say to the honourable member is that he obviously has not understood the Woden and Calvary situation. If he had properly read the report of the Standing Committee on Public Works to which he referred - I suspect that he has properly read it and just omitted to mention this particular aspect because it did not suit him - he would have found that the Committee was very critical1 of the proposal to separate the  2  stages of the Woden Hospital. The separation of the  2  stages of the Woden Hospital was an uneconomic process. However the Committee went along with this proposition of separating the  2  stages of the Woden Hospital for one reason and one reason only. It is for that reason that the Government took the actual decision. The Government felt that by separating them and phasing in the Calvary Hospital in the time phase we would have beds available from the Calvary Hospital and we would produce hospital beds more quickly in Canberra. What happened was that, because of a number of events which I will not go over here but which have been fully explained in the statement I have made, we were not able to get the Calvary beds in time. The Government made a decision to return to the previous and economic proposition of following on straight away with stage  2  of the Woden Hospital after stage  1.  That, incidentally, is one of the reasons that made it possible for the Government to accept this proposal which is under reference. 
The honourable gentleman has had a lot to say. He has made a lot of tendentious statements, some of them untrue. He has indulged in a great deal of what I must believe to be deliberate misrepresentation. When I draw his attention to the fact that he has obviously and deliberately chosen to suppress something the Public Works Committee has said, he says to me: 'Rubbish'. What has happened is that in the event that the Government has not been able to obtain the Calvary Hospital beds in the time it hoped it would, we are reverting to the proposal which both the Government itself and the Public Works Committee thought was the most reasonable and economic proposition - to follow on with stage 2 of the Woden Hospital after stage 1. We have given the Little Company of Mary an undertaking that if it is prepared to do so we will guarantee the building of a hospital by it under the previous arrangements - a 300-bed hospital to start in 1974 and the beds to become available in 1976 which will phase the beds produced into the bed needs. What is the honourable gentleman suggesting? Is he suggesting that we should build both stages of the Woden Hospital and Calvary at the same time, something which in everyone's opinion as far as I know would involve a substantial oversupply of hospital beds in Canberra? Is this what he is suggesting by the criticisms he is making? 
Unlike the honourable member for Oxley I have not repeated myself and I shall not repeat myself now. I have dealt with the ill-based criticisms that were made by the honourable member. In relation to this reference and to every other reference that has been made to the Public Works Committee in my time as MinisterI would like to compliment the Committee on the standard of the job it has done and particularly compliment it on its understanding of the enormous difficulties of precise forecasting, planning and provision of hospital services in a situation like the Canberra one where the population is growing at such a rate. 
DREVERINGHAM (Capricornia) [3.34] - I just want to raise a few points that have been brought up in the course of the debate. I feel that the important thing that must strike everyone who has listened to or reads what has been said is this Government's disregard of the Public Works Committee's report and in particular the disregard of the Committee's recommendations and the disregard of the Catholic Diocese which is perhaps the most successful of all hospital planning authorities in this country. Anybody who has had cause to be treated in Mater hospitals and other Catholic hospitals in this country can confirm that that church is a very efficient body in this direction. 
The Government has shown disregard of community need and I submit that the only basis and the only reason for this disregard - the disregard of our own parliamentary specialists, the Catholic hospital specialists and the needs of Canberra - is that the Government has had regard to two lesser matters. One is the day to day election pressures which have been accentuated by the forthcoming by-election in the area; the second is because of an equally shortsighted fear of a credit squeeze. The Government did not want to embark on a major expenditure in the short  run;  it would rather have to pay a few years later and leave it to a Labor government which would have to foot the bill for the major work that must follow this interim measure. 
The alternatives were clearly set out in the Committee's report The first alternative provided for a laundry facility separate from the Canberra Community Hospital. This is set out in paragraph 30 of the report. The second alternative which the Government is proposing, and which the Committee does not recommend, is set out in 2 parts. The first part is the minimum alterations to the existing facilities at Canberra Hospital to carry 150 temporary beds and the initially occupied beds at Cavalry Hospital, which would mean another 200. This would mean a total capacity of 950 beds. 1 take it, by what the Minister is proposing, that he is going to make this provision for the next 3 or 4 years to deal with 950 beds, as the Committee states, including the 200 beds at Calvary. If this is so, how do we fare if the Calvary project is shelved? Are we then not getting a 200-bed capacity surplus in the laundry facility by adopting this interim measure - if we scrap the Calvary project? The Minister for Health said: 'Is the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  suggesting that we build both hospitals together?' I say that the honourable member is suggesting simply what the Committee recommends in paragraph 45 of its report: 
That the Government should reconsider . . . providing laundry and central sterilising services  . .with a view to 
proceeding immediately with the design and construction of permanent laundry and sterilising facilities on a site other than Canberra Hospital; and 
constructing such additional facilities at Canberra Hospital as are required to provide an interim service, pending completion of the permanent facility. 
That is all my colleague the honourable member for Oxley has suggested and the Minister is going ahead to build this surplus capacity which within 3 or 4 years could be rendered redundant. He has stated that the Government's stand is thatfull integration should be enjoyed as far as possible and that the interim facility ought to be kept to a minimum. The point I have just made is that the interim facilities have not been kept to a minimum and will not make the integrated facilities enjoyable as soon as possible. If it is true, as the Minister says, that the existing facilities at Canberra Hospital will be obsolete in 3 or 4 years, it is not sensible at this stage to install1 something which will also be out of date in 3 or 4 years. This would be duplication which could not be justified. 
To highlight the central point which I think arose from my colleague's statement that the Government has allowed things to get out of hand and has been guilty of neglect in the past and is now belatedly and fearfully trying to catch up in order to preserve its chances of offsetting the criticism that is coming on this issue, I would like to refer to the Committee's report. Firstly, we find from paragraph 1 1 that the project for the Little Company of Mary was planned to be occupied late in 1971. The report states: 
The target date has now slipped behind and it is now thought that the first patient will be taken about February 1973. 
The target date may slip so far behind that in fact there will be no beds available there for which this interim facility is designed, partly, to cater. At paragraph 35 the report states: 
It was evident to the Committee that the time already taken in planning the proposed services has not been used as profitably as it might have been, with the result that the time now available in which to complete designs and arrange construction is very short. 
Is this not the old, old story of stop gap and last minute activity by a tired and disinterested government? Is this not typical of the whole pattern of health and hospital services in Australia? Never is there leadership from the Commonwealth, even in the Territories which are directly and totally its personal responsibility. Yet this is the sole responsibility of the federal level of government. Not only has the Government disregarded the report of the Public Works Committee; I want to point out where it also has disregarded the planning of the Catholic order. In a report in the 'Canberra Times' of 23rd February it is stated: 
Archbishop Cahill said that although the original approval for the hospital had been given by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  to Archbishop 
O'Brien in 1966, the first that he (Archbishop Cahill) had heard of the change of policy was through the press release last Friday. 1 expect the Government will be in touch with me regarding this change of policy', he said. 
This is the sort of pattern about which I am complaining. There is no consultation with the people involved in this change of policy. The first they heard about it was what appeared in the Press. The only aim of the Government's policy is to try to get a bit of favourable publicity. Its policy is not aimed at providing services. What justification can there be for trying to get a little bit of kudos from releasing something to the Press when the matter has not been discussed with one of the principals involved in the overall planning? This is a hotch potch and an incompetent patch-up job. I trust that the people of Australia, particularly those in the Australian Capital Territory, will take due notice of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The purposes for which  a  War Service Homes loan may be granted are set out in the War Service Homes Act and include the erection, completion or enlargement of  a  dwelling-house subject to the directions of the Minister as to matters of general policy. A loan for the building of a workshop to be used for home carpentry or a similar hobby could not be granted unless the work came within 1 of these categories. This question could only be answered following an examination of a particular proposal. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Building societies do not. as a general practice, accept applications for bousing loans unless finance is available or in sight. They do not maintain waiting lists. Accordingly, the State authorities administering the Home Builders' Account provisions of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement are unable to furnish the information sought. The  number  of loans approved by building societies during 1968-69 from Home Builders' Account funds in the various States was approximately 5,300. 
As I explained in the statement J made to the House early in March and in my second reading speech on the National Health Bill, it is the view of the Government that, for the common fee system to work, it is vitally important that everybody have a knowledge not only of the common fees themselves but of the way in which the system works. As I pointed out then, it is intended that there will be a very widespread publicity campaign to ensure that the level of understanding of the system by the public is as high as possible. I would make the point in relation to the remainder of the honourable gentleman's question that the benefits which will be obtained by the public, when the new health benefits plan is operating, will be immeasurable, and in order of importance this is very much greater and has a very much higher priority than the matters which the honourable member chose to raise. 
There have been difficulties with the State of Victoria in regard to an incinerator in Melbourne. I would not say that the honourable gentleman was right in claiming that this has been going on for a decade. In fact, the Commonwealth made an offer to, the States in 1966 to provide the full capital costs of building incinerators at ports around Australia as a measure to reduce the risk of an exotic disease coming into Australia. This offer was accepted by most States as a generous offer and, as a result, incinerators have steadily been built around the Australian coast. Victoria did not accept the Commonwealth's offer and it has not yet done so. Victoria claimed that it was the Commonwealth's responsibility both to maintain and run the incinerators and to meet their replacement costs. The Commonwealth has argued - and this has been accepted by most of the other States- that traditionally the actual cost of rubbish disposal at the ports has been a matter for the port authorities and that in any case it should not be a charge on State or Commonwealth funds but properly is a charge on the ship owners. 
In 1968 the Commonwealth Government, in order to get some action in Victoria, agreed to provide moneys for these incinerators without agreement on the points in dispute. As a result, incinerators have been provided and paid for by the Commonwealth at Portland, Western Port and, J think, Geelong. As the honourable gentleman says, the present problem relates to the incinerator at Melbourne. In this case the port authorities called tenders for an incinerator without any consultation with my Department and on a basis which completely disregarded the discussions that had taken place with my Department in 1968. In essence the problem is that my Department regards the incinerator as too large and too expensive for the purpose for which it is intended. I have high hopes that the matter will be resolved soon. Discussions are currently taking place to bring the matter to an end, but I make the point that one does have a responsibility to pay some regard to the proper use of the taxpayer's money. The fact that satisfactory arrangements have been made in relation to a great number of incinerators around the Australian coast creates, in my view, a strong presumption that the Commonwealth has not been unreasonable in its approach to this matter. 
No, 1 have not seen the report. In the normal course of events in relation to my responsibilities as Commonwealth Minister for Health the facts of this situation would not be brought to my attention. They would be brought to the attention of the person who is responsible for this matter, that is, the Victorian Minister for Health. 
There will be a variety of information. The final form of it has not been decided because, as the honourable gentleman is aware, the legislation relating to this matter has not yet been passed by this Parliament. However, I would be very glad when the legislation has passed the Parliament and it is therefore possible to finalise the explanation to let him or anybody else pronounce a view on it. But I do make the point that we are talking about 2 separate things here. My Department, the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department - others perhaps - that provide benefits to the public do as a standard pattern provide information pamphlets in respect of the benefits that they make available so that the public can be informed. That is done by my Department and by the other Departments and that practice will continue. 
But it has also been the practice, certainly in my Department - I cannot speak for the others - that when a departure is being made from existing arrangements, particularly a departure of a substantial nature, where it is necessary for the public both to understand the new arrangements and to be aware of them so as to get the benefits additional methods are employed. For instance, the Leader of the Opposition will be aware, if he reads the Press at all or if he listens to the radio, that at the time of the introduction of the subsidised medical scheme there was a pretty widespread advertising campaign by Press advertising, by radio advertising and, to a certain extent, by advertising on television. Pamphlets also were put out which were available from the traditional sources. It was felt in that case that, in relation to a new departure which involved completely new entitlements and particularly where it was necessary for people to be aware that these entitlements were available in order for them to get the benefits, this sort of departure was justified. 
What we propose to do in the present case is justified on the same grounds. The pamphlet will refer not only to the common fee but also to our subsidised medical arrangements. We have found that these other measures taken in respect of the subsidised medical service have not reached as many people as we intended that scheme to reach. We feel that, on the basis of that experience, if these benefits are to be available to the people who need them most and for whom they are intended, we need additional methods, on a once and for all basis, in this case. The existing methods of distribution in doctor's surgeries, in the offices of my Department and so on will continue as usual. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 1st January 1958, Comomnwealth additional hospital benefit was increased to $1.20 per day in respect of hospital charges incurred by persons insured for fund benefit of at least $1.60 per day. This Commonwealth additional hospital benefit, together wilh Commonwealth ordinary hospital benefit of 80 cents per day, a total of $2.00 per day, was payable to insured persons accommodated in hospitals. At that time, for the payment of benefits, hospitals included 'unrecognised' hospitals. However, as from 1st January 1963, 'unrecognised' hospitals were approved as nursing homes. 
Commonwealth benefit of $2.00 per day in respect of qualified patients accommodated in premises approved as nursing homes under the provisions of the National Health Act, without the need for the patients to be insured, was introduced on 1st January 1963. It is unusual for 'C class hospitals to be approved as nursing homes. 
There has been an increase of approximately 31% in the Consumer Price Index since 1st January 1958. 
In previous years the figures available to my Department on hospital costs were those published in the Commonwealth Year Book in relation to public hospitals and public nursing homes. Statistics have now become available following surveys conducted by my Department of both public hospital costs and nursing home costs. The latter costs are. of course, more applicable to the question. During 1967-68 the average bed day cost for public hospitals was calculated al $17.81 whilst the latest figures for public and private nursing homes show that in 1966-67 the average bed day cost was $5.10. Comparison of this latter figure with costs which applied when the $2.00 per day was introduced is not possible as relevant earlier cost figures are not available. 
On 1st January 1969, the Commonwealth introduced a Supplementary benefit of $3.00 per day payable, in addition to the existing $2.00 per day benefit, lo patients accommodated in approved nursing homes who need and receive intensive nursing home care. This benefit is currently being received by approximately 43 per cent of all patients accommodated in approved nursing homes. Due mainly to this new benefit, Commonwealth expenditure on nursing home benefits has increased from an actual $24.5m in 1967-68 to an estimated $44. 3m in 1969-70 being an increase of 80 per cent. Expenditure in 1969-70 on Commo nursing home benefits to 28th February 1970 is $18. 8m ordinary benefits, and $ 12.2m Supplementary benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of payments under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme commencing the financial year 1960-61 for the (a) unit cost and (b) total cost of (i) ready prepared items and (ii) extemporaneous items are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of payments under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme since 1960-61 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
No. 
The Medical Research in Aborigines (Reference) Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council considers proposals for medical research projects, involving Aboriginals, referred to it by the  Chairman  of Council or the Medical Research Advisory Committee of Council. The Sub-committee makes recommendations to the Medical Research Advisory Committee on the research value and medical ethics of the project under consideration, and its effects on the people being studied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is. as follows: 
No changes have been made inthe conditions under which pensioners are granted outpatient and in-patient treatment in hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Insofar as the conditions and circumstances in which free hospital treatment is made available for pensioners by public hospitals in the various States are concerned, the position is as 1 stated in my reply on 10th September 1968 that these are matters for the government authority in each State. 
The effect which relaxations of the means test have on the use and cost of State hospital facilities was discussed at the Australian Health Ministers' Conference held in Adelaide on 1 8th- 20th June 1969. 
At that stage it was considered that the question of increasing benefits for hospitalisation of pensioners was a matter which could be more appropriately dealt with in conjunction with the relevant proposals of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo Committee). 
The question was again discussed at the Australian Health Minister's Conference held in Hobart on 4th-6th March 1970. It was agreed that the Commonwealth Government's plans to reconstruct the medical benefit schedule cleared the way for closer consideration of other aspects of health insurance in which the Nimmo Committee had made recommendations, including the matter of Commonwealth payment to State hospitals for treatment of pensioners. 
It was agreed that early discussions would be held between Commonwealth and State officials to consider this aspect, along with other recommendations of the Nimmo Committee dealing with hospital financing and insurance. 
These discussions have already commenced, and will continue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The operating expenses, including Special Account, of the medical benefits organisations in each year since they were first registered under the National Health Act are detailed hereunder, together with the percentage of contributions these expenses represented: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The aggregate reserves, including the Outstanding claims Provision, of the medical benefits organisations at the end of each year since they were first registered under the National Health Act are detailed hereunder, together with the percentage of contributions which the increase in these reserves each year represented: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Medical and hospital benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act are not required to have a specific rule dealing with the disposition of their assets and reserves in the event of winding-up. The position is that one of the conditions subject to which organisations are registered is that contributions to medical or hospital funds must only be applied to the payment of medical or hospital benefits to its contributors, and towards meeting reasonable management costs. In the event of a registered organisation seeking cancellation of its registration, it is required to submit proposals for the disbursement of surplus funds. The proposals are examined in the light of the individual circumstances and having regard to the wishes of contributors. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Recent evidence published by the Victorian Cancer Society stated that between 1966 and 1969 cigarette smokers among adult males in the population decreased from 54% to 45% and among adult females from 34% to 28%. 
There are no figures relating to adolescents suitable for comparison. The per capita consumption of tobacco as a whole had fallen from 7.9 lb per adult in 1960 to 7 lb per adult in 1967, but rose again to 7.3 lb per adult in 1968. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has stated that health education is probably the most effective way to attack the smoking problem, and my Department has co-operated in the provision of this education to school children within the Commonwealth internal Territories. 
Other action is under consideration by the Government at the presenttime. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. (b) Yes. 
The Governments of all States except New South Wales have indicated their intention of taking action in respect of 1 (a) for warning labels, and Victoria has passed an amendment to its Health Act to enable the making of labelling provisions by Regulation. 
A sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has been set up, at the request of the Health Ministers' Conference, to consider standard analytical methods for determining the 'tar' and nicotine content of tobacco smoke. 
and (3) In respect of the Commonwealth, the matters are under consideration by the Government at the present time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Medical Research  in  Aborigines (Reference) Sub-committee of the Natonal Health and Medical Research Council considers proposals for medical research projects, involving Aborigines, referred to it by the  Chairman  of Council or the Medical Research Advisory Committee of Council. The Sub-committee makes recommendations to the Medical Research Advisory Com mittee on the research value and medical ethics of the project under consideration, and its effects on the people being studied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The combined outstanding claims provisions of the registered health insurance funds as at 30th June 1969 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) lt is proposed that higher benefits will be payable in respect of a number of services specified in the First Schedule to the National Health Act when they are carried out by  a  specialist in the practice of his speciality to whom  a  patient has been referred by another medical practitioner. In accordance with the practices ordinarily followed within the medical profession, the referring doctor will usually be the patient's family doctor, lt is the Government's objective that this proposal, which has been developed in the interests of patients, will be operated in such  a  way that it docs not have an adverse effect on general practice, or needlessly inflate the cost of the national health service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not made any recommendations relating to the free supply of oxygen to pensioners when required for medical reasons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In (960, the National Health and Medical Research Council recommended restrictions on television, press and radio advertising of cigarettes and tobacco, directed towards the younger age groups. 
A Voluntary Code of Cigarette Advertising, the main aim of which was to 'prevent cigarette advertising being directed towards young people', was introduced by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations on 1st January 1966. 
The text of the Code, which resulted from discussions between the then Minister for Health, the Federation and the cigarette manufacturing industry is as follows: 
Cigarette advertising must not be aimed at any non-smoker but must be intended to effect a change of brand among smokers. 
Principal characters shown smoking cigarettes in any advertisement should not be under 25 years of age. 
No cigarette advertising may be placed on television in children's programmes or immediately before or after such programmes. 
No family scenes of father and/or mother smoking cigarettes in front of children may be shown. 
No advertising for cigarettes may appear containing testimonials from persons who have special appeal to young people. 
No advertising may claim special health properties for, or reduction of any ingredient from smoke of any cigarette unless backed by scientific authority. 
Cigarette advertising may use attractive, healthy looking models, or illustrations or drawings of persons who appear to be attractive and healthy, provided that there is no suggestion that their attractive appearance or good health is due to cigarette smoking. 
Advertisements shall not show well-known past or present athletes or sportsmen smoking cigarettes nor anyone who just participated in physical activity requiring stamina or athletic conditioning beyond that of normal recreation. 
Cigarette advertising must not show or imply habitual or excessive smoking. 
A sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has been established at the request of the Australian Health Ministers' Conference lo consider methods of analysis of cigarette smoke, for 'tar' and nicotine content. 
However, the National Health and Medical Research Council has stated that health education is probably the most effective way to attack the smoking problem. Education is generally the responsibility of State Governments, but the Commonwealth is co-operating in the provision of health education within Commonwealth internal Territories. 
Other action is under consideration by the Government al the present time. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
In some instances the student general nurse does receive less remuneration than unqualified nursing aides of the same age. However, the student general nurse carries different responsibilities to those of the nursing aide, and is in the process of receiving an education which leads to a professional career in nursing. 
War Service Homes: Waiting Period  (Question No.  751)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
When was the waiting period re-introduced in respect of applications for assistance to purchase existing houses under the War Service Homes Act. 
How long is the waiting period. 
Will the War Service Homes Division make any checks of interest rates charged on temporary finance as it did in June 1958, October 1959, June 1960 and October 1962 when waiting periods were formerly imposed (Hansard 19th November 1959, pages 2986; 29th August 1963, page 725, and 23rd September 1965, page 1291). 
The Minister for  Housing  has supplied the following answer to the  honourable member's question: 
On 18th March 1970. 
Six months, which includes the processing period. 
lt is not considered that there are any circumstances at present which suggest a need to carry out checks of interest rates charged on temporary finance. 
The  Minister for Housing  has  supplied  the  following answer to  the  honourable member's question: 
This question which is directly related lo Question No. 527 asked by the Honourable Member on 9th April 1970, involves a question of future Government policy, and as indicated in the reply given on that occasion it is impracticable to provide an answer to a question of this nature. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Victorian Department of Agriculture does operate a stallion registration scheme based on examinations, by government officers. 
Operations under the New South Wales Horse-breeding Act (which was similar to the Victorian Act) were suspended in 1942 owing to wartime shortage of- veterinarians. It was decided in 1950 by the New South Wales Government that there was no further need to operate the provisions of the Act because of the substantial reduction in the use of horses in agriculture. 
I am unaware of any confusion or anomalies brought about by suspension of the New South Wales Horse-breeding Act which, it should be noted, had reference only to hereditary unsoundnesses and not to contagious diseases. I am also unaware of any confusion or anomalies in the field of animal health in Australia. 
It is not practical or reasonable to have uniform animal health regulations throughout Australia owing to different circumstances pertaining from State to Slate. However, harmonisation of disease control and animal health is achieved by means of the Commonwealth and States Veterinary Committee which meets regularly and reports to the Australian Agricultural Council through ils Standing Committee on Agriculture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my letter  to  Dr  Ham of 12th January 1970 I stated that it is difficult to condemn, out of hand, techniques which have been used in many cases over the years with apparent safety. I went on to say that precautions must be taken whatever method of administration is used, and it is important that medical practitioners should be able to keep themselves informed of the dangers associated with any particular technique and the precautions to be adopted when using it. (2) The Public Health Advisory Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council at its meeting on 20th-21st April 1970 will consider the report of the Geelong Coroner concerning the deaths of two persons following vaccination with influenza vaccine in June 1969, and will also consider other available evidence relating to the incidence of complications following vaccination in muss immunisation campaigns, lt is anticipated that the Committee will make recommendations regarding the conduct of immunisation programmes, and injection techniques in general. 
[3.10J-  Mr Speaker,  I think that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has placed on record what is really in the mind of the Australian Labor Party should it ever come into office and introduce a health scheme. A number of matters have been raised in which members have sought elucidation, mainly from this side of the House. At this stage I propose to refer to only one of them because I know it is of great interest and I will address myself to the others at the Committee stage because I wish to use most of my time in closing the debate in addressing myself to the Opposition's amendment. One matter that was raised by honourable members - I recall that it was certainly raised by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  - is the question of recognition of and referral to specialists. The Bill, as honourable members know, provides for such recognition and the administrative machinery for the recognition will be simple. It is already necessary to recognise specialists for the purposes of the present scheme, and this is our starting point. Due to the greater emphasis on specialist benefits and referral, however, a more formalised procedure is necessary and clause 19 of the Bill provides for specialist recognition committees to be established. A medical practitioner who is registered as a specialist or consultant physician under State or Territory law is also entitled to be recognised as such for the purposes of the National Health Act. That is the first point. 
This means that practitioners who are registered as specialists under the present Queensland or South Australian laws, under the present Western Australian workers compensation legislation, or under future State or Territory registration laws, will be recognised as such for the purposes of medical benefits. I might add that at the recent conference of Health Ministers the Ministers of the other 3 States, that is, New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania, which have not registered specialists, indicated that they proposed to introduce registration in the near future. However, recognition under this Act will not by any means depend solely on registration under State or Territory law. In each State and Territory, including those which have specialist registration laws, a specialist recognition advisory committee will be appointed to advise the Director-General of Health on applications by medical practitioners for recognition as specialist and consultant physicians under the National Health Act. In considering every application by a doctor who practises in a State or Territory which does not have specialist registration laws or by a doctor who practises in a State or Territory which has such laws but who has not been registered under those laws the clearly appropriate criteria will be applied, namely, the doctor's qualifications, his experience and standing in the profession and the nature of his practice. These criteria will permit of the recognition of medical practitioners who are fully qualified by training and experience to be so recognised whether they practise as individuals or members of groups, including those who also provide services in other areas of medical practice, as well as the recognition of those who practise their specialities on a full-time basis. Regard will be had to the advice of the advisory committees in these types of cases. 
Honourable members will also note that provision has been made for a practitioner to appeal to an independent specialist recognition appeal committee against a refusal to recognise him as a specialist or consultant physician under the National Health Act. The Bill will therefore provide a sound basis for the payment of medical benefits at the specialist rate where a specialist or consultant physician renders a service in the practise of his recognised speciality. Consideration is also being given to a referral system under which a general practitioner could refer a patient either for an opinion and immediate treatment or to continue treatment over a period for a particular illness. I am confident that a referral system will be developed which will fully safeguard all sections of the medical profession, the Government and the community generally. 
The Bill before the House aims to provide the people of Australia with the most substantially improved medical benefits system in 20 years. What has been the response from the Opposition? The Opposition's colourful clutch of 5 medical practitioners - colourful in various ways - has contributed not a single constructive idea advanced thinkers from the profession, were among the lot of them. Surely, the Parliament has justification for hoping that these wielders of the scalpel would also have incisive minds, that they would be men able to cut quickly to the core of concern in this debate, namely, the welfare of the people of Australia, the welfare of the patients. Instead, the atmosphere of torpor generated by their soporific waffle has made them appear more like specialists in anaesthesia, which I understand the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  is. 
Certainly they receive no inspiration from their mini-minded shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  So familiar is he with the endeavours of the Department he aspires to administer that he could not even put his tongue properly to the name of its permanent head. The best he could do in this debate was to open it with a vituperative attack on me, proceed to make a series of ill informed and utterly irrelevant comparisons between Australia's health scheme and those of other countries and conclude by proposing an inane amendment totally in conflict, with a Bill he says he will not oppose. He has presented this pot-pourri of piffle - if I can call it that - pretentiously garnished with classical allusions, the whole delivered - J am sure all members, at least on this side, and quite a number on his own side agree - with a grotesque display of arrogance. He has revealed himself as a creature of little shadow and less substance. 
But what about the patient patient? Who among the Opposition has pleaded the case of the patients? Nobody. The shadowy shadow Minister for Health who supports the Bill yet indulges in an orgy of selfjustification by paying lip service to the hopeless hypothesis which Labor hopes lo pass off as a health scheme proudly labels himself as a Democratic Socialist. Yet he merely demonstrates that he cares much for polemics but nothing much for people. This Bill is based not on some high flown Democratic Socialist ideology - or whatever the honourable member for Oxley calls his Party's alternative scheme - and not on some hideous hybrid mutation in the minds of those who would hopefully pluck for indiscriminate transplant here, aspects of overseas health schemes which appeal to them; it is based on the facts. Our scheme is bused on the facts of life here in Australia, lt is based on fees now being charged by both general practitioners and specialists. It is based on the need to protect patients against existing disproportionate consequences of illness. Nobody either in or out of this House has come to me with a suggestion which he can demonstrate will give patients a better deal than the one that the Government is offering them now. 
By proposing his amendment that a national health insurance commission financed from graduated contributions would pay for medical and hospital services for all Australians more equitably and economically than the health benefits plan as proposed in this Bill, the honourable member for Oxley is rehashing his leader's confidence trick of the last election. I admit it was a good one - a very good one. A lot of people fell for it. The front men were 2 Melbourne economists, Messrs Deeble and Scotton. They were supposed to give the proposition an air of respectability. The proposition, you will recall  Sir, was  that a specific set of health proposals could be introduced on the basis of a  i%  levy on taxable income plus a matching Commonwealth subsidy. 
In a particularly scurrilous attempt to add substance to his fraud, the Leader of the Opposition, in this same statement, indeed, in the following sentence, implied that an officer of my Department had approved Labor's proposals in sworn evidence before a Senate select committee. What the officer said, and this is particularly clear when it is looked at in context, was not that Labor's proposals were soundly based but that the work - the arithmetical and statistical projections of Deeble and Scotton, insofar as they went, to quote the officers' phrase - was soundly based. He said nothing about their conclusions; nothing about whether their calculations, as far as they went, could be translated into proposals which were workable. 
 I will come to that in  a  minute. But even assuming that the Deeble and Scotton proposals were properly costed and could be introduced on the basis of  a  li% levy on taxable incomes plus Commonwealth subsidy, let us recall what the 
Labor Party did to them. What Labor did was to alter and embellish them so that even if they could have been initially financed on the basis of the originally proposed  H%  levy, they ultimately had but 2 chances of being financed in their amended form - Buckley's and none. Yet here we have the honourable member for Oxley again wheeling up Labor's goon type cardboard replica of Deeble and Scotton's health insurance commission. He is wheeling it up in this amendment to the Bill. 
Let rae remind the House of the sort of surgery the Labor Party did on Deeble and Scotton. Originally they declared that a deterrent was necessary in respect of general practitioner and specialist unreferred services and proposed that a patient should have to pay 80c for a general practitioner surgery consultation, $1.50 for a general practitioner home visit and $2.50 for a specialist unreferred consultation. The Labor Party has done away with this patient payment. It has done away with it in spite of the fact that the Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Commission - Labor is always quoting Canada - was forced to introduce utilisation fees for physicians services from 15th April 1968, as stated in the 1968 annual report of the Commission. The annual report stated: 'As a check to the rapidly increasing costs of tax supported medical services.' The report goes on to state: 
For most insured medical services a beneficiary is liable to pay a utilisation fee direct to the physician or optometrist, where applicable at the rate of $1.50 per office visit or $2.00 in the case of a home, emergency or hospital out-patient visit. 
In other words, the deterrents that Deeble and Scotton recommended but which the Labor Party brushed aside now turn out to be what the Canadians whom it professes to admire in relation to their health scheme felt to be essential to make the scheme work and keep it within bounds. 
The amount to be met by the patient for general practitioner services under the health benefits plan proposed in this Bill are 80c for a surgery consultation and $1.20 for a home visit, where the doctor charges the common fee. By deleting the patient payment proposals in the Deeble and Scotton scheme the Labor Party has made certain that a scheme on the lines proposed would cost  a  great deal more than the cost placed by Deeble and Scotton on their own particular proposals. Deeble and Scotton proposed that there should be a disincentive to the submission of small claims by patients; that as a contribution to the cost of handling them all claims covering expenditure of less than $1.20 would be subject to a deduction of $1. The Labor Party has abandoned this charge. The Labor Party's proposed commission would not be able to process medical benefit claims more economically than do the health insurance funds at the present time, despite the assertions to the contrary. It is well established that mere size of health insurance funds is not synonomous with economic operation. Indeed, there is much evidence - a great deal of evidence contrary to what the Labour Party asserts - that the reverse is true. 
If the doctors do not accept 85% of the common fee for their services the number of claims to be processed would be the same as it is now. I am talking about what the Labor Party wants to replace our proposals with in ils amendment. 1 invite all honourable gentleman, just on the basis of some of the things that have been said in the last few months, to ask themselves whether the medical profession in Australia would accept 85% of the common fee in full payment, because some people have forgotten that this is absolutely integral to the Labour Party's scheme. As doctors' bad debts and accountancy charges do not take up anywhere near 15% of their income I assert that there is no basis for imagining that they would be willing to accept only 85% of the common fee. Deeble and Scotton proposed that there should be a limit on the amount to be levied of $100 for each taxpayer. This has been changed so that the maximum of S 1 00 will apply in the case of a man and wife where both are working. Apart from the administrative difficulty in assessing the amounts that would he paid bv the husband and by the wife there is the consideration of the loss of revenue to the proposed health insurance fund that would result. 
The Labor Party proposes to exempt from contributions married couples or persons claiming at least I dependant if their taxable incomes do not exceed $1,600 or their actual incomes $2,000. A proposal of this kind was not included in the Deeble and Scotton scheme. The 2 figures given of $1,600 taxable income and $2,000 actual income are not necessarily linked. For example, a widow with the actual income of $1,950 may be supporting a child and have other concessional deductions of $42 in which case her taxable income would be $1,700. The Labor Party has not seen fit to make it clear whether she would be eligible for exemption under its proposals. The estimated cost of this proposal given by the Labor Party is $3.5m, which would, of course, not be collected by way of the li% levy on taxable income but would have to be found from general revenue. 
Deeble and Scotton proposed that their scheme would be financed in part by the withdrawal of income tax concessions on net medical and hospital expenses and contributions to voluntary insurance organisations. The Labor Party has not specifically indicated whether net medical expenses would be tax deductible under its scheme. The question of whether net medical and hospital expenses would be tax deductible is extremely important. If doctors do not bill the fund direct the patients will be required to meet 15% of the cost of each service - not $5 on a very large medical bill but 15%. In the case of a major operation the net cost of the operation and associated services could well be $60 compared with $5 under the new health benefits plan. 
The Labor Party has also proposed to replace the present insurance organisation with a national health insurance commission. The role of the voluntary fund will be to provide hospital insurance to cover the cost of intermediate and private ward or private hospital treatment. Even if the funds were to accept this role, which is far from certain, the contribution rates would be proportionately much higher than under the present scheme because management expenses would absorb a greater proportion of contributions. If the hospital fund had not provided insurance against intermediate or private treatment the intermediate or private patient would have to meet the cost of his hospital treatment directly. The expense would be quite considerable, especially in the case of prolonged stays. On the basis that the Labor Party would pay benefits of $10 a day the patient would have to pay an additional $8 a day for private hospital treatment. If he were hospitalised for 60 days the cost would thus be $480. Under the present scheme a contributor may get cover for his family against hospital charges of $18 a day for $1.30 a week. 
Yet another embellishment of the Deeble and Scotton proposals is the proposal of the honourable member for Oxley for financial inducements to persuade doctors to practise in areas not adequately served by doctors. Notwithstanding all these costly significant departures from the specific Deeble and Scotton plan the Labor Party still maintains that its proposals can be financed by a 11% levy on taxable incomes together with a matching Commonwealth payment and a levy on compulsory insurance. That claim is simply untenable and I have no doubt that it would be necessary for the Labor Party to provide at least $138m more than was paid in 1968-69. The figure would be very much higher in 1970-71. All this would have to be found from general revenue. We would probably soon reach the position that is applying in Canada, where the Minister for National Health and Welfare has announced that reductions of 25% in votes for both emergency health services and emergency welfare services will be effected in 1970-71. Other areas involved are the combined general and national health grants, which will be reduced by $4m from the 1969-70 level. This has been the demonstrated consequence in Canada of the sort of thing the Labor Party is asking us to vote on by proposing its amendment. 
Compared with the Labor Party's deceit the Government has been absolutely direct. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech last year promised improvements to the scheme which would cost $16m. At the same time he told the people that for a small increase in fund contributions they would get infinitely greater benefits. Subsequently the Government decided that its promised cover could be extended and said that it was prepared to spend up to $32. 5m. The honourable member for Oxley, once again well under par for the course in sincerity and veracity, has tried to suggest that the cost of the Government's original proposals had doubled. The original proposals were accurately costed, as I explained in my statement to the House, at $16m. That was the cost at election time and it would be the cost now for the same proposals. The proposals additional to those made in the policy speech will, of course, cost additional money. 
There is another matter which needs to be clarified, and that is the Government's attitude to differential rebates. This matter has been mentioned a number of times in the course of the debate. In past months on behalf of the Government I have repeatedly made it clear that this legislation, which is based on fees and procedures now existing in the medical profession and recommended for adoption by the Australian Medical Association, is nonetheless flexible legislation. Different fees are now being charged by general practitioners and specialists for the same medical services. I have said that patients must be covered in both instances. However, I have also said that if the profession can collectively guarantee its members' acceptance of another system which will meet whatever new requirements they may have but which will not disadvantage the patient financially, I will be happy to look at it. That undertaking stands not only in regard to this matter but also to other fears or reservations the profession may have about the new scheme. 
Let me conclude my remarks by once again stressing that the Labor Party's scheme is not the Deeble and Scotton scheme. There is no basis whatever for the claim that it would be more economic and equitable than the plan provided in the Bill. Economic operation is by no means an automatic consequence of giving the conduct of a service to a government monopoly. Decentralisation of administration, which is inherent in the existing plan, produces its own dividends in the form of efficient service and contributor satisfaction. I believe that the Australian people will be rightly sceptical whether the alleged economies promised from a government health insurance fund would ever eventuate. But there is more to this than economy and efficiency. If we transfer the conduct of health insurance to a single government fund we have established one more area where freedom of individual choice is denied - a freedom which all of us would value and the loss of which we would lament if it ever occurred. 
It is true that the honourable member for Oxley was at great pains to assert that it is only within the insurance system that  the Labor Party wants to impose its socialistic philosophy on us. Our right to select our own doctor, according to the honourable member, is to be retained. But much of what other members of the Opposition said in the debate left us in a great deal of doubt as to whether even this basic right would continue to be enjoyed if the Labor Party were entrusted with the management of our health system. The oft repeated praise by honourable members opposite of the United Kingdom scheme and its socialised base leaves the strong impression that socialised medical services would duly follow socialised insurance in the name of alleged economy and equity. The Government rejects absolutely the amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Hayden's amendment) stand pari of the question. 
As the honourable member will possibly be aware the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee arranged, I think towards the end of last year, for a pamphlet or an information paper on this question to go to all medical practitioners. It has also done a great deal of work in examining the literature that is enclosed with these preparations. This is being gradually amended by the companies as recommendations are made for revising them. Whether the information put out by my Department on the advice of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee last year was sufficient to cover these particular circumstances I do not know, but I shall make some inquiries. I completely agree with the honourable member that members of the profession should have information on this important matter readily available to it so that they will be able to make judgments in particular cases. 
 Mr Chairman,  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  asked why the provision he mentioned has not been included in the Bill. I direct his attention to section 15.5 of the report of the Nimmo Committee, which states: 
The fac) that spectacle lenses are prescribed both by ophthalmologists and by optometrists gives rise to special problems under the scheme. It is c'..'imcd by optometrists that unfair discrimination arises from the fact that subject to special conditions medical benefits are payable for consultations with ophthalmologists but not with optometrists. 
In section 15.6 the report says: 
The Commonwealth has sought to remove discrimination by a provision in the National Health Act under which consultations with medical practitioners in consequence of which spectacle lenses are prescribed are not eligible for Commonwealth benefits.  This provision penalises ophthalmologists' patients and it is claimed that devices are employed to circumvent it. While it is an unsatisfactory provision the Committee is unable to suggest any other means of achieving the result sought. 
As I say, the Nimmo Committee had this aspect under review and came up with that conclusion. I have today received a deputation from the Ophthalmological Society, as I have done on many occasions in the past, and it has placed before me new information on this question which I have undertaken to consider. If it seems to change the situation, which has proved a problem to the Government over many years, I have undertaken to take this question to the Government and, if the Government agrees, to sponsor an appropriate amendment next time the National Health Act is amended. There has not been time and there would not be time within the next week or two for this new information to be analysed and properly assessed in the light of these considerations. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment. I do not think I have seen a more extraordinary amendment in the time I have been in this Parliament. I wonder whether the Opposition has fully considered the consequences of such an amendment becoming law in the unlikely event that the Opposition ever became the Government of this country. However, it is not on that basis that the Government raises objection to the amendment. Section 9, which the amendment is designed to amend, has a very wide application. It is not confined to medical and hospital benefits or to the other benefits provided under the National Health Act. The proposed amendment is directly specifically to sub-section (2.) of section 9, which reads: 
The Minister may disseminate information relating to health or the prevention of disease. lt would appear that section 9 (2.) places beyond doubt the authority of the Minister to issue Press statements, make speeches, publish annual reports, issue books about medical and pharmaceutical benefits to doctors, pharmacists or registered organisations and generally to issue publicity material such as pamphlets to explain medical and hospital benefits, pharmaceutical benefits and the operation of the pensioner medical service. The sub-section has a very wide scope. The present medical benefits scheme has been in operation for 17 years and it is obvious that a special effort is needed to inform the public of the new concepts involved in the scheme to which this Bill will give effect. The proposed publicity about the new health benefits plan will not be of a political nature. It will follow the pattern of ordinary departmental publicity directed to ensuring that the general public is fully aware of the health benefits plan and what the individual needs to do in order to participate in the plan. In other words, the publicity will continue the tradition which, without exception, has not been departed from by my Department or, to my knowledge, any other department as far as the proprieties are concerned. 
If the amendment were carried the Minister would probably be prevented from disseminating information of the kind proposed to be disseminated or he may be required to obtain the approval of other political parties before disseminating such information. This would impose a restriction of such severity on the  activities of the Minister as to make it doubtful whether the normal activities of the Department could be carried on. Further, why should a restriction of this kind be proposed only for the National Health Act? If it is suitable for the National Health Act it could be argued that it is suitable for all legislation, because a great deal of legislation carries through it in basic principle the philosophical approach of the party which forms the government. So if the Opposition's proposal is appropriate to this Act it should be written into every other Act. Such a situation would, I suggest, place an impossible restriction on government administration and could not be tolerated. The Government opposes the amendment. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
Clauses 7 to 18 - by leave - taken together. 
Clause 8. 
Section 13 of the Principal Act is amended - (a)...... 
by omitting from sub-section (I.) the definitions of "professional service" and "the Committee" and inserting in their stead the following definitions: - " 'medical service' means a service that is specified in an item in the First Schedule to this Act; professional service' means - 
a medical service that is rendered by, or on behalf of, a medical practitioner; or 
a prescribed medical service that is rendered in an operating theatre of an approved hospital by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner approved by the Director-General for the purposes of this definition; 
Clause 9. 
After section 13 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted - "13a...... 
Clause 14. 
Section 18a of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - "18a. Where a person becomes a contributor on or after the proclaimed date (not being a person who, immediately before he so becomes a contributor, was a contributor within the meaning of Part III. of the National Health Act 1953-1969 and had been such a contributor for a period of two months or more), Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of medical expenses incurred by the person during a period of two months commencing - 
in the case of a person who, immediately before becoming a contributor, was a contributor within the meaning of PartIII. of the National Health Act 1953-1969- on the day on which that person became a contributor within the meaning of that Part; or 
in any other case - on the day on which that person becomes a contributor, unless, under the rules of the registered medical benefits organization concerned, fund benefit is paid by the organization in respect of those medical expenses.". 
Clause 15. 
Section 19 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (2.) the definition of " professional service " and inserting in its stead the following definition: - " ' professional service ' does not include a medical service covered by item 631, 641, 651 or 661 inthe First Schedule to this Act or by any item in Part 7 or Part 8 of that Schedule;". 
Clause 16. 
Section 21 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (1.) and (2.) and inserting in their stead the following sub-sections: - 
Clause 17. 
Section 23 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) all the words after the word "contributor" (second occurring). 
MrHAYDEN (Oxley) [8.0]-  Mr Chairman,  we find ourselves in a position where we must move a group of amendments together.I do so formally because of the guillotine which has been applied by the Government. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

I have already allowed 2 members of the Opposition to speak. I did not rise. I departed from the normal custom in the Committee stage of a Bill. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  decided to move the remaining proposed amendments in this group at once. Some of them were accepted by you,  Mr Chairman,  as proposed amendments but others were not. I think it quite reasonable for me to speak on behalf of the Government and deal with those proposed amendments which were accepted in the same way as the honourable member leading for the Opposition did. In order not to use up the available time 
I will confine myself to the proposed amendments that were accepted by you,  Sir, and  be as brief as possible. 1 shall deal first with proposed amendment No. 9 which was moved by the honourable member for Oxley and accepted by you. lt would have the effect of having the schedule of fees reviewed at least every 2 years. The Government can not accept this proposition and does not believe that it is necessary. I have already stated on behalf of the Government that it is desirable for an arrangement to be negotiated with the Australian Medical Association for a review of the common fees on which the medical benefits are based. The Government has given an undertaking that it will pursue this matter to the point where there is an agreed method of arriving at a review of fees at regular intervals. The Australian Medical Association has put a particular proposal to the Government as to the way in which this should be done. The Government has not yet made a decision on that proposal but hopes to do so shortly. After it has made its decision there will be, inevitably, quite a bit of negotiation with the Australian Medical Association. I have no doubt at all that there will be a satisfactory method of updating common fees agreed upon but we have not yet reached that point. Nor do I believe, as a matter of general principle, that it is appropriate that either that or the sort of provision moved by the Opposition should be incorporated in this legislation. Therefore the Government opposes this amendment. 

 Sir, the next proposed amendments accepted by you were Nos 7 and 8. Both proposed amendments relate to clause 16. You accepted proposed amendment No. 7 in whole and proposed amendment No. 8 in part. These proposals refer to the power given for the Director-General to make a provisional payment of Commonwealth benefit in those cases where it is possible but not certain that there will be compensation paid in third party or workers' compensation cases and where the amount of compensation paid would reduce the Commonwealth medical benefit. If the compensation received is high enough to reduce the amount of Commonwealth benefit that should be paid below the amount actually paid provisionally, the difference is repayable by the contributor. The effect of the proposed amendment would be to force the payment of Commonwealth benefit in all possible compensation cases where the patient had not established entitlement. The present Act allows the Director-General to investigate and to make an assessment of the situation. It permits him to use his judgment as to whether payment of compensation is probable and as to tha amount that will be paid. This achieves much greater accuracy in the amount of benefit paid. If the Commonwealth benefit were paid in all cases, as proposed, there would be difficulty in recovering the amount over paid to the contributor, not to mention the inconvenience caused to the contributor. 
Proposed amendment No. 8 refers to the power of the Minister to determine how much of a payment made in settlement of a claim under workers' compensation or third party is attributable to medical expenses. The amendment proposes an appeal to the court that either heard the case or would have heard the case if it had not been settled out of court. The practice of the courts varies in that in some cases the amount attributable to medical expenses is specified whereas in others a lump sum is awarded. In some cases there is a settlement out of court. The effect of this proposed amendment would be to force the courts indirectly to make an assessment of medical expenses in each case heard and, if the contributor desired it. also in those cases settled out of court. The proposed amendment would seem to serve little useful purpose as the court could use only the same criteria as the Minister would use in making his determination. For that reason I oppose it. 
Having replied to the amendments which have been accepted, I would like to answer the question raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  with respect to the proposal to provide benefits in the Government's plan for certain items which related to oral surgery. It is not intended to prescribe services of a kind which will normally be given in a dental practitioner's surgery. The remarks of the honourable member for Prospect w?re directed at the special situation which arises when a patient is given a procedure of a kind sometimes performed by a doctor and in other circumstances performed by an oral surgeon. The emphasis in this matter is on the question of what services are prescribed. We have not yet reached the point of actually prescribing these services. They are certainly not prescribed in the schedule. We have received from the Australian Dental Association only in the last few days details of the services which it suggests are appropriate within the context of the Government's intention. These suggestions went no further than to remove an anomaly in the existing Act in circumstances where services could bc done equally well by an oral surgeon and a medical practitioner. At present there is a working party of my Department and the Australian Dental Association examining this situation in detail. 
There are a number of other matters', including that raised by the honourable member for Prospect in relation to the persons who will be recognised under the Act for these purposes, which have to be worked out by negotiation. Until that is done it seems appropriate for the Government to restrict this to the recommendation contained in the Nimmo Committee report, that it should be restricted to services performed in the operating theatre of an approved hospital. After all this is worked out that would appear to the Government to be the appropriate time to consider whether this restrictive provision recommended by the Nimmo Committee is unduly restrictive. 
In relation to the point made by the honourable member for Prospect about unmarried mothers, it is the intention of the Government, as I indicated in a statement that I made originally on this matter, to introduce as a condition of registration of the funds uniform conditions of registration, which will cover the point that he made, for all funds in Australia. I think that will answer the point that the honourable member made. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

 A number of points have been raised by the honourable members for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  They asked why we do not include a representative of the Stale departments of Health. Contrary to what they would say, the reason is that it would appear to me to be inappropriate to include such representatives when we are only establishing a specialist register purely for the purposes of the National Health Act. This is all it is, a specialist register for the limited purposes of the National Health Act. State departments of Health play their parts in the committees set up in the States to perform a similar purpose where there is a State register of specialists. The honorable gentlemen will notice from the Bill that all medical practitioners placed on the State specialist register are automatically recognised for the purposes of the National Health Act, the health benefits plan, as specialists. 
On the other point that was raised, there are currently 2 States - South Australia and Queensland - which have registers of specialists. Western Australia has a specialist register for the purpose of the Workers compensation Act. The 3 other State Ministers for Health have indicated to me that they propose introducing State registers in the near future. 1 would expect that in the State committees particularly at least some of the medical practitioners nominated under the procedures which we have laid down will be people who have been associated with the State committees doing the same job and who are responsible for standards. The honorable member also raised the question of recognition of oral surgeons. I make the point immediately that there was no intention and it is not proposed that these committees should deal with the matter of recognition of oral surgeons under the Act. In relation to specialist dentists the discussions which are being arranged with the dental profession are expected to lead to the adoption of suitable arrangements for agreements between the Government and the dental profession on the recognition of dental practitioners for the purpose of oral surgeon benefits. In the light of these discussions appropriate amendments will be proposed at a later date if it is considered that the arrangements being worked out ought to be formalised by legislative provisions. 
You cannot have it both ways. A little while ago the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were complaining that they had not had an opportunity to raise matters that they wished to raise with me. Tn this case some Opposition members raised matters about which I believe they were sincerely interested in getting an answer and this is what I am trying to provide. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  as I understand it, raised 2 points in respect of psychiatrists. The first was: Who is going to be responsible for recognising people who will be registered as psychiatrists under the Act? Of course, they will be registered in the broad group of physicians but the provision which enables a consultant in the specialist group involved to be added to the committee, if appropriate, would apply to that. The answer to his question is that undoubtedly in this case - in this case perhaps above all for reasons which he would well know - it would seem to be very important to have a clearly recognised member of that specialist group added to the committee in order to determine this question. 
The second and, I think, unrelated point that he raised was the question of determination of common fees for psychiatric services. This was done in exactly the same way as common fees were determined for all other items under the Schedule and based on figures provided to the Government as a result of information obtained from medical benefit funds, from their records and from doctors' bills, and examined by the AMA. All the other groups - the 15 to 17 sub-specialists - are contained in the physician group. In this respect psychiatrists are no different from, for instance, neurologists who have the same sort of arrangements. The point I make is that we produced the best results in relation to common fees that were possible in respect of the available information. Undoubtedly, as I have said many times, when new or additional information becomes available this will be considered by an anomalies committee and we hope that the House will approve the taking of power under the Act to make by way of regulation changes in the Schedule. When factual information about fees charged by doctors becomes available and is considered by an anomalies committee we will be only too glad to make appropriate amendments to the Schedule. 
 I was under the impression that I had moved all of the amendments to clause 19 standing in my name. If I did not, I now move the remainder: 
In proposed section 29b. omit sub-section (1.), insert the following sub-sections: - "'(1.) There shall he a Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee, which shall consist of five medical practitioners appointed by the Minister in accordance with the next succeeding section. "'(1a.) The exercise or performance of the powers or functions of the Committee is not affected by reason only of there being a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Committee.", 
After section 29b insert the following section: - " ' 29ba.  -  (1.) Before making appointments to a Committee, the Minister shall request each of the following bodies to nominate a panel of not less than three medical practitioners for consideration for appointment to the Committee: - 
the Australian Medical Association; 
the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons; 
the Royal Australasian College of Physicians; 
the Australian Council of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists; and 
the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. " ' (2.) When, in accordance with a request under the last preceding sub-section, each of the bodies referred to in that sub-section has nominated a panel of medical practitioners for consideration for appointment to a Committee, the Minister shall appoint to the Committee one medical practitioner from each of the panels. " ' (3.) Where a member of a Committee dies or resigns or the appointment of a member of  a  Committee is terminated, the Minister shall request the body by whom the member was nominated to nominate a panel of not less than three medical practitioners for consideration for appointment to fill the place of the member, and the Minister shall appoint one of those medical practitioners to fill that place. " ' (4.) In this section, " Committee " means a Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee or the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee.". 
In proposed section 29c, omit sub-section (2.), insert the following sub-section: - " ' (2.) Before considering a question referred to it under the last preceding sub-section, a Committee may, with the Minister's approval, engage as a consultant a medical practitioner who has qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession in the specialty to which the question before the Committee relates.". 
  In proposed section 29d, omit sub-section (2.), insert the following sub-section: - " ' (2.) Before considering an appeal, the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee may, with the Minister's approval, engage as a consultant a medical practitioner who has qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession in the specialty to whichthe appeal relates.". 
Add at the end thereof the following section: - " ' 29E. A medical practitioner engaged as a consultant under either of the last two preceding sections shall be paid such professional fee in respect of his services as the Minister determines.'.". 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has taken a rather tenuous peg on which to hang his question. The amendment to which he referred has nothing to do with the common fee. 
I would like first of all to clarify the meaning of the amendment. The Commonwealth has a range of payments prescribed for statutory committees which would apply to the members of the specialist committee. Unless something was written into the Act this would not apply to a consultant. It is a pretty common practice when we engage various people in the medical profession to do things on an ad hoc basis to determine a professional fee for that purpose. This has nothing to do with the common fee. 
If you will permit me,  Mr Chairman,  I would like to answer the specific question asked by the honourable member. I emphasise - andI think it is important to do so - that it had nothing to do with the peg on which the honourable member hung the question. All that I or my Director-General have done is make a statement of fact. It will be clear to anybody who has examined the Bill that there is no legal obligation on a medical practitioner to charge a certain fee. When doctors have asked me whether they would be under a legal obligation to charge the common fee I have answered that there is no legal obligation. I was not present when my DirectorGeneral made the statement to which the honourable member referred, but it is a fact that medical practitioners are not under a legal obligation to charge the common fee. However, I have also said on many occasions that unless a substantial proportion of the medical profession does in fact charge the common fee our health benefits plan will not achieve the degree of patient satisfaction which is the Government's objective. I have said also that I can see no reason why the great majority of the medical profession should not charge the common fee for the very reason that the definition of what the common fee is, is precisely what the majority of doctors are charging at the present moment. So 1 would expect that at least until the time when we normally would expect the regular review of their fees, of which I have spoken already tonight, there is no reason why the medical profession should not go on charging the fees which it has been commonly charging until now. 
I have answered that question. No legal obligation exists in this Bill to require a medical practitioner to charge a particular fee. 
I regretfully say once again that the Government must reject this amendment, largely because I believe it to be meaningless in relation to the practicality of the way these things happen. J was not quite clear from what the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  had to say precisely what he was directing the amendment to. On the one hand he said that the review should take place to benefit people who received medical services under the pensioner medical service and on the other hand he spoke as though it were necessary to benefit the medical profession which worked under the pensioner medical service. The first point, that is, the necessity to have a review every 2 years in order to ensure that the pensioner medical service is functioning properly in respect of the needs of pensioners, I would regard as being unduly restrictive. Indeed, if I had confined myself in the conduct of my administration of this portfolio to having a look at the pensioner medical service from this point of view only every 2 years I would believe that I had failed in my responsibility. 
I still believe that once we provide for a period of 2 years this becomes an excuse for looking at it only every 2 years. The practice has been to keep the provisions of the pensioner medical service under continuous review. I take as a case in point the matter that he raised as an illustration. We have had almost continuous discussions with the medical profession over the last year or 18 months on the possibility of extending the pensioner medical service to domiciliary specialist services. The definition of the way in which this could be provided has not reached the point where it would be possible for me to take it to the Government. All I say is that this is a continuous process and therefore in respect of that particular aspect I just do not believe the amendment to be necessary and it could prove to be restrictive. Just to put the record straight, I might add that pensioners are not denied the services of specialists under the pensioner medical service because of arrangements made by the State governments in relation to both inpatient and outpatient services at public hospitals. 
Yes. All State governments in Australia operate under this arrangement and therefore, as I say, pensioners are not denied under the pensioner medical service the services of specialists. As to whether this is necessary in respect of pensioner medical service fees, again I deny the necessity. In fact since 1965, as a result of an agreement between the Government and the Australian Medical Association, we have undertaken a biennial review of fees paid under the pensioner medical service. Since 1965 fees under the pensioner medical service have been moved and increased every 2 years in accordance with this agreement on the basis of looking at economic indicators. I know that there is dissatisfaction in the medical profession about the level of pensioner medical service fees, but I make the point that that is not due to this cause; it is not due to the fact that there has not been continuous review. Since 1965 there have been 3 reviews under the 2-year arrangement and on each occasion pensioner medical service fees have been increased. On each occasion they have been increased by considerably more than the increase in the consumer price index in the period. 
Not only since 1965 but since the inception of the pensioner medical service I have taken out some figures which may be of interest to the Committee. Since the inception of the service pensioner medical service surgery consultation fees have increased by 208% and fees for domiciliary visits have increased by 213% as opposed to an increase of 88% in the consumer price index and as compared with an increase of 200% in average weekly earnings over the period of the scheme. So I claim, on behalf of the Government, that not only would the amendment be unduly restrictive but that it is unnecessary. In addition I again make the point that I made earlier, that it is proposed to negotiate with the Australian Medical Association an updating arrangement - if I can use that term - in respect of the movement of common fees on which our medical benefits schedules should be based. It seems to me to be entirely appropriate that the same procedures that are worked out in respect of the updating of common fees in the medical benefits schedules should be applied to the updating, where updating is appropriate, of pensioner medical service fees. For these reasons the Government rejects the amendment. 
Because I have suffered from this process in the past, I desire to pick up the point made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and settle it once and for all. On at least 2 or 3 occasions in the period 1 have been a Minister I have suffered from this Goebbel's technique. Through continuous repetition, something which I have not said is claimed to have been said by me and has thus become part of the folk lore. I describe this as the Goebbels's technique. I have suffered from this and I intend to make the matter absolutely clear because the honourable member for Oxley is indulging in precisely this technique. He began it some weeks ago in a telegram to mc. The tactics he is adopting stick out as plain as a pikestaff. He is asserting that I established tonight that the Government, in this Bill, is introducing something different from the promises made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  during the election campaign, in respect of the benefits which the public would receive. 

 Mr Chairman, I deny that assertion. I have never said that and the Prime Minister did not say it in his policy speech. The policy speech was carefully drafted, as was my statement to this House in March; as was my second reading speech on this Bill; and as was every public statement that I made on behalf of the Government or that anybody else made on behalf of the Government. We have said that the benefits which would be made available in this Bill would relate to the fees most commonly charged by doctors. 
On every occasion- 
Before you start this lie going- 
I am not talking about headlines. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The expression is unparliamentary. 
Di  FORBES - 1 will withdraw that remark if it is offensive to the honourable member and still more because it is unpailiamentary Every statement made officially on behalf of the Government has emphasised that the benefits - the promises abou! S5.80 and $1.20 for a domiciliary visit and so on - are clearly related to doctors who charge the common fee. Let nobody suggest otherwise, because it would not be possible to provide otherwise. The only other thing I want to say on this is that when the Opposition comes clean, when it comes out into the open and stands up and says thai it is going to provide that ali doctors in Australia charge a common fee and tells us how it is going to do this, thou we will take it seriously in relation to any charges it makes about us in connection with this Bill. 
I would like to say immediately that the impression that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  had about what is done in respect of the reduction of payments is not correct. The committee has to find that particular medical services should not have been claimed for, not that they should not have been performed. The amount that the doctor has to refund is directly related to the views of the committee about the degree of overvisiting. In other words, if the committee felt that a doctor should have seen a patient only 30 times and the doctor saw that patient 50 times, the amount to be refunded would be the amount of the vouchers he submitted for 20 visits, that is, the difference between 50 and 30. 
Not that I am aware of, although there was a court finding a number of years ago - I forget the names of the doctors involved in the case - which made it necessary for the committees to present their findings in a different way. What the honourable gentleman was referring to may have related to that. But let me say that there are few matters for which I have been responsible as Minister for Health which have troubled me and my Department more than this question. 1 have had many discussions with the medical profession and many discussions with my colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  in an endeavour to find some appropriate form of appeal to a court in these cases. We have not yet succeeded in doing so. One of the reasons is thai the original inquiry set up is so beneficial lo the doctor. 
I would like to tell the Committee how these committees are composed. They are composed of 5 medical practitioners. Four of them arc nominated by the Australian Medical Association in the State concerned and one of them, who is also a doctor, is nominated by the Commonwealth Minister for Health. The 4 nominated by the AMA are always people who have had experience of the pensioner medical services themselves. The hearings are traditionally conducted on an informal doctor to doctor basis, the committee endeavouring to ascertain the reasons for the doctor's high attendance rate and to determine whether the attendances were necessary, having regard to the circumstances of the case. Normally a doctor does not have legal representation, but if he wants lo have it he can, and in that case an officer of the AttorneyGeneral's Department assists the committee. 
The reasons for the difficulties in providing an avenue of appeal - and 1 would like to place this on the record - is that the committee system itself, as 1 have explained, provides for the examination of the conduct of a medical practitioner by his peers, and it is considered that this is the system most favoured by the profession generally. The provision of a right of appeal to a court would involve, as I said, both legal and practical difficulties. If I could take first the legal aspects, it must be kept in mind that a judge could not make any judgment on the correctness of the committee's recommendation, or on the decision of the Minister to disallow or reduce claims in accordance with the report of the committee, without calling expert witnesses to give evidence as to the necessity or otherwise of the visits made to the pensioner patients. There is the undesirable feature that particular cases would be examined and pensioners could and probably would be called on to give evidence. In both cases there could be a serious intrusion into the privacy of the doctor-patient relationship. 
Yes, but this is a much higher degree of seriousness and something which in this case it is probably appropriate to accept. As I say, if the decision of the Minister is based on the committee's assessment of the level of services necessary for the medical needs of the patient, a court would not decide an appeal without calling expert witnesses to inform it. The most important practical considerations, as compared with legal ones, involved in providing an appeal to a court are: Firstly, if an appeal to a court were provided it would be difficult to get suitable medical practitioners to serve on the committee. A medical practitioner would be unwilling to serve if he knew that the judgment of the committee could be examined and questioned in open court. This is partly the answer to the honourable member's interjection. In very few cases is the agreement terminated. Since the pensioner medical service was introduced there have been 12 cases, which represents 1 % of the total. The effect of that proportion of cases going to court will probably not discourage medical practitioners from serving on the committee, but if this became the rule rather than the exception I am quite certain that it would discourage them. 
It may be equally difficult lo obtain expert witnesses to testify in open court against fellow practitioners who were willing to serve on a committee. In any case the criterion laid down in the proposed amendment, that the court should consider whether the medical practitioner has been guilty of failure to discharge conscientiously his obligations under the agreement entered into with the Director-General, is inappropriate and inadequate. I am so advised bv the Government's legal advisers. The committee may recommend disallowance of a claim on the basis that a doctor was being over-conscientious in providing more services than were necessary for the medical needs of the patient. The Slate branches of the AMA did nol unanimously support the concept of appeals against decisions based on the committee's recommendations. The only State branch of the AMA which has had very, much to say about this matter at all is the New South Wales branch. It is understandable that the honourable member for Prospect is interested in this as he comes from New South Wales. 
The debate on this Bill, concerned as it is with the major changes to the medical benefits arrangements, does not seem to me to be the appropriate time to consider the complex question of appeals against decisions made in relation to the pensioner medical service. Nevertheless, it could well be possible to develop a system of appeals to an administrative tribunal or to the proposed Commonwealth Superior Court. A committee known as the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee has been established with terms of reference which include consideration of the jurisdiction to be given to the proposed Superior Court to review administrative decisions. The report of this committee may well express views concerning administrative appeals other than to a court. In the Government's view it would therefore be advisable to await the report of the committee. The Government must reject the amendment, but it sympathises with the objective sought and will certainly, after it receives the report of the Administrative Review Committee, give further consideration to the question as to whether it is practicable to find a form of appeal to a court or, alternatively, to an administrative tribunal in this case. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 20 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 20a. 
In answer to the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  that matter has been interpreted administratively to apply to treatment under the immediate supervision of a medical practitioner. In fact, administratively it has been interpreted to include, for instance, the services of a nurse under the direction of a medical practitioner where a nurse gives an injection or something like that. It has not been interpreted administratively to apply to the case that he represented because it is the policy of the Government that physiotherapy does not come under that part of the scheme for which benefits are paid. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised 2 points regarding contributor interest in the funds. All the funds have different rules on this matter and it is something to which my Department always pays attention in examining the rules of the funds. We would find it difficult lo register an organisation if there were no contributor representation, but the Department has not laid down rigid and precise rules in respect of this. I think that we can go too far in relation to these matters, lt should be remembered that many of these funds were in existence long before we brought this scheme into being and they had an entity of their own. I think there is a good case, where it can be demonstrated that the fund is performing its functions satisfactorily so far as the distribution of Commonwealth money is concerned and acting in the interests of contributors, to leave the funds as far as possible to manage their own internal affairs. All the funds have rules. 
The next point raised by the honourable member was what happened to the contributors' funds in the event of deregistration The answer is that it depends on the circumstances of the deregistration. This Bill makes provision for certain funds which have branches interstate to register separately in each State, and there are provisions for the State branches of funds which are on separate registration to be deregistered, and no doubt that is the particular circumstance about which the honourable member is thinking. In all these cases and in the event of deregistration they would be deregistered because they were not operating economically and efficiently within that State. They would all have been heavily subsidised by the contributors of the parent organisation of the State and in the event of that fund being deregistered any funds available in it would be paid back to the parent organisation in the State. But with regard to deregistration in general or dissolution, all of the funds have arrangements which ensure that the interests of contributors are protected and that any surplus funds go to the people who have provided such surplus. This is a condition of registration. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 23a. 
 Section 69 provides the power for the making of regulations for the registration of organisations. The use of this power is at present discretionary. To substitute the word 'shall' for the word may' as proposed in the amendment would make it obligatory for the regulations to be made. Such a course would tighten this aspect of the Act with regard to organisations but to little practical effect, having regard to my Department's experience of the administration of the health scheme over the years. There is no secret about the details which the application forms require from organisations. I would be happy to supply copies of the forms to any honourable member requiring them. Because the amendment would introduce unnecessary rigidity into the scheme the Government cannot accept it. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 24 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
It has been made perfectly clear by the Government, commencing with the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister for the last election, that its new health benefits plan and the benefits proposed under it are related to the common fee principle - that is, the fees most commonly charged by doctors. Not only did the Prime Minister make that point; I made it, clearly, in my statement to the House on 4th March and in my second reading speech on the National Health Bill. The statement was specifically made that medical benefits would be established at a level which provided for a high level of contributor return and contributor satisfaction where the doctor charged the most common fee. I think it is perfectly clear that right from the beginning the Government has made this known, however it might have been interpreted elsewhere. 
In answer to the second part of the honourable member's question, it is a fact that payment of benefits by the Government or the benefit organisations to provide for coverage against any amount that might be charged by individual doctors would be financially ruinous. This would be a quite impossible basis for a responsible government to adopt for a benefits system. 1 think it is also worthy of note that in my statement to the House on 4th March on this matter I made it perfectly clear that the success of our health benefits plan will very much depend on the cooperation of the medical profession in adhering to the list of most common fees. I have also said that I see no reason why this should not be done, because the most common fees on which the health benefits plan is based are, after all, the fees which doctors are most commonly charging at the present time. There is no reason why they should not continue to do so. In relation to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I point out that patients will indeed continue to have complete freedom in choosing their own doctor. This has always been and always will be a keystone in the Government's policy and its approach to health. 
I have not specifically counted the number of questions, many of them of a highly detailed nature involving many hundreds of hours of work on the part of senior departmental officers, that the Leader of the Opposition has placed on the notice paper in respect of my Department. My Department just does not have the resources in relation to the priorities it has to answer his questions in the time scale which he evidently expects. If he could indicate to me those of the hundreds of questions he asks to which he attaches priority, I am prepared on that basis to ask my officers to give priority to those, but I cannot countenance a situation in which all of the senior officers of my Department are to be taken off everything affecting the health of this country to answer questions many of which are placed on the notice paper clearly for political purposes. 
I do not think that I need to add to what I said in answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Henty. The common fees which are in the Schedule attached to the Bill and on which our health benefits plan is based are the fees most commonly charged by doctors for the particular procedures listed in the schedule, whether they are procedures undertaken by specialists or general practitioners. The Australian Medical Association has provided the Government with the information that these are the most common fees charged by doctors, and the Government has accepted that position. As I said earlier I see no reason why, in circumstances where these are the fees most commonly charged and have been defined as common fees, doctors should not continue to charge those fees until such time as there is a revision of fees. One expects that fees will be revised at intervals and that some method of up-dating them will be worked out by the Government and the Australian Medical Association. 
The first part of this amendment, as explained, relates to the approval or refusal of an application by an organisation for registration. The amendment proposes that the Minister shall give his decision on the application by regulation. It was not quite clear to me what is sought to be achieved by this proposal. Provision is made in clause 53 of the Bill for an appeal to a State supreme court against any decision of the Minister not to grant registration. In any case the registration - of organisations is part of the normal administrative process and, in the view of the Government, in this case legislative processes are not appropriate. The processes associated with the amendment of regulations could delay unnecessarily the approval of an organisation which applied for registration. 
The proposed amendment to sub-section (4.) of section 73 of the principal Act would make the register of organisations, which is presently open only to persons authorised in writing by the Minister, open for public inspection. The effect of the proposed amendment would be to make public knowledge the terms and conditions under which the registration was granted to an organisation. This would serve no useful purpose as there is a requirement in the Act that particulars of registered organisations will be gazetted each year in accordance with section 81. Proposed new section 76a, which is contained, in clause 27 of the Bill, provides for the tabling of an annual report setting out details of the financial operations of each individual fund. 
The same comments apply to those parts of the amendment which relate to the registration of organisations. It is, in the view of the Government, cumbersome and pointless to require the use of the legislative process to implement a purely administrative decision to revoke or vary any or all of 
The terms and conditions under which regis tration is granted to an organisation. On these grounds, the Government opposes the amendment. 
This amendment is directed to the new section 76A contained in clause 27. The section provides for the Minister to table each year before each House of Parliament a report of the Director-General on the operations of registered organisations. The new sub-section (2.) lists 7 heads of information that are to be included in the report of the Director-General. The list is not exhaustive and paragraph (h) enables the Minister to require additional information to be included. So it is contemplated that if it appears desirable in the light of experience the Minister will require additional information. In considering this amendment - and I think it is important to put the matter in perspective - it is relevant to keep in mind the various types of organisations that are registered under the National Health Act. Numerically the main group of organisations are those registered under State law as friendly societies. A second important group includes the larger organisations registered under State law as guaranee companies. Other State law exists, such as legislation applicable to co-operative societies, charities and benefit associations, which applies to organisations which are not friendly societies or guarantee companies. &lt; 
It follows that the majority of organisations and certainly all the larger ones, are to a greater or lesser extent subjected to dual control; that is, by both the Commonwealth under the National Health Act and a particular State or States under appropriate State legislation. I feel that the legal provisions relating to all of those organisations are adequate for their general control and the protection of contributors. At the same time it is realised that the Commonwealth's interest is a vital one and it is for this reason that the Bill provides additional measures directed to organisations' activities. From what I have said it is also apparent that the amendment would probably not have application to all organisations but only to the larger funds which are guarantee companies under State law. For instance, the information sought in the amendment would not appear to be relevant in respect of friendly societies whose financial transactions, reserve investments, etc., are closely supervised under the powers conferred by State friendly societies Acts. 
Let me finish. At this point of time the Government would prefer not to commit itself to the additional information that is to be included in the report to be tabled in Parliament. Some of the information sought in the proposed amendment could be relevant to an examination of an individual organisation's affairs but until the Government has had an opportunity to consider the overall effects of including such information in the report as is sought by the amendment, I would prefer to have the Bill not made more specific at this stage. On those grounds, although not rejecting the objective sought by the amendment, the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
Mir DALY (Grayndler) [3.1]- lt would be wrong of me to speak to this amendment without joining the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and other members of the Opposition in expressing our complete dissatisfaction with the time allotted for the discussion of this legislation. We have less than 80 minutes in which to discuss clauses 22 to 41. which deal with medical funds and their ramifications. [Quorum formed.] lt is to be regretted that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  who drew attention to the state of the Committee, did not point out that although the Government has seen fit to declare this measure an urgent one and to apply a time limit on its discussion, very few members of the Liberal Party have been present in the chamber today. I express my contempt for the Government's attitude in limiting to 80 minutes discussion on this important aspect of the legislation. 1 rise mainly to expose the methods adopted by the Government in dealing with the medical benefits funds. The Government is party to the covering up of things that should be brought to the light of day. The vague explanation given by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  for the Government's refusal to accept the amendment is in keeping with the Bill generally, which is quite vague. The purpose of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingston is to afford some protection to the public against the ramifications and activities of the health benefits organisations. We on this side of the chamber want to do away with the secrecy and maladministration associated with some of these organisations. Far from supporting us, the Minister apparently endorses what the funds are doing. For example, nobody knows how directors are elected to the funds. The Minister has told us that he will not divulge the kind of additional information that he will require from the funds when they table their reports but the fact is that he will not ask for additional information. 
Our amendment seeks to make it mandatory that certain information be supplied. Why should people not know the. names of shareholders in the funds and the extent of their shareholdings? Why should people not know how reserves have been spent or invested? Why should they not have details of the direct or indirect interest of fund directors in organisations in which fund reserves have been invested? Why should people not have other information which the Parliament may from time to time require? Why should people not know why Huxley, who is serving 20 years for embezzling S5.5m, was a director of the Hospital Contribution Fund of New South Wales? Will the Minister tell us whether he condones the appointment of a man like Huxley to the HCF by  Mr Turner,  Director of the HCF, simply, I understand, because Huxley nominated  Mr Turner  for membership of the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales? Why should all this information not be written into the legislation for all to see? 
Looking at the list of directors of the Hospital Contribution Fund, I find that some are known to me and a number are reputable people, but some have evidently been selected for no other reason than that they are friends of  Mr Turner  and have been able to nominate him for membership of some organisations. The list of directors is studded with the names of dozens of doctors. Funds such as these are operated to protect the doctors from bad debts rather than to protect the public against high doctors' fees. T invite the Minister to study the lists of directors of these funds, which include the names of people such as Huxley. I invite him to study the names of the numerous doctors on those lists and to tell the Parliament why we are not entitled to know how these people are elected. People who, over a period of time, contribute millions of dollars, have no say in the election of directors. They do not know who is eligible for election or why people are elected. Nobody knows how much these directors are paid. 
A couple of years ago we had the situation of the Hospital Contribution Fund paying for large advertisements in newspapers to argue its case in opposition to the action proposed at that time by the New South Wales Minister for Health. Those advertisements were paid for by contributors' funds at a time when contribution rates were being increased. I would not like to see contributions' funds used to attack the Minister in this place simply because he was not doing something with which the funds agreed. By refusing to write into the legislation the proposal which the honourable member for Kingston has put forward the Minister is leaving himself open to the type of treatment that has been meted out by the funds to other Ministers for Health. 
Why should. the public not know why contributors' funds have been spent on the purchase of private aircraft for the use of fund directors? Why should we not know what expenses are paid to directors and others who attend' conferences in Australia and other countries? Why should funds not be required to provide this information to the Parliament? When all is said and done, we are not dealing with chicken feed. The latest figures show that the funds have reserves of about $78m. Contributors' funds run into millions of dollars and they should be subject to the fullest measure of parliamentary supervision so that we may be sure that members of the public are not being exploited. 
The Government believes in conscription.  1*  conscripts men to fight; it conscripts people into the medical benefits funds. A person must contribute to a fund before he may obtain the Commonwealth benefit. Notwithstanding this, the Government seeks to deny contributors the knowledge they desire about those who run the funds. The health scheme is clouded in mystery. It is in a shambles. The Minister would have adopted a much fairer attitude if he had accepted the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingston, which seeks not only the provision of information already required to be provided by the funds but also additional information. I do not think the public will be satisfied with the present set-up. These funds have had too much of a go with the public's money and the public has been getting too little from the funds. I subscribe to the Opposition's view that the whole system of funds should be examined with a view to creating one great national fund. If this were done the people would know where their money was going, administrative costs would be kept to a minimum and the activities of the directors and others associated with the fund would be clear for all to see. 
It is true that in a later clause of the Bill there is provision for changes in the rules of registered organisations. Why does the Government not legislate so that at least some officers of the funds are elected by the vote of contributors? No other organisation in the country would tolerate this kind of treatment of its members, yet here, where millions of dollars of contributors' money are involved, all you do is register the rules of the organisation. In that way apparently you satisfy all and sundry. Why get half the information from them? Why not seek what we should have? Why not investigate the full ramifications in this Parliament instead of outside? This is not possible unless the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingston is incorporated in the legislation. I will vote in this Parliament to protect people from the like of Huxley being appointed to hospital benefit funds at the whim of directors. We should subscribe to a pol icy of elective control of these organisations by contributor representatives and we should have all available information from them in the Parliament. I support the amendment. The Minister might well accept it instead of giving the shallow excuse that he had for not accepting it. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  out of his own mouth gave a very good reason why it is undesirable for Ministers to give reasons. The honourable member picked upon and used a case where, I presume, a predecessor of mine who had perhaps not been told the reasons by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, in a spirit of helpfulness ventured a reason for a decision. That can lead to the sort of interpretations put by the honourable gentleman. This is a very difficult field, as the honourable member knows. Quite often there are as many opinions as there are medical practitioners or people who believe they know about it. That is not the main reason why the Government rejects the amendment. In view of the functions and responsibilities of the Advisory Committee it is essential that the members appointed by the Minister have appropriate academic qualifications, wide experience, and be of high standing in their profession. 
The honourable member for Capricornia said that the clinical knowledge of the members of the Advisory Committee was suspect. I am not in a position to tell him who the members are but I can say to him that at least  3  of the most eminent consultant physicians in Australia are on the Committee. These are the people whose clinical knowledge the honourable member says is suspect. The present members so appointed are men cf great distinction and reputation in their respective fields. They serve on the Committee at considerable inconvenience and financial sacrifice. The recommendations of the Committee can involve very serious financial and other implications to persons and companies. If the members* names were published it could be expected that they would be subjected to all the pressures that could be brought to bear by interested parties, including attacks generated in the mass media by professionals in the public relations field. 
The honourable gentleman said that all medical practitioners are subjected to the attentions of the drug companies and detailers. That is so. But that would bc nothing compared to the attention which would be directed to the people on the Advisory Committee who the drug companies know only too well are the people who really make the decisions which affect their bread and butter in a  big way. The amendment could result in a situation in which men in the medical, pharmacological and pharmaceutical fields with the necessary attainments and professional standing would not be willing to serve on the Committee. For that reason the Government does not propose to accept the amendment. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  asked a number of questions which I will attempt to answer. First of all, he referred to the relationship between the determination of prices under section 22 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act and the functions of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission under section 19. Under section 22 the Minister for Health determines the prices for products supplied to the Commonwealth. Such prices are determined after consultation with the Commission and having regard to a reasonable cost to the Laboratories in regard to such products. I make the point that In my experience that is a pretty frequent occurrence in the life of the Minister. Not only does it relate to the determination of prices of new products such as rubella vaccine handled by the Laboratories, which is the purpose of this Act, but there is constant revision of prices for existing products which the Laboratories are providing to the Commonwealth to see that the prices paid for them by the Commonwealth are appropriate in today's circumstances. 
But I stress that this is determined in consultation with the Laboratories, and anybody who knows our ex-colleague, Frank Davis, w ill know that he is not the sort of person who as  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission would do anything but drive a pretty hard bargain in the interests of his conception of what responsibility the organisation he heads should hold. But the point I want to make is that usually the Laboratories make no loss on this at all. They get a reasonable price to cover their cost for handling these products on behalf of the Commonwealth. In cases where reserve stocks are held by the Laboratories under the provisions of section 19 or research is carried out into non-prescribed products, the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed under section 38 for whichever is least: The loss in relation to reserve stocks, research in relation to non-prescribed products, or the overall loss of the Laboratories. I do not consider that this is an unreasonable approach. In relation to rubella vaccine, it is envisaged that sufficient stocks will be held only to meet requirements for immunisation campaigns and accordingly no determination in relation to the holdings of reserve stocks is envisaged in that case. 
Section 21, which was also referred to by the honourable member, refers to the following of a commercial policy in relation to prescribed products under section 19 (a) of the Act. This policy does not extend to non-prescribed product research or reserve stocks held under section 19 (b) and, as indicated earlier, provision is made for a Commonwealth payment to the Commission in a loss situation. The honourable member referred to a number of other matters covering the capitalisation of the Commission and so on which he had taken from comments made by the Public Accounts Committee and comments made by both the Treasury and my Department to the Public Accounts Committee. All I can say in answering him in respect of (hose questions is that the sorts of considerations raised by the Public Accounts Committee have been under consideration by my Department for some time and are currently being considered by the Government. I am not in a position to say what, if any, changes the Government might make in respect of them until such time as that is completed. With respect to the latter part of the honourable gentleman's remark, with which he openly admitted that he did not expect me to agree, he said that it would be the function of the Labor Party when it came to office to use the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to drive the private drug firms in Australia out of business. He is quite right; I do not agree with him. I would like to correct a misstatement that he made in respect of the policy applied by the Government to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and their commercial activities. No percentage limitation is imposed on the output of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in relation to those of other pharmaceutical companies. 
I am saying that no percentage limitation is imposed by the Government on the output of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in relation to those of other pharmaceutical companies. From recollection, that figure does represent about . the proportion of the market that the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have. I am at a loss to understand the honourable gentleman's economics when he talks of a situation in which 24 drug firms in Australia have 50% of the market. He speaks of that as a cartel situation. It is a long time since I did any formal economic training, but that was certainly not the state of affairs which was described to me in those days as a cartel situation. I believe the drug industry in Australia to be highly competitive. 
When the honourable member for Oxley spoke of the intention of the Labor Party when it comes into office to extend the activities of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in the commercial field with the objective of driving prices down, he did say that he would not do this if it could be proved that cheaper prices for drugs were not achieved. The only way in which I can envisage that that could be proved would be by undertaking the operation and seeing whether it is or is not. There is going to be an enormous waste of the taxpayers' money in attempting to prove what I believe any fairminded person - somebody not prejudiced in advance by these considerations - would know to be the ultimate result. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have an essential function in the public health field in Australia but expansion beyond the production of biological products is a matter which the Government is not prepared to consider at this stage. The Government does not believe that it would be in the interests of either the pharmaceutical benefits scheme or anything else in relation to the supply of drugs in Australia. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley) - I claim to have been misrepresented on 2 scores. First of all, I did not say that the Labor Party would set about destroying the private drug companies. I merely said that we would compete against them and we believed that we would out-compete them. The other thing that the Minister said that was not correct - although he may be right - was that there is no restriction on the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. On 10th December 1965 the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  - I do not know what portfolio he administered then - said, as has been said by other Ministers in this House- 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Departmental statistics show that in 15.6% of applications settled in 1967-68 and in 12.3% of applications settled in 1968-69 the applicants were given approval to supplement their War Service Homes loan with some form of secondary private borrowing. The statistics do not differentiate between supplementary finance raised on the security of a second mortgage and other forms of borrowing. 
Applicants for assistance are not required to disclose the interest rate charged on secondary borrowing and it is impracticable to provide details of the average interest rate charged. 
I have over the years been most interested in the types of theories about the causes of war which have been alluded to by the honourable member. I have myself, however, never been able, although I have studied them, to take them very seriously. I agree that they must be given some weight but as single causes of war I do not attach very much importance to them. However there is a very able psychiatrist attached to my Department and if his services would be useful in relation to the honourable gentleman I would be glad to make him available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information in the following answer, where relating to State nursing activities, has been provided by the various State Authorities. 
No pamphlets relating to the new health benefits plan have been printed for distribution to the public. This cannot be done until the legislation has been passed by this Parliament. In the interest of getting information to the public as quickly as possible precautions have been taken to set up the proposed information in type, but I emphasise that that is as far as the exercise has gone, lt is as far as it will go until the Bill has been passed by the Parliament. 
There is in Australia a mood of concern about the future of the nursing profession. The Government shares this mood but, unlike the Opposition, cannot agree that there are simplistic and immediate answers available. However, it does agree that answers must be found to the problems of recruiting nurses, preventing wastage within their ranks and, above all providing them with a job satisfaction they deserve. The Commonwealth Government is fully prepared to play its rightful part in improving the job satisfaction of nurses and maintaining their sense of vocation but I must point out that the Commonwealth is only one of the parties in this process. The Commonwealth Government is responsible for health services, and therefore for employing nursing staff, in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. It has an interest and a concern about the provision of health services and therefore of nurses in the States but it is not constitutionally responsible for those services. The States are, of course, the largest employers of nurses in Australia and in its attempts to assist the. nursing and health services, the Commonwealth would be irresponsible to regard the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory as islands to be artificially insulated from the States. By that I do not mean that the training, the conditions and the wages of nurses in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory must be exactly the same as in the States. There is no need for uniformity for the sake of uniformity but at least what happens in the Commonwealth Territories must be recognised as having an interaction on the conditions of nurses in the States. 
There are several aspects of the nursing question which need to be examined. The Opposition has consistently laid great stress on the matter of wages. This is, 1 acknowledge, a very important matter but it is not the complete answer, as, indeed, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  acknowledged. As all honourable members know, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has reviewed the salaries of nurses in the Australian Capital Territory and has given judgment'. The Government believes that wage claims are best settled by the arbitration process. In the case of Australian Capital Territory nurses, their claim was considered by a Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission. The case covered the nursing, staff qf the Canberra Community Hospital and certain other nursing staff in the Australian Capital Territory. The Canberra Hospital Board and the Minister for Health were parties in the case as employers, as were the Canberra Mothercraft Society and the Commonwealth Public Service Board in respect of other groups affected by the claims. However, I would point out that the Commonwealth as such took no part in the case. The nurses were not satisfied with the judgment handed down by the Commission and have requested that the matter be referred back for reconsideration by another Full Bench of the Commission. In the light of this it would not be appropriate for me to comment on these wage claims at this time, lt is not appropriate at this stage for me to try to review the equity of a wages case which is still under consideration by the Commission other than to say that the Government believes that the ultimate judgment by the highest arbitration tribunal in the land is one which must be respected by all parties concerned. 
But apart from the matter of wages there are other matters which should be examined. Amongst the major problems facing the nursing profession today one of the most important is education. Quite recently a report prepared for me by a special Australian Capital Territory committee on nursing education has been released for public discussion. The report stresses the need to adapt and improve the educational component of nursing training and recommends an early examination of the feasibility of establishing a central nursing school in the Australian Capital Territory. I am happy to have such an examination carried out. I have also, in line with recommendations in the report, asked my Department to look into the question of an Australian Capital Territory nursing education authority and to discuss with the appropriate authorities the possible establishment of a tertiary level basic course in general nursing and post-graduate courses. I understand that reports containing similar recommendations have been released in various States throughout Australia. 1 have no doubt that this subject of nursing education is one which can be usefully discussed between the States and the Commonwealth and 1 will do my best to see that such discussions take place. To assist in this objective 1 have also recently asked the Nursing Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council to make any recommendations it feels may be appropriate. The National Health and Medical Research Council exists to advise both the Commonwealth and the States as appropriate. According to the report prepared for me by the Australian Capital Territory Committee on Nursing Education it seems there may have to be a change in emphasis away from hospital oriented nursing training towards a more generalised nursing and public health basic education. If this is so the implications for the recruitment and status of nurses may be quite profound. These are very big questions and I would hope to see them discussed fully between the States and Commonwealth so that at least general lines of approach and commitment can be agreed upon. 
In the more immediate future the financial problems inherent in attracting and retaining nurses do, of course, loom large for the States. The problem of maintaining nursing staffs and of providing working environments which adequately reward nurses is one which is related to the whole question of hospital and health services, As I have already pointed out health services, as distinct from health benefit payments, are constitutionally the firm and primary responsibility of the States. But just as in the planning of the new medical benefits system this Government used as a basis the facts of medical life as they exist in this country, so do we intend to have regard to the facts as they affect hospital life. It is with this in mind that the Commonwealth has engaged in intensive discussions with the States in recent weeks on those aspects of the Nimmo Committee report which have a bearing on the provision of hospital services. Financial problems affecting the recruitment and maintenance of nursing staff will certainly be considered in the context of these CommonwealthState discussions. 
In addition even to the factors of financial rewards for nurses and of education, there are other matters which impinge on nursing. For instance, the very much wider range of job opportunities available to women nowadays must mean that many young women who only a few years ago would have chosen nursing as a career now choose other work. This widening of employment opportunities is socially to be welcomed but it must be acknowledged as a factor in the recruitment and retention of nurses. There is also the somewhat intangible factor of the motivation of those who choose the challenging career of nursing. This motivation can to some degree be influenced by wages and conditions but these can never be the only elements in forming a sense of vocation. I am inclined to agree with those observers who note as one of the more encouraging traits of the young people of today a concern about the personal satisfactions of the work they choose as well as the material rewards they may gain from that work. Governments cannot create this kind of vocational idealism by monetary rewards or by waving any magic legislative wand. The best they can do  &lt;s  to see that those who do have a sense of vocation are not exploited and to try to provide for such people rewards in terms of adequate pay, generous and understanding conditions reflecting the difficulties of the work and opportunities for training and advancement. Ultimately, however, the status and rewards given to a career such as nursing must depend on the interplay of attitudes throughout the whole community. 
In the Australian Capital Territory I believe the situation is that the pay and conditions available to nurses, while not strictly comparable because of different classifications and penalty loadings, are not significantly different from those in other States where they have recently been reviewed. The matters causing the dissatisfaction amongst Canberra nurses are not therefore merely local issues. No properly comparable figures of the ratio of nurses to hospital beds over the whole of Australia are available since several different methods of recording are in use in the various States. It is possible, however, to gain some idea of the nursing staff situation in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales by reference to figures for individual hospitals. The Australian and New Zealand Hospitals and Health Services Year Book 1969 shows that in the previous year the Canberra Community Hospital had a daily average of occupied beds of 409 and a nursing staff of S30. In the large provincial centres, Royal Newcastle Hospital had an adjusted daily average of 713 beds and 461 nurses. The Wollongong Hospital had a daily average of 327 occupied beds and 324 nurses. In Sydney the Prince Henry Hospital had a daily average of 549 occupied beds and 629 nurses. The Royal North Shore Hospital had 595 occupied beds and 688 nurses. 
Since there is obviously a concern in the Australian community generally about the problems of nursing as a career the Government, while insisting that wages must remain a question for the proper tribunals, is ready to do whatever it can to ass:st in the areas where it has responsibility. But 1 want to emphasise that there are other authorities which have responsibilities, and nurses themselves and the community generally must also be prepared to examine their attitudes. The assertions made by the Opposition on this matter cannot be supported but inasmuch as this debate will help to focus the attention of the community on the current and future problems of our nurses then I believe it is worthwhile. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This question which is directly related to Questions No 527 and 781 asked by the honourable member on 9lh April 1970 and 16th April 1970 respectively, involves a question of future Government policy, and as indicated in the replies given on those occasions, it is impracticable to provide an answer to a question of this nature. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A quarantine permit to land 1,900 tons of whale meat from the Antarctic was issued on 25th March 1970. Such a permit is issued in respect of whale meat from Antarctic whales only, as these whales do not carry diseases which could be transmitted to animals or man. 
Whale meat is checked on arrival by the quarantine authorities. Advice of the quarantine release of each consignment is conveyed to the State Departments of Health for any action considered necessary by it under the relevant State legislation. 
Whale meat is kept in cold storage in Melbourne, lt is stored under secure conditions and is transported as required in locked trucks to the manufacturer of pet food. The State Department of Health advises that to its knowledge all of the consignments of whale meat removed from cold store have been transferred direct to the factory for processing into pet foods, and that Department has no evidence that any of the whale meat has been diverted lo small goods manufacturers or the retail meat trade. 
Yes. When whale meat is carried in a refrigerated truck no meat for human consumption is carried in that truck at the same time. After the vehicle has carried whale meat normal hygiene cleansing procedures are undertaken to ensure effective cleaning. When whale meat is kept in cold storage it is kept separately from meat which is stored for human consumption. 
See (2) above. As well, the importation of whale meat from the Antarctic poses no threat to the livestock industry, and the Victorian Department of Health advises that it does not consider that any risk to public health is involved. 
I understand from my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise, that whale meat is not classified as fish. If suitable for human consumption it would be dutiable at 2.5 cents per pound plus 10%, Whale meat unfit for human consumption is free of duty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The facilities of the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratory are available to Commonwealth Departments and Instrumentalities. 
Arrangements can be made for the facilities of the 1 Laboratory to be made available at the railway workships at Port Augusta if requested by the appropriate authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive measures are implemented under the Quarantine Act 1908-1969 to prevent an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australia. 
The importation of susceptible species from countries where the disease exists is prohibited. 
The importation of many animal products such as uncanned meat, milk, animal casings, fertilisers and slock feed of animal origin, is prohibited from foot and mouth disease countries. Other animal products from such countries are either accompanied by valid certificates of disinfection or are disinfected under quarantine control when they arrive. 
Vaccines, cultures and the like are subject to special permission for importation and if any risk exists of foot and mouth disease or other unwanted virus being present permission is not granted. 
Empty cattle vessels arriving in Australian ports, if not scrupulously clean, are cleaned and disinfected on arrival and before loading Australian animals. 
Migrants corning from foot and mouth disease countries are carefully screened and if they are rural' people (i.e. have had contact with farm animals or animal products) they are usually obliged to travel by sea vessel. This is to reduce the risk of any chance virus contamination surviving and to facilitate inspection of heavy baggage on arrival. In some cases these 'rural' migrants are allowed to travel by air (e.g. if sea transport is impracticable) in which cases their baggage is inspected for prohibited items such as meat and salami, and any clothing which has not been freshly laundered or dry cleaned. If found these articles are removed.  At  the same lime any risk footwear is disinfected.  All  this is done under the supervision of Australian Medical Officers and in addition their baggage is subjected to 100% inspection on arrival in Australia. 
With the co-operation of the Department of Customs and Excise an examination of passengers baggage is made for quarantine prohibited items and the passenger is obliged to declare whether he or any of his family accompanying him have had contact with farm animals or animal products in the last 3 months. If so. and if the contact was in a foot and mouth disease country, footwear is disinfected and any unlaundered working clothes are removed for laundering. The passenger is also obliged to declare any quarantine items as a preliminary to examination of his baggage. 
To prevent entry of disease by overseas ships garbage, this item is strictly controlled at all Australian ports. To facilitate safe disposal the Commonwealth has offered to grant to each State the necessary finance for the installation of incinerators at ports where overseas vessels call. Many incinerators are either operating or under construction and others are in the planning stage. 
More recently a problem was posed by the advent of oil exploration at remote areas around the Australian coast. To eliminate risk of infective material coming ashore, each oil rig is stripped of overseas meat and other prohibited items on arrival thus being obliged to restock their larders with Australian foodstuffs. 
I would add that the efforts of the Animal Quarantine Service are especially directed to preventing the introduction of foot and mouth disease into Australia in the realisation that precautions taken against the entry of this disease will cover many of the other exotic diseases of ruminant animals and pigs. 
Some years ago my Department initiated action for all States to prepare detailed contingency plans for the eradication of foot and mouth disease if it ever occurs in Australia. 
These plans have been finalised and have been adopted by the Australian Agricultural Council. 
In the event of an outbreak the Commonwealth has agreed to meet 50% of the expenses of eradication and the States, collectively, the other 50%, regardless of where an outbreak may occur. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of refusal to grant increased wages to nursing aides employed at the Canberra Hospital did not arise. The pay increase recently applied to the qualified nursing staff at the Can berra Hospital was approved following a pay review conducted by the Public Service Board in respect of qualified nursing staff employed under the Public Service Act. The Public Service Board's pay review did not include nursing aides. These new pay rates for qualified nursing staff applied from the first pay period commencing on or after 4th December 1969. 
Subsequently, action was taken to increase the pay rates of certain auxiliary staff, including nursing aides, at the Canberra Hospital with effect from the first pay period commencing on or after 19th December 1969. These increases were approved following the decision of the Public Service Board to increase the pay rates for what are generally known as 'physical grades* staff. 
The pay increases for qualified nursing staff on the one hand and auxiliary staff (including nursing aides) on the other hand derived from separate pay reviews. 
The rates paid to qualified nurses and nursing aides at the Canberra Hospital take into account the fact that the duties performed by both categories is work essentially or usually performed by females but is work upon which male employees may also be employed. 
It was decided that male nursing aides employed at the time of the pay increases applying on and from the first pay period commencing on or after 19th December 1969 should, on a purely personal basis, receive the same pay increases on that occasion as provided for females. It was also decided that such male nursing aides would receive no further pay increases until their then current personal rates are exceeded by the 'rate for the job'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l) 
The  answer  to  the honourable  member's  question  is as  follows: 
I recently received a new submission, dated 5th March 1970, from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia requesting an increase in National Health dispensing fees and I referred this submission to the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements for examination and advice, as this is the normal procedure. I received the Joint Committee's report on this submission on 20 April 1970 and I am at present considering the report 
Remuneration for dispensing National Health prescriptions is paid to chemists by way of a dispensing fee plus a markup on the wholesale price of the drugs supplied. The dispensing fees are 30 cents for ready - prepared benefits and 55 cents for those benefits where the chemist mixes the ingredients. The rates of markup are 331/3% and 50% respectively. These remuneration rates have not changed since 1961 but the amount of remuneration per prescription has increased and the number of National Health prescriptions has increased substantially since 1961. The amount of remuneration paid to chemists by the Commonwealth per annum has increased from $29.2 million in 1961-62 to $45.5 million in 1968-69, an increase of 56% over the period. Even after allowing for the increased number of pharmacies this still represents an average increase in remuneration of 33% per chemist. 
The information on National Health dispensing costs from the past survey relates to 1964-65 and the only way to obtain current information on the costs of dispensing National Health prescriptions is to have another survey. The Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, which comprises equal Guild and Government representation under an independent  chairman (Sir Walter Scott),  concurs with this. When the Government, after examining the report from the last survey, advised the Pharmacy Guild in mid-1969 of its decision not to increase National Health dispensing fees, it also invited the Guild to participate in a new survey so that a further review of chemists' remuneration could be carried out in the light of changing cost structures. The Guild has not yet signified whether it will accept the Government's offer of a new survey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I have not received any request from the Federal Pharmacy Guild for a meeting with me on chemists' remuneration for National Health dispensing since the meeting I had with an official Guild deputation on 18th July 1969, at the request of the Guild, in relation to the Government's decision (as advised to the Guild in my letter of 20 June 1969) on the Guild's application for increased diepensing fees. 
(a) The Government and the Guild jointly had a survey carried out by an independent firm of consultants on the costs of dispensing National Health prescriptions and in mid-1969 the Government decided, after examining the survey report, that National Health dispensing fees would remain unaltered. When conveying this decision to the Pharmacy Guild the Government invited the Guild to participate in a new survey so that a further review of chemists' remuneration could be carried out, but the Guild has not yet signified whether it will accept the offer of a new survey. I recently received a new submission, dated 5 March 1970, from the Pharmacy Guild requesting an increase in dispensing fees and 1 referred the submission to the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements for examination and advice, as this is the normal procedure. I received the Joint Committee's report on this submission on 20 April 1970 and I am at present considering this report. As soon as possible I will write to the Federal President of the Pharmacy Guild on this matter. 
The Pharmacy Guild was advised by letter of 20 June 1969, of the Government's decision on the Guild's previous application for increased dispensing fees. 
The Government was exercising a right under the then existing arrangement with the Guild when, in 1961, it advised the Guild that, because of the 'freakish' result yielded by the updating formula, it wished to negotiate a new arangement for future adjustments in National Health dispensing fees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
March, 1961. 
National Health dispensing fees were in creased by 10%. In addition to dispensing fees chemists also receive, as part of their remuneration for dispensing National Health prescriptions, a markup on the wholesale price of the drugs supplied. The rate of markup is 331% for readyprepared benefits and 50% for those benefits where the chemist mixes the ingredients. 
The Pharmacy Guild has applied for a 20% increase in National Health dispensing fees but this bore little relationship to the increase in actual costs during the period concerned, being the previous year. The Government granted a 10% increase in dispensing fees in 1961 but at the same time it exercised a right under the then existing arrangement with the Guild when it advised the Guild that, because of the "freakish" result yielded by the updating formula, it wished to negotiate a new arrangement for future adjustments in National Health dispensing fees. 
This is not known (see replies to 5 and 6, hereunder). (5 and 6) The Government and the Guild jointly had a survey carried out by an independent firm of consultants on the costs of dispensing National Health prescriptions, and in mid-1969 the Government decided, after examining the survey report, that National Health dispensing fees would remain unaltered. When conveying this decision to the Pharmacy Guild the Government invited the Guild to participate in a new survey so that a further review of chemists' remuneration could be carried out in the light of changing cost structures, but the Guild has not yet signified whether it will accept the offer of a new survey. I recently received a new submission, dated 5th March 1970, from the Pharmacy Guild, requesting an increase in dispensing fees, and I referred the submission to the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements for examination and advice, as this is the normal procedure. I received the Joint Committee's report on this submission on 20th April 1970, and I am at present considering this report. As soon as possible I will write to the Federal President of the Pharmacy Guild on the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comparable estimates of expenditure upon health services in Australia are only available in respect of total recurrent expenditure in the years 1960-61, 1963-64 and 1966-67. The estimated recurrent expenditure in these years is $683.79m, $851.23m and $1, 118.53m respectively. 
This information is not available in my Department. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The last survey conducted by the Department was in 1968 and the methods used by the registered health benefits organisations and the Australian Medical Association in 1969 did not differ in any significant way from those used by the Department 
The results of the last survey conducted by the Department in 1968, were given to the representatives of the registered health benefits organisations and the Australian Medical Association at the meeting of the Commonwealth Health Insurance Council held on 27th and 28th November 1968. 
The Department will survey data relating to medical benefits and doctors' fees on a continuous basis when the reconstructed medical benefits scheme comes into operation. 
-I move: 
That the requested amendment  be  made. 
Clause 5 of the Homes Savings Grant Bill lays down the conditions with which individual credit unions are required to comply if they are to become and remain approved credit unions for the purposes of the homes savings grant scheme. One of these conditions is that not less than 15% of the total amount lent by a credit union in its most recently concluded financial year must have been in the form of prescribed housing loans. The Bill as it was passed by this House defines a prescribed housing loan as a housing loan of not less than $7,000 repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. The term 'housing loan' is also defined in clause 5. The Senate has now returned the Bill to this House with a request for an amendment that would reduce from$7,000 to $5,000 the proposed minimum amount of a prescribed housing loan. The request was made by the Senate on a motion by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  after she had had the opportunity of hearing submissions made in the Senate as well as by representatives of the credit union movement. 
The Government has accepted the point made in these submissions, that its objective of promoting an increase in the volume of savings available for home finance could in fact be advanced if the minimum amount of a prescribed housing loan were set at a figure that, while still relatively substantial, would be more readily attainable by individual credit unions. 
When the honourable gentleman raised with me the other day the general question of answering his questions I gave a general reply which still stands. At that time I indicated to him that if he would let me know which of the questions that he had on the notice paper had priority in his mind I would give them priority. Indeed he did indicate to me or to my office his wish to have I question answered, lt related to nursing and obtaining the answer involved an enormous amount of work, telephone calls all over Australia and almost a week's work for 2 officers. However my Department obtained the information for him in the time in which he required it. I now lake this question to mean that he gives priority to the question he mentioned and I will treat it in the same way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In respect ofthe Pensioner Medical Service and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, doctors have been excluded by the Minister for Health following inquiries held by the Medical Services Committees of Inquiry. 
These committees are established in each State under Section 110 of the National Health Act. It is not my normal policy to make public the names of the doctors involved. 
Other exclusions have taken place in accordance with Section 133 of the National Health Act subsequent to a doctor being charged before a court. 
Exclusions from the Repatriation Local Medical Officer Service have taken place as a result of failure by participating doctors to comply with the conditions of their appointment. 
Deregistration of a doctor by a State medical board would, of course, result in exclusion from participation in the Pensioner Medical Scheme, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and the Repatriation Local Medical Officer Service. 
The numbers of doctors excluded from the three schemes are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A figure of 90% return on medical fees was not promised during the election campaign. What was promised was that 'Commonwealth medical benefits and fund benefits will be increased so that the difference between the benefit entitlements and fees most commonly charged by doctors will not exceed $5 even for the most complicated and costly surgical procedures. For simpler procedures which are less expensive, the difference between the benefits and doctors' common fees will be very much less . . . We are aiming at the following margin between total benefit entitlements and doctors' common fees: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The new Health Benefits Plan will provide for the payment of medical benefits at the specialist rate for certain sen-ices when rendered! by a specialist or consultant physician in the practice of his specialty to a patient who has been referred by another medical practitioner. 
For this purpose, it will bc necessary that the specialist or consultant physician be recognised as such under the National Health Act. The criteria to be applied to the question of such recognition will be specialist registration under State or Territory law or, in other cases, the medical practitioner's qualifications, his experience and standing in the medical profession and the nature of his practice. The new arrangements will allow specialist recognition of medical practitioners who are fully qualified by training and experience for such recognition, even though they may not be engaged in fulltime practice of a particular specialty. The necessity for some form of accreditation of general practitioners on a regional basis, as suggested by the honourable member, will therefore not arise. 
In accordance with Government policy, the Pensioner Medical Service at present extends to general practitioner services only. 
Association of Professional Engineers: 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The Department is concerned to establish that an applicant has, or will have, sufficient finance to complete the transaction in respect of which a Homes Savings Grant is sought. It does not. however, seek details of the terms on which finance has been obtained nor are these usually supplied by the applicant. 
 Tht  Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ratio of hospital bed's per thousand people in Canberra during the past 10 years was as follows: 
Wilh the present plans and projected population increases the ratio of hospital beds per thousand in the next ten years will be as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
the Nimmo Committee did not make any recommendation as to the levels of Commonwealth or fund medical benefits other than to say that benefits should be equal to the amount of the established common fees less a specified amount per service. 
the plan submitted by the A.M.A. on behalf of the Joint Working Party representing Medical Benefits Organisations and the Australian Medical Association on 25th July 1969 included a number of proposals which at that time were not fully developed. The cost of the plan in the form then presented cannot be determined. 
the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs did not make any recommendations as to the levels of Commonwealth or fund medical benefit other than to say that combined Commonwealth and fund benefits should be 90% of the accepted most common fee. 
Pensioners: Oxygen-administering  Equipment  (Question No. 788) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The question of making oxygen available as a pharmaceutical benefit, including the provision of oxygen-administering equipment, is currently under consideration by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At a Conference between Commonwealth and State Ministers for Health in February 1964  it  was agreed unanimously that  a  campaign would  be  undertaken jointly by the Commonwealth and Suites to inform young people of the hazard's of smoking. 
In respect of implementing that agreement, it was subsequently agreed at later CommonwealthState conferences on the subject, that health education programmes should  be  instituted and directed mainly towards school children. These educational programmes have been mainly  a  State function, but the Commonwealth  has  co-operated in its own Territories. A voluntary code  of  Cigarette Advertising, the main aim of which  was  to 'prevent cigarette advertising being directed  towards  young people', was introduced  bythe  Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations on 1 January 1966. The Code resulted from discussions between the then Minister for Health, the Federation and the cigarette manufacturing industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated total extra cost to the Commonwealth Government would be $3. 5m per annum over and above the cost of the proposals currently before Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since my appointment as Minister for Health 1 have had numerous discussions with representatives of such organisations as the Australian Dental Association, the Australian Physiotherapy Association and the Australian Optometrical Association. 
The question of extending the National Health Scheme to cover ancillary services is under examination by the Government. 
It was the opinion of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance that it would not be feasible to bring these ancillary services within the operation of the insurance scheme unless they were heavily subsidised by the Commonwealth Government In view of the great increase in expenditure in other areas of National Health currently being introduced it may be difficult to arrange for further extensions of the National Health Scheme at this stage. 
The annual expenditure in Australia on each of these ancillary services is not known but it is estimated in the aggregate to be in excess of $100m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department conducted surveys of - 
Public hospital costs for the years 1963-64 to 1967-68. 
Nursing home costs for the years 1964-65 to 1966-67. 
The average costs per occupied bed day (including out-patients' costs) in public hospitals revealed by the surveys were: 
What Commonwealth expenditure has been incurred with respect to the design of the hospital. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following acceptance by the Church authorities of the Government's offer of 4th October 1966, the Department assisted the Little Company of Mary in negotiations for  a  site and in the preparation of a brief for the Order's architects. Details of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Order were also finalised. 
After a year of planning and negotiation the hospital architects advised that the estimate for a 200-bed hospital of appropriate standard was $5. 5m. Various alternatives within the Government's agreed level of commitments were discussed between the Department of Health and the Little Company of Mary. The Department of Health could not, of course, vary the level of Government commitment. In December of 1967 the Church authorities, approached the then Prime Minister about the Government's level of commitment to the Calvary Hospital project and in January of 1968 the then Prime Minister replied to the effect that the Government was prepared to provide assistance for the construction of a 200-bed hospital at a capital cost comparable to that which would be incurred by the Government if it were itself directly providing the facilities. This undertaking by the Government was a variation of the original offer to provide assistance on a S3 for $1 basis up to a ceiling contribution by the Government of $3m for a hospital of up to 200 beds. The ceiling figure under which the early planning of the hospital was carried out, was, in effect, removed and a new comparative basis was introduced in regard to cost. Planning by the Church authorities was then recommenced on this new basis. 
After planning had proceeded for another year, two factors were reported by the Department of Health to be causing concern. These were that, because of delays in architectural matters the possible timetable for construction of Calvary Hospital was apparently falling behind, and that the estimated costs of Calvary Hospital had again increased. In November of 1968 the hospital architects had advised that the estimated cost stood at $7.287m. A later estimate given in June 1969 was $7.847m. 
Negotiations ensued revolving around time and cost estimates. The cost estimates for Calvary Hospital were higher than estimates of the costs Which would be incurred if the Government were to build the hospital itself. The design of the hospital was judged by both the Department of Works and the Department of Health to bc uneconomic, largely because the services designed into it were apparently sufficient for close to a 300 bed rather than a 200 bed hospital. 
After discussions and explorations of means of maintaining the project, it became apparent that further Government decisions were needed to resolve the matter. 
The facts of the situation were placed before the Government in December 1969. A decision was subsequently made by the Government that stage two of the Woden Hospital should be expedited as the most practical early means of obtaining additional hospital beds for the Australian Capital Territory and that the construction of Calvary Hospital should be deferred. 
Further discussions have now taken place with the Little Company of Mary with a view to the construction in Canberra of a 300 bed hospital to be built to the Order's plans. The Government is willing to provide, as previously, substantial financial assistance, and to have the project under construction in 1974. The Government has not abandoned the project. 
Payments made by the Commonwealth to the Little Company of Mary to date total $266,294. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 a total amount of $5,000,000 is available to be paid to the States over a five year period from 1.7.69 by way of financial assistance for, or in connection with, erection of approved nursing homes. 
The amounts available to each State in this period are: 
To date no payments of Commonwealth assistance have been made under this Act but proposals have been received from the States of Queensland and Western Australia seeking prior approval to incur expenditure and are currently being examined. 
Prior to the introduction of this Act there was no specific Commonwealth legislation which provided capital cost subsidy to nursing homes as such in the States. 
Details of the actual number of patients who have received Commonwealth Nursing Home Benefits during any year are not maintained. However the number of approved beds and the number of days for which benefit was paid in each State in each of the last five years are given in the following table: (a) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only form of free medical treatment at present provided under the National Health Scheme is that available to eligible pensioners and their dependants through the Pensioner Medical Service. This comprises a free medical service of a general practitioner nature, such as that normally provided by a doctor in his surgery or in the patient's home, but does not extend to the provision of specialist treatment or to allied health services such as those provided by optometrists. 
Careful consideration has been given from time to time to extending the scope of the Pensioner Medical Service, but it has not been found possible to do so up to the present. 
In these circumstances, I cannot promise an early move towards the provision of Commonwealth assistance under the Pensioner Medical Service in regard to the examination for and supply of spectacles. 
It may be of interest to the honourable member that at the two public hospitals in Adelaide - the Queen Elizabeth and the Royal Adelaide - I understand a full optometrical service is available free of charge to pensioners. 
Stale  Companies  Act: Election  of  Directors (Question No.  913) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
Year ended 30th June 1969 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The additional cost in this financial year to settle without any waiting period all applications for loans which meet the requirements of the War Service Homes Act is estimated to be $5,000,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
The information provided below relates only to the Australian Capital Territory and the 
Northern Territory. Similar procedures, if operated in the various States, are the responsibility of State Governments. 
Where a medical practitioner, practising in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory considers an eligible Social Service pensioner to be in need of urgent physiotherapy treatment he may refer that patient, by letter, to either the Canberra Hospital or to a hospital in the Northern Territory, as appropriate. 
Forms arc not in use for this service. The patient has only to present his letter of referral together with his Pensioner Medical Service Entitlement Card to the hospital authority. 
to (5) Treatment is generally immediately available and therefore the need for verbal approval does not arise. There is no occasion for the patient to be examined by a departmental medical officer. 
It is considered that the procedure is adequate, and is functioning satisfactorily in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 1 understand that under the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service administered by the Department of Social Services eligible invalid and widows pensioners may be considered for rehabilitation treatment (including physiotheraphy) providing there are reasonable prospects of the pensioner commencing employment within 3 years. While each case is automatically considered for rehabilitation following grant of a pension it is possible for a medical practitioner or pensioner to request that his or her case be investigated for rehabilitation purposes. There are no special procedures or application forms. The request is merely made in person or in writing to the nearest office of the Department of Social Services. 
Answering the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, I wish to inform him that the Government has made a decision on that particular proposal and I conveyed this decision to the State Health Ministers at their conference as long ago as March. The Government rejected the application by the States on the long standing policy ground of the Government that responsibility for mental health is a responsibility for the States. In relation to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, the Government is currently giving consideration to what, if anything, will replace the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act on its expiration at the end of this month and when the Government has made a decision an announcement will be made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia is a company limited by guarantee and registered under the Companies Act of New South Wales. That Act requires a copy of the Articles of Association to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in Sydney. The document may be perused at the Registrar's Office or a copy of the document may be obtained upon the payment of the appropriate fees. The Articles of Association are thus readily available to anyone who wishes to see them and it is not considered appropriate that they be tabled in this House. 
No. it is not a fact that no Commonwealth funds are made available for research into multiple sclerosis. Practically all the money that the Commonwealth makes available for medical research is made available through the National Health and Medical Research Council. The sum of money that is made available has increased substantially in recent years. In the past, and currently, grants have been and are being made for the broad field which covers the disease which the honourable member mentioned. J share with him a great deal of sympathy for the sufferers from this disease, and I am very glad to be able to inform him that the 
Commonwealth is making a contribution towards what I hope will be the ultimate solution. 
 Sir, as  I have announced already - in fact, as long ago as 3rd March - the Government -accepted the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee in relation to the desirable level of the reserves of the funds. It was stated at that time that the Government intended to achieve this objective, which is that the desirable level of the reserves of the funds should be 3 months free reserves, over a period by passing on . the benefits, where appropriate, to contributors. Therefore, I am able to give the honourable gentleman the assurance which he seeks- 
I have given it already.' Indeed, in the process of making decisions with the assistance of the Registration Committee as to what the contribution rates will be for each medical fund when and if our new scheme comes into being - that is, when the Parliament sees fit finally to decide upon it - and in the process of assessing what the contribution rates of each fund will be, the question of these reserves has been taken into account. The honourable gentleman will see then that the rate of contribution will vary quite considerably between one fund and another, as a result of the process of running down the reserves. 
However, there is one thing I will say. The reserves of the funds are in 2 separate categories - the medical funds on the one hand and the hospital funds on the other. What we are doing at the present time in relation to contribution rates for the medical funds refers only to the reserves' of the medical funds. It is in the hospital funds that the reserves are most substantial and the process of achieving our objectives of 3 months free reserves in relation to them will need to await the outcome of the Government's decision on the hospital recommendations of the Nimmo report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The members of the Executive Committee of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia Ltd are appointed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company.  Mr P.  G. Huxley was appointed to the Executive Committee by the Lewisham Hospital which is a constituent hospital of the H C.F. 
Section 76 of the National Health Act sets down the . requirements in regard to financial returns that registered organisations must submit annually to the Director-General of Health. The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia has complied with these requirements and the financial statements submitted contain the Auditors report made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act of New South Wales. The Auditors reports are unqualified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no specific and uniformly applied qualifications for the recognition of specialist medical practitioners in Australia. However, the following factors are generally considered within the profession to be relevant: 
possession of an appropriate degree or diploma as evidence of higher academic qualifications in a special branch of medical practice; 
appointment in a special branch of medicine or surgery on the staff of an appropriate hospital; 
experience gained in the practice of a special branch of medicine or surgery during an appropriate period. 
In Queensland and South Australia. State legislation provides for the registration of medical practitioners as specialists. Western Australian legislation also provides for the registration of specialists for the purposes of workers' compensation law in that State. 
Yes. Certain medical practitioners' who are qualified by training and experience to be recognised as specialists engage in both general practice and specialist practice. The proportion of their practice devoted to general practitioner services and specialist services, respectively, may vary considerably, depending on individual circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While I have no specific figures in relation to these questions,I am informed that: (1)(a) Thereare approximately 14,000 members of the Australian Medical Association. 
The Society of General Practitioners claims to have a membership of approximately 1000. 
The break-up requested' by the honourable member cannot be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is only available in my Department for the five year period from 1963-64 to 1967-68. 
The percentage increases over this period were: 
41.3 per cent 
and (c) 40.7 per cent 
The increases in State and local authority expenditure cannot be provided separately 
70.0 per cent 
32.5 per cent 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A survey of pharmacy earnings, costs and profits was carried out, for the Government and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia jointly, by an independent firm of consultants. The survey showedin the Government's view that no increase in the Commonwealth payments to chemists for dispensing National Health prescriptions was justified. The survey information related to 1964-65 and in June 1969 the Government offered the Pharmacy Guild a new survey to obtain current factual information on National Health dispensing costs so that chemists' remuneration for dispensing National Health prescriptions could be reviewed in the light of changing cost structures. The Pharmacy Guild has not yet signified, however, whether it will accept the Government's offer of a new survey. (3)I am currently examining a new case submitted to me in March 1970 by the Pharmacy Guild of Austrtralia for an increase in National 
Health dispensing fees. As soon as possible I will be writing to the Federal President of the Pharmacy Guild on the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recommendations made by the Australian Capital Territory Hospital Planning Committee which were - 
rejected - 
the numbers and categories of beds for Stage 1 of the Woden Hospital were not acceptable in their entirety. 
the proposed establishment of an A.C.T. Hospitals Division. 
constitution of hospital boards comprised of three nominated and five elected members. 
implemented more than  one  year  after  being made- 
establishment  of  an A.C.T. Hospitals Advisory Committee. 
the administration  of  mothercraft services in the A.C.T. by  the  A.C.T. Health Services Office. 
Recommendations other  than those  listed under 1 (a)  above  have  been  implemented. 
(a) (i) 25th March 1965. 
(ii) and (ii)- 3rd June 1965. (b)(i) and (ii)- 3rd June 1965. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a statement concerning the National Health Bill before it is considered again in Committee. In particular, I desire to make some general comments regarding the  7  requests by the Senate for amendments to the Bill and the 12 amendments to the Bill made by the Senate. As honourable members are well aware, the parliamentary procedures for dealing with requests and amendments made by the Senate to a single Bill - as is the case with the National Health Bill - provide for the requests only to be dealt with by this House as a first step. The decisions of the House on the requests are then conveyed to the Senate which considers the decisions made by the House, before it refers the amendments to the Bill to this chamber for consideration. Because of this procedure, which prevents the requests and the amendments being dealt with in the one stage, it is important, I feel, for me to advise at this point of time of the attitude overall of the Government to the total of 19 requests and amendments that we have to consider. 
The first point I wish to stress is the need to have these requests and amendments viewed in their proper perspective. It could be inferred that the relatively large number involved is a reflection of the unacceptability of the Bill - and therefore the new health benefits plan - to the Senate. However this is by no means the case. Firstly, the basic principles of the health benefits plan as framed by the Government and as contained in the Bill have remained unchanged. These include the legislative provisions for the common fee approach as a means of ensuring adequate benefit returns to patients, the proposals for differential benefits as between specialist and general practitioner services and the major changes in the Commonwealth's relationship to the insurance organisations. No amendments have been proposed by the Senate in these areas. This must be taken as an indication that these fundamental principles are regarded as being sound and of course the Government is gratified to find that this is so. 
The second point I wish to make regarding the requests and amendments is that only 7 of the total number of 19 are directed to the Bill itself. The remaining 12  -  and I repeat 12 out of 19  -  are directed not to the Bill but to the principal Act. One of the most important requests made by the Senate is for an amendment to the Act to provide the Commonwealth benefit of $2 a day for all patients, whether or not the individual patient is insured. As honourable members are aware, the Bill is aimed basically at authorising the new medical benefits plan and touches on hospital benefits in only a consequential way. As I advised the House on 4th March last, the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee regarding hospital benefits had implications of such a far reaching nature that the Government is not in a position to make decisions on them at this stage and will not be able to until the States' attitudes have been clarified. I advised at that time that negotiations with the States would be actively pursued. Despite the vigorous pursuit of these negotiations, they have not reached a stage where the Government can formulate and bring forward its proposals in the hospital benefits area. Notwithstanding this, the Government is agreeable to dealing with the matter which is the subject of the amendment to which I have referred - to pay the commonwealth hospital benefit of $2 a day for all patients - in advance of a number of related matters. 
Briefly the Senate request No. 5 in the schedule of requests is to substitute the word 'person' for the word 'contributor' in section 46 of the principal Act with the intention of making every patient in hospital automatically eligible for the Commonwealth hospital benefit of $2 a day. Membership of a hospital benefits fund would no longer be a requirement. Speakers to this amendment in the Senate directed their comments mainly to the situation in Queensland where no charge is made on public ward patients. It was claimed that Queensland is disadvantaged as compared with other States due to its adherence over the years to a policy of free public hospitalisation. The Government is sympathetic to this argument and has been ever since the Nimmo Committee submitted its view that Queensland's policy gives full effect to the Commonwealth objective of affording the community adequate financial protection against the cost of hospital treatment. This view was strongly endorsed by the Wedgewood Committee. 
The specific terms of the amendment requested by the Senate were clearly directed to the Queensland situation but the amendment went further and proposed the payment of the Commonwealth $2 a day benefit irrespective of whether the patient was insured and irrespective of whether  a  hospital charge was made. The Government is not prepared to accept an amendment in the wide terms requested by the Senate. However the Government is prepared to sponsor a further amendment to the Bill to provide for the payment of the Commonwealth benefit of $2 a day to hospitals in ali cases in which no charge is made to patients. Under this amended proposal the benefit would be payable in respect of each such patient, irrespective of whether or not the patient is insured, lt is proposed that this benefit will replace, where relevant,, the present Commonwealth benefits paid in respect of such patients. At present these patients are eligible for the Commonwealth $2 a day benefit if insured - and there will be no increased payment for these patients - or the 80c a day benefit if uninsured. The proposal is that in future the patients will not be classified separately in this way but will all attract the Commonwealth hospital benefit of $2 a day for patients where no charge is made. 
The Commonwealth benefit of $5 a day paid to hospitals on behalf of pensioner patients where no charge is made would not be affected under the proposal. The mechanics of the payment of the new benefit will be that it is paid direct to the hospitals concerned in the same manner as the 80c benefit is paid now and not through hospital benefit funds. The proposed arrangement will apply of course in respect of any hospital in any State, for example, an infectious diseases hospital, which follows a practice of treating patients without charge. The procedures of the Parliament do not permit a motion for this amendment being moved in this House and arrangements are being made for a request for an amendment along the lines 1 have mentioned to be moved when the Bill is returned to the Senate. 
I wish to return now to the other requests for amendments and amendments made to the Bill by the Senate. Generally, these are directed to particular questions and do not involve wide ramifications. The objectives of the amendments are beyond question and my one regret is that each is being brought forward in isolation and not as part of a complete review of the legislative provisions contained in the Act with which the Government will be perservering. 
The Government is prepared to accept request for amendment No. 4 relating, to the provisional payment of Commonwealth medical benefit in third party and workers' compensation cases and amendments I, 3, 4 and S relating to the specialist recognition advisory committees, No. 6 relating to the agreement with the Australian Medical Association for the pensioner medical service and No. 9 relating to the furnishing of information by applicant medical and hospital benefits organisations. No. 8, which is connected with request No. 5 dealing with eligibility for hospital benefits, is acceptable in a modified form, as is No. 10 relating to the registration of insurance organisations. In addition, the Government is prepared partially to accept amendments numbered II and 12 dealing respectively with the annual returns of insurance organisations and the pharmaceutical benefits advisory committee. The remaining requests for amendments and amendments are not acceptable to the Government. 
In summary, the Government is prepared to accept 9 of the 19 requests and amendments in the form presented by the Senate or in a modified form, lt will present an alternative proposal for I of them and is prepared partially to accept a further 2. The Government is unable to agree to 7 of the amendments. The decisions of the Government are evidence of its determination to improve the health benefits plan in all its aspects as well as its wish to have this Bill passed speedily and given royal assent so that needless delay does not occur before increased benefits are payable to those in the community who incur expenses on medical treatment. As I emphasised earlier, none of the amendments is directed to the new basic principles of the medical benefits plan and I ask the House to give speedy passage to the Bill. I will be speaking to the detail of various requests for amendments and amendments as they arise in Committee. 
 Mr Chairman,I  move: 
That the requested amendments1,  2, 3,5, 6  and  7  be not made. 
If I might briefly refer to the remark made by the honourable member- 
MrHayden -I rise to order. This is not the amendment to Schedule B which the Minister is talking about. 
I move: 
That the message be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House forthwith. 
I move: i That amendment No. 3 be disagreed to. 
The amendment provides for an appeal against a determination of the Minister under sub-section (5.) of section 21 of the principal Act. The appeal is expressed to be either to the jurisdiction which determined the claim or, if the claim was not determined by a court, to the jurisdiction which would otherwise have heard the claim, in a case where the claim has been determined by a court the appeal would be inoperative because the power of the Minister to make a determination is limited to cases where there has been a settlement of a claim by the parties. In a case where there has been such a settlement, it is not clear to what court the appeal may be taken. The appeal is therefore unsatisfactory. In any case, the nature of the Minister's power is such that the expense and delay of an appeal is not warranted. 
 I move: 
That the amendment No. 10 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following sub-clause be added to clause 25 of the Bill: (2.) Section seventy-three of the. Principal Act is further amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: "(7.) Where the Minister grants an application for registration of an organisation, he shall, within one month after he has so granted the application, publish in the Gazette a notification to that effect setting out - 
the name of the organisation; 
the name of the State or Territory to which the registration relates; 
the date of registration;. 
the fact that the registration is subject to the conditions set out in section seventythree  B  of this Act; and ' 
if the grant is subject to any other terms or conditions - those other terms and conditions. "(8.) Where the Minister refuses an application for registration, of an organisation, he shall, within one month after he has so refused the applica-' tion, publish in the Gazette a notification of the refusal. "(9.) Where the Minister takes action in pursuance of sub-section (6.) of this section in relation to an organisation, he shall, within one month after so taking action, publish in the Gazette a notification, setting out - 
the name of the organisation; 
particulars of the action so taken, including 
where a term or condition has been varied - the term or condition as so varied; 
where a term or condition has been revoked - the term or condition so revoked; or 
where a term or condition has been added - the term or condition so added; and 
the date on which the action was taken.".'. 
This amendment is directed to section 73 of the principal Act which deals with the registration of medical and hospital benefits organisations. It provides, firstly, for the Minister to grant registration subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit or refuse registration after considering a report of the Registration Committee as set out under section 70. Secondly it provides for the Minister to revoke or vary the terms and conditions of registration, and, thirdly, for a register of organisations to be maintained and not be open for inspection except by a person authorised by the Minis ter. The amendment is directed to 3 different aspects of this particular section. Firstly, it provides for registration or refusal of registration to be by regulation and, secondly, for the register of hospital and medical benefits organisations to be open for public inspection, and thirdly, in line with the first point, to provide for variation of the terms and condition of registration to be by regulation. In moving the amendment the other place had in mind that the machinery connected with the registration of organisations should include provision for parliamentary and public scrutiny of the Minister's action. Although it is the Government's view that the registration of organisations should be viewed as a normal administrative process, and therefore legislative processes are not appropriate, the Government has no reason not to make the Minister's actions in regard to the registration of organisations open to public scrutiny. It is felt that the use of regulations as proposed by the other place is inappropriate and in lieu thereof I have moved a further amendment on behalf of the Government proposing that provision be made for notification in the 'Gazette' of (a) the new registration of organisations together with the terms and conditions that the Minister imposes on them; (b) refusals to register organisations; and (c) the variations that are made to the terms and conditions applicable to organisations. I believe that such a provision will meet more appropriately the objectives sought by the Senate amendment. 
I move: 
That amendment No. 11 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following paragraph be inserted after paragraph (g) of sub-section (2.) of the proposed new section 76a: (ga) details of how the reserves of the fund have been invested; and'. 
This amendment would add 2 additional items of information to the 7 already included in the new section 76a, set out in clause 27 of the Bill, which insurance organisations will be required to furnish to the Director-General and which the Director-General will subsequently include in a report to be tabled in the Parliament. The 2 new items of information that the amendment would add to sub-section (2.) are:  (ga) details of how the reserve fund has been invested; 
And:  (gb) details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held by directors of the fund in organisations to which the fund's reserves have been invested; and 
As I said in the House on 14th May it is relevant to keep in mind the various types of organisation that are registered under the National Health Act. Numerically the main group of organisations are those registered under State law as friendly societies. The second important group includes the larger organisations registered under State law as guarantee companies. Other State law exists, such as legislation applicable to co-operative societies, charities and benefit associations, which applies to organisations which are not friendly societies or guarantee companies. It follows that the majority of organisations, and certainly the larger ones, are to a greater or lesser extent subject to dual control under the National Health Act and under appropriate State legislation. 
It is also relevant to point out that provision has been made in the draft section for the Minister to require organisations to submit additional information and for the Director-General to include such additional information in the report. This provides for the flexibility that is so necessary, and means that all the information that subsequently proves to be desirable to have included in the report can be included. Because of this provision it was not necessary to provide for an exhaustive list in the Bill at this point of lime, lt is agreed that the first amendment proposed relating to the investment of reserves would add to the value of the report which will be tabled in the Parliament and for this reason the Government is willing to accept the amendment. However, while if is the Government's intention to exert close supervision of the activities of registered organisations, the second amendment goes further than can reasonably be tolerated in our society. lt is a serious and unwarranted intrusion into the private affairs of the directors of the funds who are public spirited men working, in large part, in a voluntary capacity. They give up a great deal of their time lo these organisations and it would be inequitable to have their affairs published annually in the report of the activities of the organisations. I cannot state too strongly the Government's opposition to and rejection of this amendment. Recently there has been a lot of talk about the possibility of using fund reserves for ancillary benefits. This amendment is partially related to funds reserves. I am reminded that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  when this Bill was before the House on a previous occasion, raised in a very trenchant manner the question of the timetable proposed by the Government for its undertaking in respect to a review of the various services or a review of the possibility of bringing into the national health scheme those services which are paramedical in nature. This matter came' up in particular in respect to refraction tests done by optometrists and the relationship to refraction tests done by ophthalmologists. ) should like to take this opportunity to say ro the honourable member that the Government is sincerely undertaking this review as a matter of urgency. However, there are considerable implications involved not only in relation to whether or not one should bring optometrists into the scheme but to the whole range of paramedical services - and there are quite a number of them. Considerable cost implications are involved and many problems related to cost and which might involve over-servicing. Also, consideration must be given to the means by which it would be most desirable to bring these matters into the national health scheme, should the Government eventually decide to do so. Therefore 1 cannot give any undertaking to the honourable gentleman that this will happen quickly. 1 can say, however, that we are giving a great deal of time to the matter and I shall take the curliest opportunity to put the results of this review before the Government so that it may decide ils attitude to this possible expansion of the national health scheme. 

 Dr CUN (Kingston) [8.I4J-  Mr Chairman,  I oppose the Minister's motion. Should the Committee vote against the proposal I shall follow up by moving that the Senate's amendment be accepted by the Committee. This is a rather sad remnant of the original amendment which 1 moved when this Bill came before the Committee some weeks ago. The original amendment, which concerned inclusions in the report tabled in the Parliament, was: 
In proposed section 76a, subsection (2.) omit paragraph (h). insert the following paragraphs: (hi names of all shareholders in the fund and the equity held by each in thai fund and the names of all directors of that fund; 
details of how the reserve fund has been invested; 
details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings, held by directors of the fund in organisations in which the fund's reserves have been invested: and 
such other information as the Parliament requires to be included. 
The Senate saw fit to delete 2 of those items from the amendment, and the amendment as returned to this Committee contains only the 2 sections dealing with details of how the reserve funds of each insurance organisation have been invested and also whether there is any common directorship between any insurance fund and any fund in which the reserves of the insurance organisation have been invested. 
I shall not go through all the reasons for which this amendment was moved in the first place but, briefly, it followed an investigation I made on my own behalf of an insurance organisation in South Australia. 1 was concerned that the identity of shareholders of that fund was not open to public scrutiny. 1 concede the points the Minister makes about intrusion into a person's private life, about what shareholdings people have got and about what equity they might have. If this were just a matter of an ordinary public company this might be a fair attitude. It might also be a fair attitude if this were voluntary health insurance in the true sense, but it is not. The contributor, that is, the patient, is compelled to contribute to a voluntary health scheme if he is to receive any benefit from the Government. A patient is compelled to belong to a private insurance organisation in order to receive his rebate from the Commonwealth Government - for which he has paid by way of taxation. That is why I feel justified in saying that the contributors to each fund should know exactly who it is who controls their moneys. I was disappointed that the Senate saw 'fit to delete the first sub-clause of the amendment relating to the names of all shareholders in the fund and the equity held by each shareholder in the fund. It would be interesting to know how much equity each shareholder held in the fund for his right to direct where the reserves - the contributors' funds - are going to go. For all we know each might hold only one 20c share in a particular insurance fund yet this would give him the right to control many hundreds of thousands of dollars which accumulate as reserves of the fund. 
 On behalf of the committee I present the reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Reason of the House of Representatives for disagreeing to Amendment No. 3 of the Senate 
The amendment provides for an appeal against a determination of the Minister under sub-section (5.) of section 21 of the principal Act. The appeal is expressed to be either to the jurisdiction which determined the claim or, if the claim was not determined by a court, to the jurisdiction which would have otherwise heard the claim. In a case where the claim has been determined by a court, the appeal would be inoperative because the power of the Minister to make a determination is limited to cases where there has been a settlement of a claim by the parties. In a case where there has been such a settlement, it is not clear to what court the appeal may be taken. The appeal is, therefore, unsatisfactory. In any case, the nature of the Minister's power is such that the expense and delay of an appeal is not warranted. 
Reason of the House of Representatives for disagreeing to Amendment No. 8 of the Senate 
The amendment provides for an appeal against the disallowance by the Minister of a claim by a medical practitioner in respect of services rendered to pensioners under the pensioner medical service. In disallowing a claim the Minister acts in accordance wilh the report of a Committee of Inquiry constituted by medical practitioners. In makingthe report the Committee considers whetherthe number of services given were appro  priate having regard to generally accepted medical standards of treatment. The basis of its investigation is, therefore, medical and not legal.  An  appeal to a court from the determination of the Minister is, therefore, inappropriate. 
Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  agreed to: 
That the committee's reasons be adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The number of doctors participating in the Pensioner Medical Service in 1969-69 was 6,417. 
The average payment to each doctor (per annum) in 1968-69 was $2,665. 
(a) and (b) This information is not available in  my  Department. 
Doctors employed other than in hospitals: 
(a) Number of doctors employed by approved hospitals: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested has been provided by Schedule A - public hospitals, and Schedule B - private hospitals, both Schedules containing the numbers of hospital beds in institutions approved under the National Health Act. 
In respect of Schedule A the following further information is provided. 
In most States, classification of wards in public hospitals into public, intermediate and private is dependent to some degree upon the varying demand for one type of accommodation or another. Only in New South Wales have the State Authorities been able to supply complete details of the number of beds in public hospitals available in each category since 1948. In Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania intermediate and private ward accommodation in public hospitals is considered together, while in South Australia and Western Australia no individual classification is made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Surveys of doctors' fees were conducted by my Department on an Australia-wide basis, to ascertain the most common fees charged for particular services, during the years 1935, 1957, 1959, 1963, 1966, 1967, and 1968. My Department has not itself conducted a survey of fees since 1968. 
Representatives of the larger medical benefit organisations formed a joint working party with the Australian Medical Association in 1968, and in 1969 produced fee data derived from information in claims lodged by contributors with the insurances funds, and from surveys carried out by the Australian Medical Association. Officers of ray Department made an examination of this data in January 1970 in association with representatives of the Australian Medical Association. The fees arrived at as a result of the survey made by the insurance funds and the Australian Medical Association and the subsequent examinations of the data were the fees notified to my Department by the Australian Medical Association in January, 1970, as the fees most commonly charged. These are the fees on which the medical benefits included in the National Health Bill 1970 are based. 
(a and b) - The most common fees charged for general practitioner consultations, as indicated by the surveys carried out by my Department, were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The question of the accreditation of hospitals is primarily a matter for consideration by the respective State Governments. Officers of my Department have from time to time participated in seminars and other forms of discussion on the general question, but no firm proposals on the subject have been advanced by State Governments or by the medical profession. 
Detailed information is not available on the principles country medical associations and insurance companies apply to differential payments in the United States. From such information as is available, it appears that differential payments are made both under the Federal 'Medicare' programme and by private insurers in that country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1st January 1952. 
$1.20 per day. 
The weekly family contribution rates have 1st January 1952 for maximum insurance by the major funds were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 July 1953. 
The weekly family contribution rates as at 1 July 1953 for the major funds operating in each State were - 
The answer to the honourable, member's question' is as follows: 
and (2) The information contained in this reply has been obtained, where appropriate, from the relevant State Government authorities. It is based on the number of persons commencing and completing general certificate trailing, since this is the only area in which a comparable basis for calculation can be obtained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Commonwealth health requirements in respect of imported cheese have been suspended because of further recommendations on this subject which were made by the National Health and Medical Research Council. These are currently under consideration by the Food Standards Committee of the Council for inclusion in the relevant recommended standards. Until new standards have been determined and approved by the States the legal position is that all cheese sold in the States must, in accordance, with States' legislation, be made from pasteurised milk. 
Yes. Cheese for export is required to be made from pasteurised milk under the Exports (Dairy Produce) Regulations under the Customs -Act 1901-1963 and the Commerce Trade: Descriptions Act 1905-1950. 
As indicated in (1) present State legislation requires that all cheese sold be made from pasteurised milk. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Foot and mouth disease is endemic in Europe and all countries of Continental Europe are subject to foot and mouth disease, although the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, Norway, Sweden and Finland have remained free of the disease for some years, and England has remained free since 1967-68. Hence Australia, for animal quarantine purposes, regards the whole  of  Europe as a foot and mouth disease area, recognising that certain countries while free  of  foot and mouth disease at a particular time are, by reason of their geographical and commercial situation, vulnerable to introduction  of  the disease. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures relating to the expenditures of public hospitals are only available for the years 1963-64 to 1967-68. Figures for earlier years relate to the combined expenditures of public hospitals and nursing homes. It is estimated that over the period 1963-64 to 1967-68, recurrent expenditures of public hospitals (including outpatient's expenditure) per patient bed day increased from $15.21 to $20.75, an increase of 36.4% 
The consumer price index for the six capital cities increased from 100 to 114.1 between 1963-64 and 1967-68. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Salary ranges (actual) for Pharmacists and Pharmacists (Inspection) employed by the Department of Health, for each year since 1958, are set out hereunder. The ranges are those effective as at 1st January for the year shown and are the rates for male pharmacists. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
These matters are currently under consideration by the Government. The honourable member may be interested to know that a subcommittee of Ihe "National Health and Medical Research Council has been established, at the request of the Australian Health Ministers' Conference, to consider standard analytical methods for determining the 'tar' and nicotine content of tobacco smoke. ' The sub-committee's report will be presented to the Ministers for study. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not made any proposal to give dental therapists total patient responsibility in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In October1965 the National Health and Medical Research Council adopted a report from the Public Health Advisory Committee prepared by the Dental Auxiliary Personnel Sub-Committee of the Dental Health Committee. Council endorsed certain principles which it believed would, by an extension of the use of dental auxiliary personnel offer a more adequate dental service. These principles included; that auxiliary dental personnel are complimentary to and not a substitute for the qualified dentist; that auxiliary personnel must serve as an integral part of a dental health team with appropriate status and conditions and in view of the limited knowledge and scope of the individual dental auxiliaries the direction and control of their services should be vested in a registered dentist. 
The Council also made special recommendations relating to school dental nurses in that it considered any instrumentality responsible for a comprehensive and systematic programme for dental care of Australian school children should give consideration to the utilisation of auxiliary personnel in the form of school dental nurses. The employment of these auxiliaries should be in accordance with the principles endorsed by Council. 
Yes. The Council advised that the legislation introduced in the Australian Capital Territory does not conflict with its recommendation. 
The  Chairman  of Council bad this matter referred to the Public Health Advisory Committee, which meets before Council. The  Chairman  of the Dental Health Committee, a dentist, who was also the  Chairman  of the Dental Auxiliary Personnel Sub-Committee, attended the Public Health Advisory Committee during the discussion. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not referred the matter back to the Dental Health Committee as there would not have been time to convene a meeting before Council met. The matter was discussed with the  Chairman  of the Dental Health Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The findings of the study were that: 
the Hospital Board be encouraged to develop their rehabilitation services and; 
that the domiciliary care programme be developed through the existing district nursing service. 
The report on the findings took the form of an intradepartmental paper which after examination within the Department was submitted to the Minister for his consideration. 
The findings contained in the paper were accepted by the Minister who conveyed these by letter to the  Chairman  of the Canberra Community Hospital Board. The Minister's letter was reported on fully in the Canberra Times of 20th March 1963. 
The answer to the. honourable member's question is as. follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The measures based on Nimmo Committee recommendations which I indicated in my statement on 4th March 1970, would be undertaken or considered, and which were not encompassed by the National Health Bill 1970 as introduced into Parliament or by administrative arrangements associated with that Bill, are - 
The decision to establish a National Health Insurance Commission (based on .Nimmo Committee recommendation- 1) - As indicated in my statement, it is necessary for the Government to give detailed consideration to the composition and functions of the proposed Commission. 
Proposals directed towards the establishment of a closer relationship between hospital fees and hospital benefits (based on Nimmo Committee recommendations 3, 4, 5, 6, 8,. 9, 11 and 17)- As indicated in my statement, these proposals have farreaching implications and will involve prolonged negotiations with the States. These negotiations have commenced and will be pursued without delay. 
The decision that 3 hospital benefit tables related to standard, intermediate and private ward charges be operated in each State (based on Nimmo Committee recommendation 7) - As indicated in my statement, this- will be implemented as an administrative measure over an appropriate phasing-in period. It is to some extent related to the proposals referred to in (b) above. 
The proposal that hospital benefits should not be paid in excess of the amount of hospital accounts (as referred to in Nimmo Committee recommendation 12) - As indicated in my statement, the Government will give further consideration to this matter in the light of other relevant factors such as the proposal for an all-inclusive hospital fees system, as proposed by Nimmo Committee recommendation 5 (see (b) above). 
The proposal for periodic adjustments of established common fees for medical services (as referred to- in Nimmo Committee recommendation  18) - This important matter is under discussion between the Government and the Australian Medical Association. 
The proposal to provide for disciplinary action to be taken in relation to any abuses of the health insurance system (as referred to in Nimmo Committee recommendation 19) - As indicated in my statement, the Government is examining appropriate methods of implementing such action. 
The provision of facilities for the deduction of health insurance contributions from employees' wages or salary (based on Nimmo Committee recommendations 27 and 28) - The details of implementation of this proposal are under consideration by the Government. 
The proposal for a new system to replace the present Special Account system (based on Nimmo Committee recommendation 25) - As indicated in my statement, this matter will be examined in depth with a view to the development of less complex arrangements. 
The proposal to provide for penalties to be imposed on the officers of health insurance funds for serious neglect of their responsibilities (as referred to in Nimmo Committee recommendation 37) - As indicated in my statement, this proposal is under consideration by the Government. 
The proposal for the Commonwealth and the States to jointly investigate all problems associated with nursing homes (as referred to in Nimmo Committee recommendation  40) - This matter is under active consideration. 
The scope and complexity of these recommendations are such that they require examination in depth and, in some cases, extensive negotiations with the States. For these reasons, it is impracticable to forecast when they will be brought to finality. 
It is also impracticable to provide financial estimates in relation to these matters, because they have not yet been finalised. This applies particularly to proposals involving negotiations with the States, since many of these proposals are interrelated and the final results of the negotiations obviously cannot be forecast. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available. It is believed, however, that the Laboratories share of the market is approximately 2% at the present time. ' 
I would emphasise that there is no percentage limitation imposed on the output of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in relation to that of other pharmaceutical companies. The share of the market referred to above is that attained by the Laboratories in competition with other firms. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of total recurrent health expenditure in Australia have been made by my Department only in respect of the years 1960-61, 1963- 64 and 1966-67. The amounts provided from (a) private (b) public, and (c) total sources in those years were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, for the initial supply. Thereafter the applicant doctor is required to complete part 3 of the form only, i.e. 10 questions. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee currently has this matter under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures relating to the expenditures of public hospitals are only available for the years 1963-64 to 1967-68. Earlier figures relate to the combined expenditures of both public hospitals and 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This matter has been under consideration by my Department in consultation with the Commission and Treasury. It is currently under consideration by the Government. 
It has always been recognised by the Government that the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have an important role to perform in the field of research associated with public health. The Laboratories make a significant contribution in this area. In my view, it is not unreasonable that such activity by the Laboratories be a first charge against profits earned by the Commission from its commercial operations. However, as indicated in the reply to (2) above, this matter is under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament 
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission: Return on Capital  (Question No. 1180) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department. They are currently under consideration by the Government 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Membei relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department. They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department. They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's questiin is as follows: 
The question by the Honourable Member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department. They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question by the honourable member relates to matters raised in the 104th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or are associated with that Report. 
The contents of this particular Report of the Committee have been considered by the Treasury, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission and my Department. They are currently under consideration by the Government. 
When this has been completed, the views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance with the agreed arrangements. These will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In New South Wales and Queensland, the relevant authorities were unable to provide the information sought by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Therapeutic Goods Act 1966 has not been proclaimed because' the Regulations to be made under that Act and which will be necessary before the Act can be implemented have not been finalised. 
The first proof of the Regulations has been received from the Parliamentary Draftsman and some small amendments have been necessary. These amendments have been conveyed to the Parliamentary Draftsman and it is anticipated that the Regulations will be tabled during the next Session of Parliament 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Canberra Hospital provides outpatient treatment without charge to a person, or dependant of a person who is normally resident in the Australian Capital Territory and who satisfies the Board that the balance of the person's gross income remaining after allowable deductions have been made is equal to or less than the wage as prescribed for a 'Labourer not otherwise classified' as employed under the Miscellaneous Workers (ACT) Award 1968. 
Allowable deductions are: 
Dependant allowance - the amount(s) specified in sub-section (2) of section 82b of the Income Tax Assessment. Act 1936-1969, as set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Although the forms P.B. 10A were not specifically designed for research purposes, it is recognised that the information provided as a result of their use may prove to be of value to researchers. 
The design of this form and its contents are considered to provide the minimum information necessary to assess whether the patient qualifies to receive Intal as a benefit In this respect advice received from specialists in asthma was considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The management expense limits in force in I960 and the years immediately following were determined in accordance with (he following formulae: 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3)- The honourable member will be pleased to know that the maximum amount of a loan that may be made by a credit union in New South Wales has recently been raised to $5,000. He will already be aware that, as the result of a Government-sponsored amendment during the passage through the Parliament of the legislation to which he has referred, the minimum amount of a loan by a credit union that may qualify as a prescribed housing loan' is $5,000, not $7,000 as originally proposed. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only official statistics available on lending by fringe banking institutions for land or home construction and purchase are those for finance company lending over the last 5 financial years. The data given below are the total value of all loans (for any business or private purposes) which are secured over houses, home units and residential land. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer lo the honourable member's question: 
Total stock of dwelling unit* in each State. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and  (2)  The information which follows was provided by the State housing authorities to my Department, which sought their assistance in furnishing details for the Honourable Member - 
New South Wales - The following table shows the waiting times for rental accommodation in two, three and four bedroom cottages from  1961  to 
1970. 
Since its inception the Government Housing Scheme in New South Wales has been designed primarily to cater for the needs of those people in the low and middle income brackets who, because of various factors, experience difficulty in solving their own housing problem. In more recent years greater emphasis has been placed on determining whether or not an applicant can reasonably be expected to provide bis own accommodation from within the private sector of the housing industry. Arbitrary standards based on family income, which may automatically exclude persons who do not meet those standards, have not been laid down. 
Responsibility for determining eligibility rests with independent Housing Applications Committees established in all centres in which the Housing Commission has undertaken construction of homes. In assessing the applicant's ability to satisfy his own housing need a Committee has regard to the availability and price level of accommodation, for both rental and purchase, in the private sector and relates this information to the family income, assets and liabilities of members of the family and any outer special factors considered relevant. 
If it is decided that an applicant should be able to satisfy his housing need privately, his application is not admitted to the waiting list and the position is explained to him. Otherwise, his name is admitted to the list for allocation of accom modation in due course when his turn is reached. All decisions of the Committees are made on the understanding that if there is any significant change in an applicant's circumstances, the decision will be carefully reconsidered. In addition, policy provides that the benefit of any reasonable doubt as to eligibility must be extended in the applicant's favour. 
Victoria - Due to the Slum Reclamation programme in the Melbourne metropolitan area the trend has been towards providing flat accommodation for rental and making houses available for purchase on low depotit Large families of five or more children receive priority for houses vacated and are allocated these homes on a tenancy basis; currently a wait of between  18  months and two years is usual. For tenancy of a two bedroom flat the waiting time is currently about six months and for a three bedroom flat between  12  and  15  months. 
In country centres, as far as practicable homes are made available on the basis of  50%  for sale and  50%  for rental. The waiting time in the country varies from almost immediate bousing to quite lengthy delays, due to factors such as employment opportunities, availability of private homes and migration intake, 
A means test is imposed to determine eligibility for rental accommodation or for purchase of a Housing Commission home. The means test 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Any proposal to extend the War Service Homes Act to extend the benefits to British ex-servicemen who took their discharge hi Australia involves a question of future Government policy and it is not the practice to provide an answer to a question of this nature. 
Marine Surveyors  (Question 1209) 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable gentleman knows a substantial part of the information required to provide the answer is obtained from the States. I have arranged to seek it from them andI shall do all that I can to meet his request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From an examination of available material it could be estimated that Aboriginal or part Aboriginal persons probably account for around 2.5% of the population in Western Australia. The percentage of full blood Aborigines may well be much lower, possibly less than half this figure. There is no really reliable way of determining mortality rates in Western Australia for the Aboriginal section of the community since the basic data are absent. As the results of investigations performed on small groups of people, figures reported from an analysis in Western Australia of deaths in the 2 year period 1967 and 1968 indicate that over 20% of infant deaths are contributed by persons identified as Aboriginal or part Aboriginal. 
With the same sort of analysis it appears that it would be true to state that the death rate of Aboriginal infants between 1 and 12 months of age is over 20times that of the remainder of the population in that area. 
The causes of the high mortality figures in respect of Aboriginal infants and children arc largely the result of infections such as those producing gastroenteritis, pneumonia or occasionally meningitis. Prematurity and dehydration are additional causes. Other problems exist, but the extant to which they contribute to the mortality rate are difficult to define. Some of these factors are: nutritional deficiencies, insanitary living conditions, overcrowding due to frequent pregnancies and the congregation of many members of a family into 1 residence. 
In addition to the efforts being made bythe State Governments including that of Western Australia, the Commonwealth Government is endeavouring to provide assistance by making additional finance available from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account which was created for this purpose in 1968. 
My Department and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs have made special efforts to assist the States in determining the most effective ways to improve the health of this section of our community and recently in an effort to determine the major factors responsible for the production of subnormal health, particularly in Aboriginal children, and ways to correct them, convened a meeting or Workshop' at which representatives from the States and Territories and experts in fields of anthropology, nutrition, paediatrics, nursing, welfare, administration, public health and medical research were present in Sydney in December 1969. As a result of the 'Workshop' specific recommendations for further research and specific action to correct underlying deficiencies were made. Work has already commenced on some of these proposals and is in addition to the work already being carried out by the State andCommonwealth Governments in the areas for whichthey are directly responsible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From an examination of available data it can be estimated that in the Northern Division of the Northern Territory for1968 the Aboriginal infant mortality was 75.0 per 1,000 live births, and the mortality rate in the 1-2 years age groups 32.8 per 1,000 children in this age group. In the other age groups the number of deaths, amounting to 2 or 3 only, are so small as to make calculation unrealistic. There were 3 deaths of children aged 2-3 years, one in the 3-4 years group, none aged 4-5 years and 2 between the age of 5 and 8 years. 
In the Southern Division of the Northern Territory the infant mortality rates for recent years have been somewhat higher than in the Northern Division, being probably between 90 and 100 per 1,000 live births. 
Whilst it is not possible to give Aboriginal mortality rates for Queensland and Western Australia in the same detail it has been estimated that infant mortality calculated in respect of 10 Settlements in Queensland for the 5 year period 1962-66 was around 112 per 1,000 live births. 
From a survey carried out in 1967-68 in Western Australia, it is estimated that some 20% of infant deaths may be attributed to the Aboriginal population. 
The causes of death vary according to the particular age group and geographical area hut in general, prematurity, gastro-enlerilis. chest infections, malnutrition and dehydration, infections such as those causing meningitis and deaths by accident all play a significant part. The major role played by infections in causing death in Aboriginal infants between the age of 1 month and1 year in Western Australia was highlighted by figures indicating that around 92% of deaths in this age group were associated with infections of one sort or another. 
In Queensland for the years 1962-66 gastroenteritis, pneumonia, and prematurity were responsible for the majority of infant deaths whilst pneumonia and gastro-enteritis and meningitis caused a significant number in the1 to 16 age group. 
An analysis in the Northern Division of the Northern Territory for 1968 showed that prematurity and contributing factors were responsible for a large proportion of deaths in early infancy, while gastro-enteritis, pneumonia, malnutrition and dehydration accounted for the majority of deaths during the remainder of the first 2 years of life. Drowning was the cause of 2 of the 4 deaths in the 2-4 age group. 
In some areas malnutrition is almost certainly of greater significance than would at first sight appear due to its underlying effect in enhancing the development of terminal infections. 
The mortality rales for the population as a whole for the year 1968 showed an infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births of 19.83 for males and 15.61 for females. The mortality rate for the age groups under consideration when related to the estimated mid-year population for persons of the age specific group were 1-2 years - 1.44 for males and 1.41 for females. 2-3 year group  -  1.04 for males and 0.87 for females. 3-4 years  -  0.72 for males and 0.65 for females, 4-5 years  -  0.61 for males and 0.55 for females. 5-8 years  -  0.47 for males and 0.38 for females per 1,000 of population at risk. 
Comparing these rates for the whole population with the Aboriginal mortality rates shown in the reply to part (1) of this question, it may be seen that the mortality rate amongst infant Aboriginal children is much higher than for other children in Australia. 
The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth is in close touch with the State on this and a number of other associated land issues. 
My Department is working closely with other Commonwealth Departments which have responsibilities in such matters. 
The answer  to  the honour able member's question is  as  follows: 
and (2) Figures for a full year for individual professional services covered by the National Health Act are recorded only for general practitioner consultations (item 1 of the Schedule). Estimates based on the results of the Department's last survey of fees and incidence of services conducted in 1968 (on the basis of contributor's claims paid by medical benefit organisations for part of that year) are shown in the following table. The twenty most common professional services in each State have been shown to provide correspondence with part (3) of the Question and the answer given. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As statistics of the total of loans made and spent on housing are unavailable, it is impracticable to indicate the proportion of the total made by each category of lender. The most comprehensive statistical information available is in the form of housing loans approved by lenders during a period. Loans approved for both new and existing dwellings during each of the last 10 years by the major lenders are as follows: 
 The  answer  to the honour able member's  question is  as follows: 
Under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act the Commonwealth subsidises approved organisations which employ registered nurses. Details of the number of registered nurses employed by organisations in the States participating in the scheme are given below. There are no participating organisations in the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory, as the Home Nursing Services in those Territories are a part of the Commonwealth Department of Health Activities. 
Where details of part time nurses employed are known these have been included in terms of their full time equivalents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A Dumber of requests have been made over past years to extend the scope of the Pensioner Medical Service to include dental treatment. 
The Pensioner Medical Service was introduced to provide medical services of  a  general practitioner nature such as that normally provided by a doctor in his surgery or in the patient's home including treatment at his home after an operation. 
Careful consideration has been given from time to time to extending the scope of the Service to include allied health services such as those rendered by dental practitioners but it has been decided not to extend its scope. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have recently asked the Nursing Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council to make any recommendations on nursing in Australia which it feels may be appropriate. As well 1 recently released the report prepared for me by  a  special A.C.T. Committee on nursing education. This report contained recommendations on the commencement of general nursing and post-graduate courses at the School of Advanced Education in Canberra, the establishment of an A.C.T. Nursing Education Authority and  a  School of Nursing. 
The problem of maintaining nursing staffs and of providing working environments which adequately reward nurses is one which is related to the whole question of hospital and health services. Health services are constitutionally the firm and primary responsibility of the States. However, financial problems affecting the recruitment and maintenance of nursing staff could be matters tor consideration in the context of CommonwealthState discussions presently taking place on those aspects of the Nimmo Committee Report which have a bearing on the provision of hospital services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Departmental records show that in the past 10 years, the only requests for financial assistance to Queanbeyan Hospital was made on 29th August 1969, by  Mr S.  G. Mauger, M.L.A. for Monaro. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not maintain statistics relative to the overall pharmaceutical industry in Australia and I am therefore unable to provide an answer on this basis. 
However I am able to supply the information requested in so far as it relates to the provision of pharmaceutical benefits through approved pharmacies, private hospitals and medical practitioners. 
On 1st April 1970, 153 companies were listed as manufacturers of pharmaceutical benefits. 
The percentage share of the amount received by manufacturers for sales of pharmaceutical benefits (ready prepared items) was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In August 1968, the Australian Dental Association submitted identical proposals to the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo Committee) and to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital costs. A copy of these proposals were forwarded to me by the Association. 
The submission of the Australian Dental Association embodied a number of proposals as follows: 
That (he Commonwealth Government should establish a Division of Public Dental Health within its Department of Health with the following main functions: 
The investigation of the incidence and precedence of dental diseases and demand for dental services. 
The co-ordination of present pro grammes of dental health education and promotion of additional ones. 
That in view of the crisis envisaged in the supply of trained dentists to provide a denial service to the Australian community the Commonwealth Government should, through the Australian Universities Coinmission, give high priority to forward planning for dental education. 
That because of the magnitude of the dental health problem Government School Dental Services should concentrate upon the treatment and maintenance of pre-school and school children on an incremental age basis with particular priority to the 'dentally indigent'. 
That a Voluntary Dental Insurance Scheme Subsidised by the Commonwealth Government be introduced to cover the dental treatment requirements of children and that such a scheme -be introduced in anincremental age basis commencing with children 2 years of age. 
That patients of dental practitioners should be entitled to claim for medical benefits in respect of work carried out by registered dentists in accordance with the provision of the following items of the Medical Benefits Schedule. 
2050. 2053, 2086, 2303, 2900, 2903, 2906, 2909. 2912, 3060, 3066, 3076, 3130, 3133, 3136, 3139, 3176. 3179, 3215, 3243, 3249, 3265, 3268, 3916, 3953, 4199, 4202, 4214, 4217, 6300, 6303, 6545, 6548, 6551, 6554, 6557, 6560, 7153. 8385, 8388. 8391, 8394, 8397, 8410, 8413. 
That patients who are referred to medical specialists by dental practitioners should be entitled to the same Comonwealth benefit as applies when a patient is referred by a medical practitioner and that the Medical Benefits Schedule should be amended accordingly. 
That the Pharmaceuticals Benefits Scheme be amended to allow patients a benefit when obtaining drugs prescribed by a dentist in accordance with his rights under the appropriate State legislation. 
Consideration of proposals (a), (b) and (c) has not progressed to the extent that any costing has been undertaken and therefor no cost estimates are available. 
Proposal (d) was costed by the Australian Dental Association in its 1968 Submission based on the following assumptions - 
That such a Scheme be introduced progressively over 11 years commencing in 1969 with 2 year old children and in each successive year, introducing 2 year old children into the Scheme. 
The children introduced into the Scheme each year continue to be treated throughout the 11 years required for its full implementation, 
The proportion of total population participating in such a voluntary insurance scheme would be identical to that recorded during the first 11 years' operation of the existing Medical Benefits Scheme from 1953. namely - year 1-16%; year 2 - 39%; year3 - 45%; year 4 - 51%; year 5-60%; year 6 - 63%; year 7 - 67%; years 8-10 68%; year 11-71%. 
The Commonwealth Benefit to represent 50% of the estimated cost of treatment, based on the scale of fees approved for dental services by the Commonwealth Repatriation Department in force as from 1st August 1967, the remaining 50% to be borne equally by registered Benefit Organisations and the patient. 
The scale of treatment for alt participating children be uniform in each age group but decreasing between each successively older age group up to the proposed 12 year old group. 
There will be no change either in economic conditions or in dental fees in Australia during the 11 years required to implement the entire Scheme. 
Net growth in the population of 2 year old children between 196.1 and 1966 census figures of 0.70% per annum (including net migration) will continue uniformly throughout the 11 years for full implementation of the Scheme. 
A net reduction in dental caries of 50% will occur in regions where the communal water supply is fluoridated compared with the level of dental caries in nonfluoridated areas. 
As from 1st January 1970, the Repatriation Department approved a revised scale of dental fees for treatment of Repatriation beneficiaries. Assuming the same basis of costing as that used by the Australian. Dental. Association in its 1968 Submission my Department has estimated the cost of the proposal to the Commonwealth in the light of higher dental fees approved by the Repatriation Department as follows - 
The Minister for Housing bas supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 392, (b) 185, (c) 91. 
and (3) This information is not readily available and could be obtained only by detailed examination of departmental files and registers. However, a special review has been made of applications to purchase new homes lodged during the period 1st July to 30th September 1969 and particulars of settlement times in relation to these applications are set out hereunder: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of medical practitioners who were salaried employees are not available for the years 1949 and 1959. The only relevant figures available are those collected in the censuses conducted in 1947, 1961 and 1966. These figures are shown in table 1. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows mortality rates for males and females between the ages of 30 years and 60 years by 5 year age groupings. Rates by single years are not available for Sweden. The 
Hospitals  (Question No, 13S3) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that the maintenance costs (including out-patients' costs) per approved public hospital bed (i.e., approved for payment of Commonwealth hospital benefits) in each of the States and Territories for the year 1967-68, the latest year for which figures are available, were: 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The question cannot be answered simply as there are many variable factors which influence the cost of a new public hospital. Estimates of cost can only be made after careful examination of respective features and components, and isolation of common and differing elements. Any estimate of costs per bed would therefore have to be made with a defined type of project in mind. For example, costs, excluding land, for a sophisticated 'acute' public hospital could rise to $36,000 per bed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United Nations Demographic Year Book ' 1968 shows the infant mortality rates in 1967. the latest available figures, for countries with rates lower than Australia's as being - 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
4th March 1969. 
The text of resolutions of the State Housing Ministers* Conference which include requests to the Commonwealth, and summaries of- the Commonwealth responses to these requests are as follows: 
Resolution (i) - Low Rental Housing for Aged Persons 
Having regard to the need for low rental accommodation for Aged Persons this Conference of Ministers of Housing from all States resolves that the Commonwealth be requested to provide grants to State Housing Authorities similar to those under the Aged Persons Homes Act and that if the Commonwealth is not prepared to subsidise Housing Agreement funds in this manner that it do so in cases where the Housing Authority provides finance from other sources; but that the States accept that in any year the Commonwealth might place a ceiling on the amount available from it for subsidy.' 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Particulars of the land acquired and estate development undertaken under the provisions of the War Service Homes Act since 1st July 1950 and other information requested by the honourable member  are  set out in the following table showing the position as at 30th June 1970. In considering the information provided the following points should be kept in mind. The table includesa number of estates acquired before 1st July 1950 where development was commenced prior to that date and continued after that date. It also includes a number of estates acquired before 1st July 1950 where development was not commenced until after that date. 
In accordance with the provisions of the War Service Homes Act land acquired and developed for the purpose of the Act is sold to eligible persons at the capital cost of the land, including interest at the prescribed rate. Profit is derived only from sales on the open market and sales to State Housing Authorities and other Government authorities of land not required for the purposes of the Act. 
All land is acquired in pursuance of power vested in the Director of War Service Homes under Section 16 of the War Service Homes Act. These powers include acquisition of land by compulsory process but except where otherwise indicatedall land referred to in the table was acquired by negotiation and agreement with the registered proprietor of the land. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in the nature of bed subsidy are made by the Commonwealth indirectly under the Hospital Benefits Scheme at the rate of $2 a day to insured patients. Direct payments to hospitals are the 80 cents a day paid for uninsured patients and $5 a day for pensioners and their dependants with Pensioner Medical Service entitlements receiving public ward treatment. 
Figures showing the total amounts of these benefits paid in respect of public hospital treatment in each State are available for the5 year period 1963-64 to 1967-68, and are shown below. Figures for 1968-69 are not available. 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Comprehensive statistics required for the preparation of a reply to these questions are not available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subsidies paid in 1968-69 financial year under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act to eligible organisations which received State assistance: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)~ Yes. The study is being carried out on behalf  of  the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of Health jointly. 
Llewelyn-Davies, Weeks, Forrestier-Walker and Bor. 
The consultants' proposal for the study, which was accepted by the Commission and the Department, provided for the submission of a report, consisting of five parts each representing a particular aspect of the provision of health facilities in the A.C.T., namely 
the machinery for delivering health care to the population of the A.C.T.; (b) the special services which are required to back up these health facilities, and to maintain them; 
a detailed description of the locational and land use requirements of each of these types of facilities; 
the staging and phasing of health facility provision to meet the needs of the extremely rapid growth which is occurring throughout the A.C.T.; 
the need for a comprehensive health and welfare service for the ACT. 
No. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There is a recurrent cost However, through the Colostomy and Ileostomy Associations in the various States, arrangements are made for patients to obtain discounts for the purchase of appliances. 
Any move to extend the scope of the National Health Act to include colostomy and ileostomy appliances must be considered in relation to the fact that there are other aids, such as trusses, spectacles, artificial eyes and limbs, for which no Commonwealth Assistance is available. The question of providing items of this nature has been considered on a number of occasions. As yet, however, it has not been found possible to provide such aids under the National Health Act. 
I would point out, however, that the Commonwealth has made special arrangements with tha various Ileostomy and Colostomy Associations for the supply of certain drugs and medicinal preparations as pharmaceutical benefits to colostomy and ileostomy patients. 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question provided from information made available by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies in New South Wales: 
Some financial institutions have increased their lending rates on loans advanced to terminating building societies. The majority of societies faced with the increased interest rates will pass the increase on to their members. It is not possible to specify the number of societies which will be involved in the increased interest changes. 
It is not possible to provide details of increase in interest rates paid by individual societies or by members of societies, but the following statistics indicate the rise in interest rates charged to societies by some lending institutions. 
Commonwealth Trading Bank -  5%  to 6% per annum. 
Commonwealth Savings Bank - 5% to 6% per annum. 
Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement Allocations - 5% per annum. 
Private savings banks and insurance company - 6% per annum. 
Yes - but an existing society financed with Housing Agreement Funds which has drawn some but not all of its total allocation will pay a rate between 5% and 5% per annum on an averaged basis. This increased rate will also be passed to members. The rate will remain at 5% per annum for societies which fully drew their allocation prior to 1st April 1970. 
It is not possible to accurately assess this figure. 
In nearly all cases the Interest increases will be recovered by increasing borrowing members' monthly loan repayments. It is not possible to indicate the average increase. 
At the option of the directors of terminating building societies in New South Wales the period of repayment can be extended not beyond 3 1 years. It is not possible to state any average increase in total loan repayments. 
 The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Parts (1) and (2): The details cannot be concisely summarised to show an unambiguous answer but the information is available in 'Housing Finance: Lending Terms and Conditions' which is published each 6 months by the Department of Housing. Copies of this publication are available from the Department of Housing and are in the Parliamentary Library. 
interest Rates on Housing Loans in July 1950 
From information available it would appear that institutions which were lending at that time for new and existing dwellings did not differentiate in the rate of interest charged. The Commonwealth Savings Bank did not introduce housing loans for existing dwellings until 1956. 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question from information made available by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies in New South Wales: 
Some permanent building Societies in New South Wales have recently announced increases in interest rates charged to borrowers. 
It is not possible to provide details of increases in interest rates charged by individual societies; but it is believed that generally the rise in interest rates is of the order of 0.5 per cent per annum. 
This is a matter for individual societies. However, where societies lend on a long term basis, and from funds subject to varying rates of return to investors, it is necessary for changes in interest rates to apply to both new and existing borrowers. 
It is not possible to accurately assess this figure. 
This is a matter for the boards of individual societies to decide. No assessment can be made of the average increase in monthly housing loan repayments. 
It is not possible to supply this information. 
If the rate of interest on a loan of $12,000 over 25 years is increased by 0.5 per cent per annum, the additional amount payable per month will vary according to the interest rate charged before the increase and the basis on which interest is charged, i.e. yearly rests, quarterly rests, etc. No exact figure can therefore be given, but on the most common rates charged before the application of any increase, the additional repayment would be in the vicinity of $4 per month, provided of course the former interest rest period was not altered in any way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer to you on 4th June I stated that: 
the Government had rejected the States' proposal and its decision had been conveyed to the State Health Ministers at their Conference in March 1970; and 
the Government rejected the application by the States on the long standing policy ground of the Government that responsibility for mental health was a State responsibility. 
The question of what is to be done after the expiry of the Act is a separate issue from the Commonwealth's rejection of the States' proposals, and is, as I indicated in my answer of 4th June 1970, a matter for decision by the Commonwealth Government 
I am unable to provide any information beyond that supplied in answer to your question of the 7th April 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only State for which my  Department  has figures is New South Wales, where the latest year for which estimates are available is 1967-68. In that year, if the Commonwealth had paid hospital benefits to the New South Wales Government in respect of short-stay patients (under 3 months), the number of patients for whom payments would have been made was 13,340. 
1967, 1968, 1969. 
In New South Wales, for 1967-68 the cost would have been $955,283. Figures for other States are not available. 
As the honourable member is aware, the extension of the States Grams (Mental Health Institutions) Act for a further 3 years was announced by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech on 18th August 1970. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the borrowing of moneys not exceeding $142,550,000 to be advanced to the States during 1970-71 for housing in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. At its meeting last June, the Australian Loan Council approved a government borrowing programme for 1970-71, of which 823,000,000 was for the financing of State works and housing. Within this total, each State nominated the amount it wished to receive as advances under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. In aggregate, housing advances in 1970-71 will amount to $142,530,000, which is an increase of $10,320,000 or about 8% over last year. The amounts requested by the States are as follows: 

<graphic href="069131197008204_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

Advances made to the States under the agreement are repayable over a period of 53 years and bear interest at 1% per annum below the long term bond rate. This is the concluding year of the period covered by the present housing agreement. During this 5-year period, the Commonwealth will have advanced almost $644m to the States for housing purposes. Of this amount, it is expected that almost $42 6m will have been used by State housing authorities, together with supplementary advances from the Commonwealth for the housing of servicemen, to construct some 54,400 dwellings. The remaining $2 18m will have been advanced through the home builders accounts and, together with moneys accruing from earlier advances, will have assisted some 39,600 persons to acquire their own homes. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has adopted his usual practice of using this House as a public relations platform, with scant regard for the House itself. He has come in here today with a prepared statement which 1 have not seen. I have no doubt that the Press has a copy of it. So that he could get through it in the time allotted to him the Leader of the Opposition gabbled it out in such a way that it would be quite impossible for honourable members to take in any detail what he was trying to say. I just want to place that on record, lt seems to me to be an abuse of the ethos of this chamber. 
I want to make 2 comments on what the Leader of the Opposition had to say. Because he read his prepared statement at such a rate 1 am not completely sure whether I am drawing the right conclusion. Perhaps I am slow.  His  criticisms of the Government in relation to action taken recently and on a number of occasions in the past which involved some slowing down in the rate of new dwelling construction appeared to imply that a Labor government would put no limit on the proportion  of. our  total resources going into the housing industry. He implied that it was not the function or the responsible role of a government to make an assessment as to whether at any particular time too great a proportion of resources is going into this industry, or that there is an obligation on the Government to take action to correct an imbalance. We have it on the record that the policy of a Labor government would be full steam ahead in relation to housing, whatever the situation, whatever the strain on resources, however much of those resources would go into housing and whatever effect it would have on the price levels in the economy. 
The honourable gentleman's speech from beginning to end was one criticism of the Government's activities in housing. It was an attempt to suggest that the housing policies of the present Government have been a dismal failure over the last 20 years. Anybody who listened to the honourable gentleman could be forgiven for thinking that the Government had sadly failed in this field. In the period that this Government has been in office we have produced the situation in which a higher proportion of home ownership has been achieved in this country than in almost any other country in the world and perhaps more than in any other country. This is what the Government's policies have achieved, ft has been made possible for a greater proportion of our population to own their own homes than in any other country. What a failure! lt is a failure by the standards of the Opposition. It still harks back to the little capitalists of the Dedman. 
The Government regards the degree of home ownership in Australia as the hallmark of its achievement. The specific remedies that the Opposition would propose, if it came into government, to correct the alleged defects in the housing situation are related to the Opposition's belief that there is something bad in home ownership because this makes a person into a little capitalist. I use the words of a predecessor of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who will speak in this debate. Although the Leader of the Opposition did not say much about it, his motion foreshadows an urgent need to appoint a joint select committee - of this Parliament, presumably - to inquire into and report on the grants and conditions which the Housing Agreement 1971 should provide for housing, land development and urban environment. That is the matter of public importance that we are debating. I see no need to appoint such a committee, and the Government will oppose such a proposal. My colleague, the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  has already received the views of all the State Housing Ministers on the nature of the offer of housing assistance they would wish the Commonwealth to make. These views are now being considered very carefully by the Minister and her advisers. In addition she is studying closely the nature and extent of the Commonwealth's offer of assistance to the States for housing. She will shortly be putting her proposals to her ministerial colleagues. 
Honourable members may be interested to know that, having regard to the terms of the matter that the Opposition has raised, the Minister for Housing has asked her Department to make a study of those people who are most in need of housing assistance. Those best able to inform the Commonwealth Government on this matter are the State officers who are in day to day contact with families, widows, deserted wives and others seeking housing assistance. Officers of the Department of Housing recently discussed this matter in some depth with the housing officers from all the States. We now have a comprehensive and up to date story of those in need of housing assistance and of the manner in which the States wish to obtain Commonwealth assistance to enable them to carry out their housing tasks. I venture to say that the State Ministers for Housing and their officers are better informed of housing needs and what should be done to meet them than are most members of this House who would of course constitute this committee. 
The Opposition does not want a committee for that purpose. It wants a committee to tell the States what they should do in a field in which the States clearly have the expertise and the competence to discharge the day to day responsibilities. 
The question of land development for residential purposes is also one which the Commonwealth Minister for Housing has been looking into very closely. She has also discussed this with a number of State Ministers and, following on these discussions, has reached the conclusion that this is a matter for the States, several of which are actively engaged in land development and have introduced schemes to keep the price of newly developed land as low as possible to young families. I might also add that under the existing CommonwealthState Housing Agreement the States may develop, and are developing, small areas of land for sale to home seekers. To take another element of the motion, urban environment is not being ignored by my colleague the Minister for Housing. As a result of informal discussions with the States it has become apparent that the States wish to experiment with new types of estate development which would include, in addition to the building of cottages, the building of a number of terrace houses and groups of cluster housing as well as modest high rise buildings for single persons and families without children in particular. 
All the State housing authorities are interested in improving the environment surrounding homes. Some of them have already embarked on interesting experiments. The States are seeking, and obtaining, more information on types of dwellings desired by home seekers, and some universities are assisting them with this work. The point I am making in relation to all the elements in the motion is that it is perfectly clear that there is not an 'urgent need', to quote the motion, to appoint a joint select committee of this Parliament for the purposes set out by the honourable gentleman. As I said before, the responsible authorities are the State governments. They have the expertise. Is the Opposition suggesting that the State housing authorities are not competent to decide these matters, that they have not the expertise and that these are not unquestionably matters which lie within the constitutional powers of the States? We will be hearing from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Housing, who has been overshadowed today by his Leader. He can tell us just what the Labor Party does think about the competence of the State authorities in this field. 
I think it is overweening arrogance on the part of the Labor Party Opposition to suggest that this Parliament knows better than the State governments what the States want and the priorities that they attach in this field, because this is the implication in its move to set up a select committee for the purpose named in the motion. As I say, my colleague has been actively discussing this matter with the States and they, from their knowledge, experience and expertise and also from a consciousness of where their responsibilities lie, have made clear where their priorities stand. As I have also said, the Government will very shortly proceed, as a result of the discussions that my colleague has had with the States, to decide its attitude on the new agreement after the existing one expires. The Government opposes the motion. 
 I rise simply because the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said that he understood that there was some problem in relation to finance because Australia is prepared to plan the finance for this telescope on a triennial basis and Britain is prepared to plan the finance only on an annual basis, the consequence being a delay in the provision of finance. The honourable member asked whether this would be likely to inhibit the development of the project. As he would be aware, I am only assisting the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and therefore I have no personal knowledge of this matter. I have consulted officers of the Department on this subject who have assured me that there will be absolutely no difficulty at all in this respect. The finance for part of this project will be provided by a body in the United Kingdom and the required amount has definitely been committed. I think the honourable member was wrong when he said that our appropriations will be on a triennial basis. I think that the appropriations will be made annually. However, the main thing is that the honourable member can rest assured that there will be no difficulty in the provision of finance for the part of the project which Australia is handling and the part of the project which the United Kingdom is handling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
As the honourable gentleman is aware, this particular matter was covered by a recommendation of the Nimmo Committee. I should like to assure him that the Government gave it long and careful consideration before deciding to reject that particular recommendation, because one of the Government's basic purposes in the national health scheme is to encourage people to make appropriate provision, through a system of voluntary health insurance. . to cover their medical and hospital costs. The Government provides quite substantial Commonwealth benefits as an incentive for people to do so. As the Government sees it. it would be contrary to the basic concept of the scheme if Commonwealth benefits were to be made available to persons who, for various reasons - any reasons - were unwilling (o undertake health insurance. In relation to his suggestion that these people pursue the course of action described by him. f will be glad to have that examined to sec whether it would make any difference to the situation. 
VIETNAM  Mr JAMES  - I address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Australian Government taken any action whatsoever concerning the revelations of 
United States Congressmen about conditions in the prison on the South Vietnamese island of Con Son? Further, has the Government ever taken any steps to induce the Governments of North and South Vietnam to observe the conventions relating to prisoners of war? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The amounts of patients' fees written off by Public Hospitals in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth are not classified into Public, Intermediate and Private Ward categories but are only recorded in aggregate by the hospitals concerned. 
Details of these fees written off and the percentage which they represent of total patients' fees charged for each State and Territory excluding Victoria are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures relating to the revenue and expenditure of public hospitals as presently defined are only available for the years 1963-64 to 1967-68. Included m the public hospital figures for earlier years are some institutions which were subsequently classified as nursing homes following the introduction of the Commonwealth nursing home benefit in 1963. Details of the revenue and expenditure of public hospitals for the year 1948-49 are shown hi Commonwealth Year Book No. 38 of 1951. These figures indicate that patients' fees as a percentage of total maintenance expenditure were: 
I have received a considerable number of representations on this subject, both from members of this Parlia ment and from members of the public, mainly initiated by the Asthma Action Society. The position on this matter is that  Dr James  and many of his patients have made claims in respect of this particular method of treating asthma. On the initiative of the New South Wales health authorities, this was considered by the committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council which exists for the specific purpose of evaluating methods of medical treatment. The Council advises the State and Commonwealth Governments. 
The committee made an evaluation on the basis of information given to it by  Dr James  and, although it formed the view that this method does produce satisfactory results, it felt that there was nothing sufficiently unusual in the method to justify the sort of action suggested by the honourable gentlemen. Now  Dr James  has disputed that and has since said that the committee of the National Health unci Medical Research Council did not have the full information in relation to this matter before it. To that, one might reply that the reason why the committee did not have the full information before it is that  Dr James  did not give it to the committee. But since  Dr James  has made this claim he has been asked to provide this further information and the committee will be considering that and making a judgment on it. In respect of the specific matter of whether the Commonwealth Government will make available a grant to set up clinics, I make the point to the honourable gentlemen that the provision of health services is a matter for the States and that any particular request along those lines should be directed to the State governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The replies to these questions were published in Hansard on June 9th, 1970, pages 3197 and 3198. 
In relation to the general question,  Mr Speaker,  1 point out that this question should be more appropriately addressed to the Minister for Education and Science, for whom I am acting at the moment. In that capacity, I do not know the answer but 1 will find out. In relation to the Australian Capital Territory, a report has been made on the future of nursing education in the Australian Capital Territory. One of the recommendations made in the report is that part of the training of nurses should be undertaken at a college of advanced education. This is being actively discussed at the present moment between my Department and the College of Advanced Education in the Australian Capita! Territory and the Department of Education and Science with a view to introducing a course in the next triennium. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) In his 1969 Election Policy Speech the Prime Minister promised that Commonwealth medical benefits and fund benefits would be increased so that the difference between benefit entitlements and the common fee charged by doctors would not at any time exceed $5 even for the most complicated and costly surgical procedures. He indicated that in order to achieve this there would be an overall increase in Commonwealth medical benefits at a cost of $16ra a year and that there would be small increases in the rates of contribution to the health insurance funds. The increases in contributions foreshadowed were 15 cents a week for family contributors and 7 cents a week for single contributors to the highest table in New South Wales and amounts not exceeding 10 cents a week for family contributors and S cents a week for single contributors to the highest tables in the other States. During the period of development of the reconstructed medical benefits scheme major improvements were introduced. In particular, it was decided to provide differential benefit rates for many services provided by general practitioners and specialists. This involved the separate specification of most common fees for services by general practitioners and specialists and a substantial alteration in the application of the common fee concept to the services as listed in the benefits schedule. This decision to refine and improve the ^Scheme in this way involved additional Commonwealth expenditure of the order of $13. 5m a year based on available data and utilisation rates then applying. The decision did not, however, involve any further increases in the rates of contributions to the health insurance funds over and above those foreshadowed in the Election Policy Speech. The total increase in contributions resulting from the contribution adjustments made is estimated to be $20.4m a year, lt was also decided to further, liberalise the Subsidised Medical Services Scheme which, since 1st January 1970, has provided full insurance coverage for persons in receipt of unemployment and sickness benefits, newly arrived migrants and families whose incomes did not exceed $39.00 per week (since amended to $42.50 per week). The legislation passed by Parliament in June 1970 extended this Scheme so that families whose income do not exceed $48.50 per week need to meet only a portion of normal health insurance contributions to insurance organisations to be covered for their hospital and medical expenses. The additional cost to the Commonwealth of this amendment was estimated to be $1.6m for the medical coverage and $1.4m for the hospital coverage. 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Recent action to assist the home-building industry wilh its forward planning and to maintain a high level of activity includes - 
Frequent discussions between officers of my Department and the Treasury and representatives of the Master Builders' Federation of Australia, the Housing Industry Association and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia; 
The undertaking by my Department of a wide survey of home builders to ascertain their views on the trend in future dwelling commencements; 
An increase in the allocation of funds for housing under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to $142,550,000 for the current financial year. This is almost 8 per cent more than the sum allocated for 1969-70; and 
On 23rd July 1970 the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia announced that it had, in the course of its contacts with savings banks, trading banks and life offices, asked these institutions to maintain, and in the case of savings banks to the extent practicable to increase, their volume of housing loans in the coming months. I have since been informed that, overall, the savings banks hope to approve significantly more housing loans in the current quarter than in the preceding June quarter. 
No. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Expenditure under the War Service Homes Act in 1969-70 was $55m. 
The amount of principal and interest received in 1969-70 was $77,392,779. 
The amount received in 1969-70 in respect of liabilities discharged before the end of the repayment period was $24,545,725. 
ABC: Overseas Visits  by  Staff  (Question No. 1296) 
As 1 am sure the honourable member is aware, ia Australia we have a quarantine system which is designed to prevent the introduction of exotic animal diseases into this country. If it is not the most stringent, it is among the most stringent systems in the world. This is generally recognised. This situation is brought about by constant vigilance and, in particular, a constant process of consultation and liaison between the relevant departments and governments involved, especially between my Department and the Depart ment of Customs and Excise whose officers, of course, have responsibility to act on behalf of my Department in relation to some of their duties; and between my Department and the Department of Primary Industry and, not least, the State Departments of Agriculture. This process of liaison and consultation is going on continuously. In these circumstances I should not have thought it necessary at this moment to consult specifically my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise, but if the honourable gentleman, or anyone else at the meeting to which he referred, has a particular incident in mind which would require consultation between myself and the Minister and he lets me know of it 1 will be only too glad to do so. 
-1 move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act 1964-1967 for a further period of 3 years from 1st July 1970 to 30th June 1973. Under the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act 1964-1967, capital assistance grants have been provided to the States iri respect of mental health institutions, on the basis of Si from the Commonwealth for each $2 expended by the States. The 1964-1.967 Act. which is being extended by this Bill, applies in respect of mental health institutions' which are defined as being institutions 'carried on exclusively or principally for the care and treatment of mentally ill or mentally defective persons' and which are conducted by or are in receipt of maintenance grants from a State. Assistance is made available by the Commonwealth in connection with expenditure made for the acquisition of land and buildings to be used as mental health institutions, the construction and alteration of buildings used for this purpose and the acquisition of equipment for use in mental health institutions. 
Under the 1964-1967 Act it was necessary for the States to obtain my prior approval, or the approval of a person authorised by me to grant such approvals, before 30th June 1969 for expenditure to he incurred up to 30th June 1970. Because of this time factor, no approvals have been given to any Slate since 30th June 1969. In order to ensure continuation of assistance over the next 3 years, it is necessary to provide machinery for approval to be given for expenditure incurred between 30th June 1969 and the date the new legislation receives royal assent, in cases where prior approval for the expenditure had not been obtained before 30th June 1969. A provision has therefore been included in the Bill which allows the Minister, or a person authorised by the Minister, to approve expenditure incurred during that period. 
Any such approvals will be deemed to have been given before the expenditure was incurred. In addition to new projects commenced between 30th June 1969 and the date of royal assent, this provision will also cover cases where final expenditure on projects already approved exceeds the amount previously approved. I anticipate that in practice it will apply mainly in these latter cases. Once the new legislation receives royal assent, the established procedure of obtaining prior approval to expenditure will apply. It will be necessary in all cases for expenditure to be approved before 30th June 1972 if it is to attract Commonwealth assistance. lt will be noted that section 6 of the 1964-1967 Act has been repealed. The purpose of this section had been to ensure continuation of a provision in the earlier 1955 Act which specified certain amounts as the level of the respective States' entitlement. When amending legislation was enacted in 1964 and again in 1967 not all the States had reached the level of entitlement specified in the 1955 Act and section 6 was necessary to preserve that entitlement. However, all States have now received their entitlement under the 1955 Act and continuation of section 6 is therefore no longer necessary. The Commonwealth has provided material assistance to the States under this legislation, and the 1955 Act. amounting in aggregate to just on $44m. There is o doubt that the Slates have derived great benefit over the past 15 years, as a result of the Commonwealth's participation in this particular area of mental health, which has in turn enabled the States to provide greatly improved facilities for mental patients. However, the Government is aware that the various States are now placing more emphasis on expenditure on community mental health projects, such as early treatment psychiatric centres, day centres and hostels and on integrated services, lt also recognises that the emphasis on capital expenditure in traditional mental health institutions is declining in favour of such projects, a large proportion of which qualifies for Commonwealth assistance under the legislation which this Bill proposes to continue. It is evident, from an examination made of the States' proposed capital works programmes over the next 3 years, that there is still a significant amount of capital works to be done to warrant continuation of the Commonwealth's participation in the form of capital assistance grants. The development by the States of community and integrated mental health services will be kept under observation by the Commonwealth so that, at the end of the 3 year period, the Government will be in a position to consider what future role the Commonwealth should play in the mental health field. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
On15th April 1970, the United Slates Authorities announced the suspension of registration of 2,4,5-T formulations for use around the home, on food crops grown for direct human consumption, and in aquatic areas. The notice of suspension issued on 20th April 1970 required immediate cessation of interstate movement of the suspended products, the registrants being requested to stop the sale of the suspended products to the public and to recall the products on dealers' premises. Similar restrictions were introduced by the Canadian Authorities on 14th May 1970. 
Yes. There have been reports from the United States of the occurrence of teratogenic effects in animal experimentation involving high dosage administration of 2,4,ST and certain 2,4D esters. 
Legislation concerning the use of pesticides is the responsibility of the individual States and Territories of Australia. The National Health and Medical Research Council at its Seventieth Session in April 1970made the following statement: 
Council considered recent reports of teratogenic abnormalities in mice and rats following administration of large oral doses of the weedicide 2,4,5T. This substance is included in Section III of the Recommended Tolerances for residues of Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals in Foods as published at Appendix VI to the Report of the Sixty-eighth Session of Council. No residues have been detected and none is permitted in or upon food. 
Council considered that the scientific evidence available required verification because the work done did not specifically incriminate 2,4,ST as a toxicological hazard to humans. 
Until this information is available Council recommended: 
the use of 2,4,5T in areas where water contamination could occur should not be permitted; 
all persons exposed to 2,4,5T in its manufacture and use should use special precautions, such as protective clothing, to ensure that skin absorption did not occur; 
until further evidence is available, special precautions should be taken to avoid exposure of women, particularly those in the child-bearing age group to 2,4,5T.' 
Pesticides in use in Australia are kept under a continuing review by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The increase in contributions payable by contributors to registered medical benefits organisations in respect of the new Medical Benefits Plan introduced ' as from 1 July 1970, is estimated at $20.4 million for the first 12 months. 
HMAS Parramatta (Question No. 1418) 
The Ministerfor Education and Science has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The most recent figures available of fees paid by students attending universities, other than those whose fees are already paid by Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities, are those for the 1969 calendar year. The universities have estimated that in that year, the fees received from these students totalled $11. 07m 
For 1970, after allowing for increased student numbers and increased university fees, my Department has estimated that fees payable by these students will be $13m. 
These estimates do not take into account the value of reimbursements to students who as employees of the Commonwealth are eligible for a refund of fees paid. Nor do they take account of savings to the Commonwealth from a reduction in claims for income taxation deductions which would arise from the abolition of fees. 
After taking account of these factors it is estimated that, if the Commonwealth were meeting the cost of fees payable in 1970 by students attending university, whose fees are not already paid by Commonwealth and State Departments and instrumentalities, that cost would be about $11.5m. 
With respect to colleges of advanced education, information collected indicates that in 1969 fees totalled about  Sim.  After allowing for rising fees and student increases, and for reductions in taxation claims and the abolition of reimbursements to government employees, it is estimated that the cost to the Commonwealth of paying the fees of students attending colleges of advanced education in 1970, whose fees are not already paid by Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities, would be almost $3m. 
and (d) This information is not available to me as State authorities have not been able to provide sufficient details of the components of fee income for my Department to establish the cost to the Commonwealth of meeting the cost of fees payable by students attending these institutions whose fees are not already paid by Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Northern Territory the administration of education by the Commonwealth is shared by the Departments of Education and Science and the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration. The answers to this question are shown separately for the responsibilities of each authority. 
Community schools under the control of the Department of Education and Science 
All teachers at Community Schools are employed by the South Australian Education Department, who have made available all of the statistics in this section. 1 (a) (b) (i) (ii). The following numbers of teachers (i) resigned and (ii) took leave during 1969: 
I am aware that meat used for canned pet food is not subjected to the same standards of inspection as meat used for human consumption is. However, I am not aware of the reports he mentioned that canned pet food is being used for human consumption. I might add that the standard for canned pet food is a matter for State governments and State legislation, the Commonwealth having responsibility only in relation to its Territories. I understand that the desirability or otherwise of introducing a uniform standard for canned pet foods has been considered by the Public 
Health Advisory Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, but the discussions by the Public Health Advisory Committee have not reached any finality yet. 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No statistical data is maintained showing the average cost of a War Service home in each State capital city. Details of the average cost of War Service bornes built or financed in each State during the year ended 30th June 1970 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member'? question is as follows: 
At 30th June 1970 there were 11,763 hospital benefit members (0.29 per cent of total hospital benefit members) and 12,336 medical benefit members (0.33 per cent of total medical benefit members) who were enrolled with registered organisations for the benefits of the Subsidised Medical Services Scheme provided at  result of the National Health Act 1969. 
The total cost to the Commonwealth for the six months ended 30th June 1970 was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: No. 
National Service: Interdepartmental Committee (Question No. 1463)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On what dates have there been meetings of (he interdepartmental committee established to consider the implementation and operation of the National Service Training Scheme. 
It is true that as from 1st November patients who wish to claim the specialist rate of benefit under the health benefits plan will be required to attach a notice of referral to the claims that they send to their fund. This procedure was devised as a result of work undertaken by a working party which consisted not only of members of the Australian Medical Association and members of my Department but also members of all 4 royal colleges. They were unanimous on the form to be used and the procedure devised. The form provides for 3 categories. A patient will be referred for an opinion, for immediate treatment or for continuing management of an existing condition. 
I would imagine that the case referred to by the honourable gentleman would be the last one. In this case, the currency of the referral note will be for 12 months in normal cases unless the specialist believes that it is in the interests of the patient for the patient to see his general practitioner again before 12 months has elapsed. Whether or not, as the honourable gentleman asked, a person in the situation described by him will have to pay his general practitioner for renewal of the referral form will depend on the general practitioner. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operations of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
TRACTOR BOUNTY Ministerial Statement 
I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspects of the provision of, and arrangements for the supply of, pharmaceutical benefits under the National Health Act 1953-1970, with particular reference to- 
the scope of the scheme; 
al) factors contributing to the cost of the scheme; and 
the effects of the scheme on the health and welfare of the community. 
That the committee consist of 7 members, 4 to be appointed by the Prime Minister and 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the  Chairman  be appointed by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of votes, also have a casting vote. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may from time to time appoint another member of the committee to be  Deputy Chairman,  and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the Deputy Chairman, when acting as Chairman, have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of votes, also have a casting vote. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, and to move from place to place. 
That the committee report to the House as soon as possible. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
The salient element in those terms of reference is in paragraph (1). Honourable members will recall that the original Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme came into operation on 1st June 1948. That scheme, which was operating on a limited basis, was replaced on 4th September 1950 by a new scheme based on the supply of a list of essential life saving and disease preventing drugs. On 2nd July 1951 an extended scheme for pensioners enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service and their dependants was introduced to provide a more comprehensive range of benefit for these people than was available under the general Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
In addition to these arrangements, provision had been made for the supply of benefits through hospitals, bush nursing centres, mission stations, etc., and for the support of mass immunisation programmes by the free issue of products for these campaigns, generally conducted by State and Territory authorities. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme continued on this basis until March 1960 when it was decided to widen the scheme and impose a charge of SO cents per prescription for the general public. Of course, the Government continued to provide pensioner pharmaceutical benefits without charge. 
At the present time the pharmaceutical benefits scheme operates on the basis of supplying a comprehensive range of benefits which, when prescribed by a doctor, are supplied by a chemist: 
free to pensioners in possession of a pensioner medical service entitlement card; and 
for SO cents to other patients. 
Every man, woman and child in Australia is entitled to receive these benefits and the patient has complete freedom of choice both as regards the doctor and chemist, there has been a continuing increase in the expenditure under the scheme and the Commonwealth expenditure has increased from $70.4m in 1961-62 to $ 136.7m in 1969-70. The estimate expenditure for the current year is $155. lm. 
Honourable members will be fully aware of the number of parties who have a particular interest in the operation of thi Scheme. These include the patient, doctor, chemist, drug manufacturer or supplier, hospital and, of course, the Government. Each of these parties does not necessarily have the same identity of interest and it is natural for them to tend to prefer their own particular interests. This is an ever present element in the operation of any national health scheme and it is the Government's responsibility to ensure as equitable a balance as possible between the interests of the various parties. Having regard to the importance of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to the community, the increasing cost to the Commonwealth or, in other words, the taxpayer and the absence of any Parliamentary review of the scheme, the Government considers that the time is now appropriate for such a review. 1 commend the motion to honourable members. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley) .(3.42)-  Mr Speaker,  the Opposition welcomes this proposal by the Government and will participate in the select committee inquiry. We could scarcely do otherwise; it would be inconsistent with views which the Opposition has expressed repeatedly in this House for many years. It has been quite clear to members of the Opposition, and, indeed, to many informed people and the general public, that the spiralling cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme deserves much closer attention. We are glad that a select committee of this Parliament will investigate the subject and that it is to be given the wide terms of reference proposed in the motion. 
I would like to take the opportunity of suggesting that this is clear evidence in support of the need for standing committees to conduct continuing in-depth inquiries into various aspects of public administration. If we had standing committees charged with the responsibility of a continuous in-depth inquiry into aspects such as the health services in Australia then this particular subject, concern for which has apparently caught up with the Government, would have been one about which a thorough report could have been compiled by this time. Therefore full information could have been before the House and available for the benefit and guidance of the Government. It is regrettable that it has taken so long to reach this position. 
I mention once again that there is no doubt that the pharmaceutical benefits scheme has become an extraordinarily expensive system. This is not to say that the scheme is not justified but it is evidence that, because of the abnormally large amount of money being put into the scheme in comparison with other sectors of health expenditure, there ought to be some close scrutiny of the way in which the money is being used. After all, this money comes from the taxpayers and we have a responsibility to ensure that when we spend public money - it does not belong to the Parliament or to the Government - we achieve maximum efficiency for it. 
This year it is proposed that the cost of this service, including that part of it relating to pensioner pharmaceutical benefits, will increase by $18.4m to a total of $155m. This represents 37 per cent of the total expenditure proposed in the Budget for the national health scheme. That money is to be appropriated for this area alone. To put it in plainer words, more than $1 in every $3 spent for health services under the Commonwealth Budget will be provided to support or maintain the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This is the most expensive sector of all our areas of health expenditure. It accounts for nearly 4 times the amount we will be spending on hospital benefits. It costs nearly $60m more than we will be providing for medical benefits. 
The statistics available in the last annual report of the Department of Health show that between 1961 and 1969 there was a 60 per cent increase in the number of prescriptions per head of population provided under this scheme. In the same period the cost per prescription per head of population increased by 74 per cent. In that same period the consumer price index increase was only 18.8 per cent. Even allowing for the fact that costs in the area of health services increased at a faster rate than general cost movements in the community, a cost increase of 74 per cent compared to the consumer price index cost increase of 18.8 per cent in the same period seems to indicate that there is something quite wrong, that there is some deepseated problem affecting cost movements in the supply of pharmaceuticals under this scheme. 
There are 2 prominent features which come out of a quick review of the statistics available in the annual report of the Department of Health. Firstly, there is a greater usage of benefits under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This may be clearly justified on the basis of health needs which in the past were neglected or because with the development of new drugs some people find that drugs are now available and can be supplied for treatment of their particular problems. I do not know the facts. This is the sort of question that arises in my mind. I am stressing that on the face of the evidence available there are clear grounds for investigation into these particular fields. 
This abnormal explosion in costs is something which clearly needs a thorough assessment as distinct from the increase in usage which apparently could be justified on the basis of the clearly defined needs of the people. From what one can extract from the statistics in the annual report of the Department of Health it does not seem that the pharmacists are responsible for this increase. At page 123 of the last annual report the statistics show that in 1962, for instance, 38 per cent of the cost of pharmaceutical benefits went as remuneration to suppliers. In 1969 the proportion which went to the suppliers was still 38 per cent. Again I say that on the face of the evidence it does not seem that the pharmacists have been responsible for the increase. However, there are other factors which I hope the proposed committee will assess intensively. It may well be that there is a greater proportion of prepared lines in the total requirement of drugs. In turn it might require much less time and much less equipment to handle these particular lines. Again that might have justified a reduction in the total cost of the services and possibly in the proportion of remuneration. I am not sure of these things. These are matters which clearly require some sort of answer. 
There is one particular matter in which I am interested. I will not predetermine it but will await with keen interest the outcome of the committee's deliberations and recommendations. I am keenly interested to discover the activities and ramifications of overseas participation in pharmaceutical manufacture and supply in Australia. In fact, 80 per cent of the prepared drug market is controlled by overseas companies. I might mention in passing that I hope the proposed committee will have available to it better information and statistical data than the Minister is able to supply to members of this House. 
On 19th August of this year the Minister for Health replied to a question which I posed about the number of pharmaceutical manufacturing companies operating in Australia. He said: 
My Department does not maintain statistics relative to the overall pharmaceutical industry in Australia and I am therefore unable to provide an answer on this basis. 
However, in the course of investigations conducted by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs in 1968 that Committee was able to establish that 141 manufacturers were listed as drug suppliers in Australia. The Committee found that S3 of these companies were Australian companies; 33 were United States, including 2 Australian and United States joint companies; and 27 were United Kingdom companies, including 1 joint company. I repeat that I hope the sources of information available to the Minister are improved considerably if the Department of Health is to supply data to the Committee. This is not a reflection on the people who are manning the Department of Health; it is rather a reflection on the facilities available to them and the instructions under which they operate. If the Minister does not make this sort of improvement I hope that the Committee will be able to develop other sources which are more reliable and more comprehensive than the ones available (o the Minister. 
From the details elicited by the Senate Committee it is overwhelmingly evident that the Australian drug manufacturing industry is overseas controlled. Recent information which I have obtained shows that the 20 largest drug manufacturing companies in Australia control or are responsible for supplying 69 per cent of the total market. This in itself seems a fair degree of concentration of drug manufacturing companies and it raises a number of questions which in turn I trust will be thoroughly investigated by the Committee. In particular I refer to the extent to which overseas companies are responsible for restrictive practices to keep prices high. For instance, in 1964 a decision was made in the Equity Court in New South Wales by  Mr Justice  Myers in a case involving Bayer Pharma Pty Ltd which is a subsidiary of Sterling Drug Inc. It was shown that Sterling's books indicated that drugs bought from Bayer Pharma Pty Ltd were in fact being bought at cost price. However, the books of Bayer showed that they were being sold at 50 per cent profit. The Sydney Morning Herald' of 2nd April 1964 stated: 
The Judge said the entries, in fact, enabled Sterling Drug lnc. to conceal the real profit it was making by dividing it between the two companies. 
That is between Sterling and Bayer. There has been additional evidence of this sort of practice overseas. But on the basis of what has been put forward the practice overseas is clearly filtering through and having some effect in Australia. 
The United States Justice Department in March of this year charged in Washington that Bristol Myers had conspired with 2 other big drug companies to monopolise the sale of a major antibiotic and thus to keep its price artificially high. The Beecham Group Ltd was involved in this conspiracy. On the basis of the information and the charges made by the United States Justice Department this was a clear monopoly activity - 'oligopoly' would be the more correct term - by Bristol Myers conspiring with other companies to restrict the provision of a particular drug on the market so that prices could be maintained at a high level. The drug referred to was ampicillin. This drug had been fairly limited in Australia at the time the charge was being made. As I understand the terms of reference the Committee that is now proposed will be able to investigate this sort of allegation. 
On the subject of pharmaceutical industries the 'Economist' of 2nd April 1966 stated: 
High prices and selling costs (23 per cent of final costs) cannot be flannelled away with talk, of research expenditure and risks by an industry that averages twice the return on capital of all industry in America - and where some companies notch up twice that again. The advertising is the hinge of the whole selling operation, since the drug houses realised early on that their business offers a unique proposition: the customer (patient) does not exercise free choice while the doctor, who chooses (prescribes), does not pay. So prices can stay high, held up by huge promotional expenditure. 
I think the observation which has been made in the 'Economist' has some relevance to certain practices in Australia, in 1965 the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  drew public attention to the high expenditure committed by the drug companies in Australia to promoting sales. The evidence of this practice was so overwhelming that the 1965-66 annual report of the Department of Health in fact endorsed the honourable member's criticism and indicated that official pressure bad been brought to bear on the drug companies to try to cut down this sort of wasteful cost which, as is the nature of all costs in industry and commerce, is passed on finally to the consumer and in this case to the Government, because of the degree to which it supports the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Finally this cost reaches the taxpayer, the man who bears all the burden, because he is the man who has to provide the public finance for expenditure in various areas. 
The Opposition welcomes the proposals. They are long overdue. Members of the Opposition are concerned that the attitude of members of the Committee should be directed towards providing the maximum advantages for the Australian community. The Australian consumer is the most neglected person in the Australian community. I hope that the shibboleths of propping up large overseas drug companies which have consistently run through the speeches of supporters of the Government on the various occasions we have discussed this sort of topic in the House will be forgotten and that the members of the Committee will approach this inquiry with a unanimous spirit of wanting to root out any evidence of inefficient use of public expenditure because of malpractices or because of the cartel arrangements or the restrictive practices of any organisations associated with the manufacture or supply of drugs in Australia. 
The answer to the  honourable member's  question is as follows: 
No. 
In association with the implementation of the new provision requiring health insurance funds to obtain re-registration under the National Health Act, all aspects of their operations, including management expenses, are at present receiving close attention and will continue to be the subject of detailed examination by my Department. 
The answer  to  the  honour able member's  question is as follows: 
Following inquiries from the State Health Authorities I understand that in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania, beds in public and private hospitals are not, at present, closed due to the shortage of nurses. 
Insofar as New South Wales and Victoria are concerned, accurate figures are not available. Complete figures are not maintained in the former State due to day to day fluctuations in the position. 
The only hospital affected in South Australia is the Royal Adelaide Hospital. The number of beds closed at this public hospital is 145, a percentage of 2.2 per cent of all approved public and private hospital beds in South Australia at August 1970. 
Whilst the Northern Territory hospitals are not affected, the position in the Australian Capital Territory is that the Canberra Hospital has 16 general ward beds at present closed. This represents 2.4 per cent of the total bed capacity at August 1970. 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade  (Question No. 589) 
1 have not in my head the actual wording of the condition of a patient in these circumstances, but it does involve the patient primarily being bedfast or dependent upon other people such as nurses for all of his needs. That is a general statement of the condition. The second part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman was: How is the decision made as to whether patients are classified as intensive care patients? The answer is that they are classified individually by medical officers of my Department. This does not mean that in the first instance every patient is seen by a Commonwealth medical officer. What happens is that a form is filled in by the matron of the nursing home and by the patient's doctor, and the medical officer of my Department makes a judgment on the basis of what is contained in the form as to whether or not it is an intensive care case. If the medical officer is doubtful he obtains further information from the matron and talks to the patient's doctor. If he is still doubtful he actually goes to the home and examines the patient's record himself and observes the patient. In all cases the benefit of the doubt is given to the patient in granting the intensive care benefit. 
In addition to this, medical officers from my Department visit most nursing homes at least twice a year and check the cases which have been granted intensive care benefit and the cases where the benefit has not been granted. I might add that this system has produced a situation where 42 per cent of the total number of patients in nursing homes in Australia are classified as intensive care cases. When the scheme was introduced I predicted that the number of nursing home cases which would be classified as intensive care cases would be about 40 per cent. It has proved to be somewhat more than that. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health on the activities of the Commonwealth Department of Health for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operations of the home savings grant scheme for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operation of the States 
Grants (Dwellings For Aged Pensioners) Act 1969. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee has recommended that oxygen be made available as a pharmaceutical benefit in certain cases on the authority of the Commonwealth Director of Health. 
There are however difficulties in giving effect to the Committee's recommendations. Special apparatus and appliances necessary in administering oxygen In patients cannot be provided under the existing provisions of the National Health Act and in addition there are particular problems duc to the weight and size of the containers which make distribution of oxygen through normal channels used to supply pharmaceutical benefits not practicable. 
These problems are currently being examined by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The weekly family contribution charged by the major registered medical benefits organisations in each State is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of years each Medical and 
Hospital Fund which had exceeded operating expense levels of15 per cent and  12  per cent of contribution income respectively in 1968-69 had exceeded those levels in the last 10 years were: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Payments madeto registered medical benefits organisations by their members during the financial year 1968-69 amounted to $73,439,642. Figures for 1969-70 are not yet available, 
Payments made to registered medical benefits organisations by the Commonwealth during the financial year 1969-70 amounted to $56,863,296. (This figure includes payments of $1,819,720 towards Special Account deficits, $97,119 fund benefit paid to Subsidised Medical Services contributors and $11,794 in respect of Subsidised Medical Services management expenses.) 
(a) Payment of Fund benefits (including ancillary benefits) to members by registered medical benefits organisations during 1969-70 totalled $68,549,713. (This figure includes $97,119 fund benefit paid to Subsidised Medical Services contributors). 
Commonwealth benefits paid amounted to$54,934,663. 
(a) There were 3,753,079 members of registered medical benefits organisations as at 30th June 1970. 
Details in respect of the number of members who received payment from registered medical benefits organisations are not available. 
(a) Claims for Fund benefit were accepted in respect of 37,611,978 services during 1969-70. 
Commonwealth benefit was paid in respect of 36,648,899 professional services during 1969-70. 
(a) The average amount of fund benefit paid per service during 1969-70 was $1.82. 
The average amount of Commonwealth benefit paid per service during 1969-70 was $1.50. 
The principal reasons for refusing payment of Fund benefits were: 
the service was not rendered by a doctor in private practice; 
the service was rendered during an ordinary waiting period or a maternity waiting period; 
the claim was not submitted within 12 months of the date of service; and 
ineligibility due to provisions concerning non-payment where there is a claim to compensation or damages. 
Informationto permit a calculation of the percentage of claims refused for each of the reasons mentioned is not available. However, during 1969-70 the number of individual services for which no Fund benefit was paid represented 1.76 per cent of the total individual insured services. 
There were 77 registered medical benefits organisations operating throughout Australia as at 30th June 1970. 
The estimated number of contributors and their dependants and that number, represented as a percentage of the total population, by States as at 30t h June 1970, is set out hereunder: 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941, I present the annual report on National Fitness activities for the year 1969. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965- 1966, I present the sixth annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. An interim statement of the Corporation was tabled in the House of Representatives on 16th September. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
(a) Payments made to registered hospital benefits organisations by their members during the financial year 1968-69 amounted to $109,457,354. Figures for 1969-70 are not yet available, 
Payments made to the registered hospital benefits organisations by the Commonwealth during the financial year 1969-70 amounted to $38,115,581. (This figure includes payments of $16,062,877 towards Special Account deficits, $424,788 fund benefits paid to Subsidised Medical Services contributors and $32,547 in respect of Subsidised Medical Services management allowance.) 
(a) Payment of Fund benefits (including ancillary benefits) to members by registered hospital benefits organisations during 1969-70 totalled $119,056,728. (This figure includes $424,788 fund benefits paid to Subsidised Medical Services contributors.) 
Commonwealth benefits amounted to $21,595,369.. 
(a) There were 3.995,527 members of regis- tered hospital benefits organisations as at 30th June 1970. 
Details in respect of the number of members who received payment from registered hospital benefits organisations are not available. 
(a) Claims that qualified for Fund benefits during 1969-70 totalled 1,378,753. 
Claims that qualified for Common  wealth benefits during 1969-70 totalled 1,323,780. 
(a) The average amount of Fund benefit paid per claim during 1969-70 was $86.35. 
The average amount of Commonwealth benefits paid per claim during 1969-70 was $16.31. 
The principal reasons for refusing payment of Fund benefits were: 
hospitalisation during an ordinary waiting period or a maternity waiting period; 
claims not submitted within 12 months of the period of hospitalisation; and 
maximum annual benefits previously paid. Information to permit a calculation of the percentage of claims refused for each of the reasons mentioned is not available. However, the total number of days for which Fund benefit was refused represented 2.4 per cent of the total days for which Fund benefit was paid. 
There were 103 registered hospital benefits organisations operating throughout Australia as at 30th June 1970. 
The estimated number of contributors and their dependants and that number, expressed as a percentage of the total population, by States as at 30th June, is set out hereunder: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 76 of the National Health Act 1953-69 required each registered health benefits organisation to furnish its annual returns to the DirectorGeneral of Health within 3 months after the expiration of the organisation's accounting year or within such further time as the DirectorGeneral, on the application of the organisation, allowed. Organisations did not have a common accounting year. While most organisations operated on an accounting year ending on 30th June,  a  sizeable minority had a different basis. 
Under the National Health Act 1953-70, commencing with the year ending 30th June 1971, all registered organisations must adopt a common financial year ending 30th June so that all annual returns, unless an extension of time is granted, will be submitted by 1st October. From these returns the Director-General will prepare the statutory report required by section 76 (1) of the Act. It is anticipated that this report will be laid before both Houses of Parliament during the subsequent autumn session. These will be the final figures in respect of each registered organisation, but it should be possible to supply reliable preliminary information during December of each year to any honourable member who wishes to have it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Similar strips in Australia are impregnated with an insecticide, Dichlorvos. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council approved the inclusion of strips containing 20 per cent or less Dichlorvos in Schedule 5 of the Uniform Poisons Schedules at its Sixtyeighth Session in May 1969. This Schedule requires the following warning to be displayed on the strips: 
1 am aware of the honourable gentleman's representations. I make it perfectly clear that neither I nor the Government has any power to compel doctors to join or to continue to participate in the pensioner medical service. Nevertheless, there are well over 6.000 doctors in Australia currently participating in the service. I understand that the doctors in question  -  I and my Department have not been told this by the doctors - object to the fact that their activities in connection with the pensioner medical service are the subject of an examination by a committee of inquiry set up under the National Health Act. In the process they have misrepresented both to their patients and to the Press the role of my Department and the Government in these matters. For that reason I would like to make it perfectly clear that there is no limitation on the number of services which a doctor is permitted to provide for a patient. However, the doctor is not permitted to claim for services which are not medically necessary. 
The role of the committees of inquiry is to decide whether, in fact, the services provided by doctors are medically necessary and to make recommendations to the Director-General of Health or myself in relation to them. Contrary to what has been implied by these doctors both to their patients and to the Press, these are not departmental committees or inquisitions by my Department. They are committees which consist of 5 doctors, 4 doctors nominated by the Australian Medical Association, all of whom themselves are members of the pensioner medical service, and another doctor who is the Director of Health in my Department in the State. In the process of undertaking their inquiry they do it in an informal atmosphere, questioning the doctors about case histories, their visiting arrangements and so on in respect of each of the patients in dispute. 
T make the point that these are not departmental committees. I understand that in this case the inquiry has been completed but I have not yet received the report. When I do receive it I will deal with it expeditiously. I understand from the Press that the doctors have claimed that there are particular circumstances in the area in which they operate, and the honourable gentleman has brought some of these to my attention, such as the density of the pensioner population, the lack of hospitals, distances and that sort of thing. They have claimed that this is a reason why it is necessary to visit pensioner patients more often. I do not know, until I read the transcript, whether they brought these factors to the attention of the committee. If they did not do so and the honourable gentleman could ask his constituent doctors to make available to me their views on this matter, I shall certainly take them into account in examining the transcript and the recommendations of the committee of inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Of the ready prepared prescriptions dispensed as pharmaceutical benefits during the financial year ended 30th June 1970, 89.51 per cent were identified by brands specified by medical practitioners. 
Wholly owned Australian companies supplied 10.16 per cent of the ready prepared prescriptions identified by brand, representing 7.14 per cent of the value of these prescriptions at wholesale level. 
The foregoing information is in respect of ready prepared prescription benefits dispensed by chemists, doctors and private hospitals approved as suppliers. Similar information is not available for preparations made up in the suppliers dispensaries or for benefits provided in public hospitals. 
Pursuant to section 32 of  the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1970, I present the 6th annual report of the administration and operation of that Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. An interim statement on the operations of the Act was tabled in the House of Representatives on 17th September 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 30 June 1970, the Mutual Hospital Association held the following reserves: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 30th September 1970, the only States to either increase daily charges in hospital wards or to announce such increases since 7th April 1970 are Western Australia and Queensland. 
In Western Australia, the public and intermediate ward charges of $10.00 and $13.50 per day, respectively, were replaced by a single 'standard ward' charge of $13.50 per day, with effect from 1st May 1970. On the same date the private ward charge was increased from $18.00 to $20.00 per day. The new charges cover in addition to accommodation, medical and paramedical services provided by the hospital and ancillary items such as theatre fees, wheel chairs, appliances, etc. They do not, however, cover radiology and pathology services for which a separate fee equal to the amount of Commonwealth medical benefit for the. service is charged. 
As recently' announced in the Queensland State Budget, hospital charges in that State are to be increased from 1st November 1970, as follows: 
Private Ward- from $10 per day to $13.50 per day 
Intermediate Ward- from $8 per day to $11 per day. 
The Queensland Government's policy of no charge for public ward treatment remains unaltered. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Nimmo Committee's recommendation that there be adopted  a  policy for the gradual elimination of the honorary and concessional services rendered by the medical profession is one of the matters that is  a  subject of discussion between the Commonwealth and the States at the present time but at this stage reliable cost estimates in the form sought are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) Yes. The Government gave close and careful consideration to this particular recommendation of the Committee (Rec. 10). 
However, as announced in my statement to this House on 4th March 1970, this proposal will not be adopted as it is considered contrary to the basic concepts of voluntary health insurance to make available Commonwealth insurance benefits to persons who for various reasons are unwilling to undertake voluntary insurance. 
The Government's purpose in the Health Benefits Plan is to encourage persons to make appropriate provision to cover their medical and hospital costs. As an incentive, the Government provides, to those who so insure,. Commonwealth benefits to supplement the benefits provided by the insurance funds. 
Unfortunately I was not present when the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  commenced his speech, but 1 assume that he was referring to the drug L-dopa. 
Perhaps I should inform the honourable member of the situation as I know it. The honourable member referred to the fact that limited quantities of the drug have been imported up until now lor the purpose of clinical trials, which is the normal method of introducing a new drug of this nature. Quite a number of patients have benefited from taking part in the clinical trials which have been conducted under the control of specialist neurologists. Whenever my attention or the attention of the Department of Health has been drawn to the position of patients who could benefit from treatment by this drug we have put them in contact with the doc tors or institutions undertaking these clincial trials. 
I think it was last month, although it could have been earlier, that the general marketing of the drug in Australia came up in the normal way for consideration by the Drug Evaluation Committee. Two drug manufacturers had made application to market L-dopa. One product was approved for general marketing. Consideration of the other company's application was deferred until the company provided additional information about its drug. The position now is that, through the normal processes, the drug has been approved for general marketing. I understand that the company which has obtained approval of its product for general marketing will not be in a position to place the drug on the market before November of this year. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee will be considering the question of listing L-dopa as a pharmaceutical benefit at its next meeting in November. So. if the Committee makes a favourable recommendation in respect of Listing, this will coincide more or less with the availability of the drug for general marketing. That is all the information I have in my head, but it may be of interest to the honourable member and the House. 
Unless they continue in a trial they cannot, as 1 understand it, get the drug because it is not available. But I will look at that question and see whether there is some way of ensuring continuity between now and November for the people who have benefited from the trial. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The National Health and Medical Research Council conducted an investigation and reported in November 1969, that: 
The available evidence suggests that the methods used by  Dr James  have been notably successful in cases of asthma treated by him. However, there is no evidence before the Council to suggest that greater success could be expected using  Dr James'  methods than could be achieved using other accepted methods, including physical methods, in treating asthma. 
There is nothing sufficiently unique in  Dr James'  methods to warrant conducting a full-scale, objective, clinical trial. 
The good results achieved by  Dr James  emphasise not only the value of physiotherapy in the treatment of asthma, but also the importance of gaining the patient's full confidence and co-operation. 

 Dr James' methods have now been well documented and could be made available to medical practitioners who may wish to use them. There should no longer be concern that the knowledge of  Dr James'  methods will be lost.' 

 Dr James has subsequently claimed that the Council was not fully aware of all the details of his treatment at the time the assessment was carried out. The Council, in consequence, asked  Dr James  to provide full documentation of his methods and an objective report on the results he has achieved, so that any information not available for the original investigation can be further considered by the Council.  Dr James  has provided this information, and this will be discussed at the next Session of the Council in late October, 1970. 
Yes. 
The provision of medical and hospital services to the community is primarily a State Government responsibility. Each State must therefore determine its own policy in regard to this or any other form of treatment. 
Man-made Fibres (Question No. 1674) 
No, the Government has not abandoned the idea. It still has under consideration the proposed functions and composition of the commission and in due course it will take its final decisions on this. I might add that the fact that the commission has not yet been set up has not made any difference to the implementation of the Government's proposals in respect the new health benefits plan which has been undertaken expeditiously and efficiently in the normal way by my Department. 
1 have no doubt that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  will vote for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  But the objective sought in the amendment would not provide1c towards the deficiencies about which the honourable member for Burke spoke. Throughout most of his speech the honourable member expressed a desire to remedy those deficiencies. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley states:  whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, this House is of opinion that provision should be made by the Commonwealth for adequate financial assistance to allow the development of community and integrated mental health services on a regional basis'. 
As I understand the position, if this amendment were carried it would provide no extra money for upgrading institutions of the type the honourable member has seen in Victoria and other places. The honourable member is right when in a general and philosophical sense he talks about the necessity for government to have priorities, not only priorities as between different categories of government expenditure but also priorities within each category of Government expenditure. This is particularly applicable to the Bill we are discussing and to the amendment moved by the Opposition. The fact is - I believe this to be the main reason why the amendment should be opposed - that the State governments which under the Constitution are responsible for mental health, have not asked for what the Opposition has proposed. Whatever honourable members opposite may say, they cannot get away from that fact. The reason the State governments have not asked for what the Opposition has proposed is that in their wisdom the State governments do not have the same system of priorities as has the Opposition. I know who I would rather take notice of. 
All of the Stales have competent mental health authorities in accordance with their responsibilities under the Constitution. All of the States have able, dedicated and knowledgeable people who can assess these matters. They do not need to read articles, as the honourable member for Oxley has done, or pay a fleeting visit to Sweden or some other country to form an impression. The views, attitudes and priorities of the State mental health authorities do not come from that source; they come from actual experience of running the services in a practical way and conducting mental health services on the spot. The fact is that the only people in Australia who are in that position and who have this knowledge and responsibility are the people who in their wisdom do not have the same system of priorities as those suggested in the Opposition's amendment. 
Admittedly, and to be fair, I must say that the State governments have asked the Commonwealth for more in fact than we have given in this field. 
Let me finish. You have had a good say. The States, at this stage anyway, have not asked the Commonwealth to provide money for the provision of community health services.I shall suggest to the honourable member in a moment why they have not done so. Rather the States have asked that the Commonwealth should provide hospital benefits for mental patients on the grounds that it is undesirable to discriminate - I think this was mentioned by the honourable member for Oxley either on his own account or when he quoted someone else - between the mentally and physically ill. I would like to say something about that in a moment. However, I am making the point that what the States have asked for is integral to their charter on mental health. I have heard much about this subject. I have attended 4 or 5 Health Ministers Conferences and they have brought this point forward every time. In 1970 the State Health Ministers had this to say: 
 The Suite Ministers for Health reaffirm their insistence that the charter for the mentally ill and intellectually handicapped adopted at the Health Ministers' Conference of 1967 be the basis for the future of mental health services in Australia. 
Basic to this charter is the removal of discrimination between the physically ill and the mentally ill and the physically handicapped and the intellectually handicapped. 
I regard the Opposition amendment as another attempt by honourable members opposite, sitting in their ivory tower in Canberra, to tell the States what is good for them, how to run their mental health services, to intrude their judgment gained at second hand or through reading material written by someone else, into matters which are clearly the responsibility of the States. We know that if the Australian Labor Party were to gain office it would intrude into every field, not just the field of mental health but also the field of health services generally. The Labor Party would ruthlessly use the financial power of the Commonwealth to impose its views on what it considered was the most desirable way in which to run health services in Australia. This would not be the way that the authorities in Queensland or in remote Western Australia think that mental health services should be run. The Labor Party would adopt some concept that theorists have about what is good for them. 
This is another thing that puts us on our guard and makes us realise that in this field, as in so many others, the Labor Party will ruthlessly use the financial power of the Commonwealth to impose control from Canberra. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  demonstrated this when he said, as if it were just a little thing, that the Commonwealth should be at least setting targets for development in the mental health field. The honourable member said that we who do not have the responsibility, who do not have the control, who do not have to carry on the day to day business of managing the services, should nevertheless sit here in Canberra where our only direct responsibilities are in respect to the little city of Canberra and the Northern Territory, and set targets for the States. We on this side of the house reject that sort of proposition absolutely and completely. The suggestion in the amendment is that something would have been done in a different way if the Commonwealth had provided more money. It is suggested that community health services would have been developed to a greater extent than they are now if the Commonwealth had provided more money. 
I believe that this argument does not bear examination. 
First of all, I will tell honourable members what the States have actually said, not what honourable gentlemen opposite think they should have said or what they should have done. The States have said that they have significant programmes of work still to be carried out, and the State Health Ministers recommend a continuation of the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act. What that means is that apart from the provision of hospital benefits, this was their main priority. The Health Ministers then went on to say: 
The Ministers consider that the future of mental health services involves a much greater emphasis on the development and maintenance of community mental health services and propose to examine and present a comprehensive programme for assistance in this area. 
That is fair enough. We have already undertaken that when the States have developed their programme for assistance and put it in the context of what will be done at the end of the  3-year  period envisaged in this legislation, we will give very careful consideration to the matter. But the point I am making is that the responsible authorities- 
Yes, the responsible authorities, the State governments have not yet developed a programme so that they can put a proposition to the Commonwealth. The Opposition, in its wisdom, has moved an amendment which condemns the Commonwealth for not rushing into the field, although the States make it perfectly clear that their priorities lie elsewhere. The people who bear the responsibility and who have the capacity and knowledge to determine the priorities have placed a higher priority on other things. To me this is overriding. 
The next point I make is, as I pointed out by way of interjection when the honourable member for Oxley was speaking, that there is no barrier in this legislation to prevent the States from using the money which will be made available under this legislation for the capital requirements of the development of community mental health services. Indeed, I have here a long list of projects in this field in every State in Australia, showing that the States have indicated to us what they will be using the money on during the next 3 years. In other words, the States themselves are using their resources and the assistance provided under this Act to do precisely what is contained in this proposed amendment. 
Perhaps 1 should mention some of the projects. They include, I think, one of the projects mentioned by the honourable member for Oxley in his own electorate.I might be wrong, but I think that the Wilson Park hospital is in his electorate. In Victoria there are 35 day centres for mentally retarded children. There is also the Glenhuntley Rehabilitation Centre and the Malvern Clinic. These are all projects for the development of community mental health services. In South Australia there is the community mental health centre at Woodville and the day centre for mentally retarded children at Toorak Gardens. I will not go through the whole list. The point I am making is that in no way is the provision of assistance in this form preventing the development by the States of these - and I agree with the Opposition on this point - most desirable projects in the development of community mental health services. 
The last pointI wish to make is to remind the House that the implication in the Opposition's amendment is that there is some financial barrier. It is implied that if only the Commonwealth recognised the desirability of these things and provided more money, more would be done. But the fact is that this is generally recognised, and it was recognised by us when, as the honourable member for Oxley mentioned, we decided to go flat out to institute a community mental health service in Canberra. We did this not only because, in the light of modern thinking, it was the right development, but also because it is probably the most economical type of development in the mental health field. It is very much cheaper than maintaining mental health patients in institutions. If there were a financial barrier, as implied by the Opposition, what we did in the case of Canberra just would not make sense. 
If the development of community mental health services is cheaper than the provision of the traditional mental health services, then obviously there can be no financial barrier to their development. The incentive is there. At the appropriate time and when the States, which are the responsible authorities, are prepared to give the appropriate priority to these things, they will be done. So for all these reasons the Government completely and absolutely rejects this further attempt by the Opposition to ride roughshod over the rights and responsibilities of the States by imposing on them priorities which they themselves do not share. The Government opposes the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Hayden's amendment) stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information below was obtained from the relevant Stale and Territory Hospital authorities. Due to the difficulty in applying in each State a uniform definition of the term 'senior public hospital administrator', the information was requested only in respect of those persons engaged in the administration of public hospitals having 400 beds or over, or where, due to cither its geographical location or other special status, a smaller hospital is regarded as a 'major' hospital. 
and (2) It is mentioned that 'senior public hospital administrators' has been taken as referring to General Superintendents, Chief Executive Officers and Secretaries supervising the general administration of a public hospital, as distinct from say, a clinical superintendent or medical registrar. The number of these administrators, together with the percentage of them who hold tertiary non-medical qualifications in hospital administration, is as follows: 
New South Wales, 10 (percentage not available) 
Victoria, 1 (100 per cent) 
Queensland, 5 (80 per cent) 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
The numbers of applications for Home Savings Grants received throughout Australia and 
In each State in each financial year since the inception of the Home Savings Grant Scheme on 20th July 1964 up to 30th June 1970 are shown in the table below. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following  answer to  the honourable member's question: 
While there is no absolute or general rule adopted by the Permanent Building Societies, they commonly limit the maximum loan they are prepared to grant, on the principle that a borrower should not commit more than a reasonable proportion of his income on interest and repayment instalments on a housing loan. Like other lenders the societies take a number nf factors into account, including the size and reliability of the borrower's income and his other financial commitments and responsibilities, lt would be unusual for a society to agree to repayment terms on a housing loan which involved commitments by the borrower exceeding 25 per cent of his income. 
The following table sets out the weekly income needed to repay a $12,000 loan over 25 years without committing more than 25 per cent of the borrower's income, lt is assumed that payments on loan are made at monthly intervals and that they are also compounded at a rest period of 1 month. 
The ...Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia, Rural Bank of New South Wales; Stale Savings Bank of Victoria; State' Savings Bank of South Australia. 
Nil. ' 
The Home Building Society, Queensland. 
'The Housing Commission of New South Wales, the South Austraiian Housing Trust and the Housing Department, Tasmania. 
In addition, comments have also been received from a considerable number of other organisations, Arms and individuals with an interest in the construction of housing, and more are continuing to be received. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Applications lodged with State housing authorities for houses (and flats) built with advances received under the 1956-1966 Housing Agreement and with other moneys were: 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. Parliamentary commitments prevented me at the last moment from attending this Conference. The Secretary of my Department and other senior officers were present, and I have studied a copy of the notes of the Conference proceedings. &lt;2) No. A number of matters discussed at the Conference related to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which will receive attention in the negotiation of a new Agreement that would operate from 1 July 1971. I hope shortly to discuss with the State Ministers for Housing a new offer of Commonwealth financial assistance. 
As to the first part of the question, basically the constitutional responsiblity for standards in nursing homes is a matter for the State governments, as of course was recognised by the honourable gentleman, or at least was implicitly recognised by the Nimmo Committee as was evident from the recommendation of that Committee which was referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. One encouraging development in relation to nursing homes has been the tremendous improvement in standards that has taken place in most nursing homes as a result of the introduction by this Government 2 years ago of the intensive care benefit That benefit has enabled the nursing homes to provide themselves with adequate staff. It has made it possible for officers of the States and of the Commonwealth Department of Health to insist on standards which it was not possible to insist on previously. I make the point that already the Commonwealth by its action has taken a very substantial step towards improvement of the conditions in nursing homes which were commented on by the Nimmo Committee. 
Now I come to the second part of the honourable member's question. There has been considerable discussion between the Commonwealth and State officers in respect to the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee, particularly the recommendation which applied to the titles of nursing homes. A misleading impression was given when a nursing home called itself a private hospital, and this had a misleading effect on contributors to insurance organisations. As to the third part of the question, the honourable gentleman will be aware that the Prime Minister in his policy speech before last year's House of Representatives election undertook to examine the possibility of bringing into the health insurance field intensive care nursing home patients who had been members of an insurance organisation - I forget the exact phrase - for some time. An intensive examination of that question, together with the other problems in the nursing home field, has been going on and I expect the Government to be in a position to make a decision on this in the not far distant future. 
Now I come to the last part of the honourable member's question regarding the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital costs that the Commonwealth should make unmatched grants to the States for public nursing homes. As the honourable gentleman will be aware, the Government took a considerable step forward some time ago by offering to the States matching grants for the provision of public nursing home beds. The arrangement was not severe because the States had to spend no more to obtain the matching Commonwealth funds than they had spent in previous years, in most cases. Two States have already taken advantage of this. Some have not done so yet but they are making encouraging noises that they intend to do so. It is the Government's intention to see how this works itself out before taking any new initiatives in this field. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
21 July 1970. 
No. 
1 thank the honourable gentleman for drawing my attention to what has happened to the minimum wage in Western Australia, 1 will give consideration to what he asks in his question. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1966 I present the ninth annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honour able member's question  is as  follows: 
(a) Pharmacist, Grade 1-30 Pharmacist, Grade 2-20 Pharmacist, Grade 3 - 3 Pharmacist, Grade 4 - 1 (b) Pharmacist (Inspection), Grade 1 - 20 Pharmacist (Inspection), Grade 2 - 3 
Pharmacist, Grade 1 - 1 Pharmacist, Grade 2 - 5 Pharmacist, Grade 3 - 2 Pharmacist, Grade 4 - 0 Pharmacist (Inspection), Grade 1 - 3 Pharmacist (Inspection), Grade 2 - 0 
The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The War Service Homes Act provides that an eligible person and the wife or husband of that person may be treated together as an eligible person for the purposes of the Act but the application of this provision is prohibited by the legislation if the land, or land and dwelling-house, is or are owned or proposed to be owned by the eligible person and his or her wife or husband otherwise than as joint tenants. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the period up to 30th June 1970, 37 building schemes to provide 665 single self-contained dwellings at an estimated cost of $3,537,080 were approved in accordance with the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969. The total grants paid by the Commonwealth to that date, in accordance with progress made on the building schemes, amounted to $924,847. The details by States are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as fellows: 
The 12 medical funds and 7 hospital funds which exceeded expenses rates of IS per cent and 12i per cent respectively in every year during the 10 years up to and including 1968/69, represented the following percentages of total membership in those years: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. I have received a recommendation from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee that oxygen be made available in certain cases, as a pharmaceutical benefit. Al] pharmaceutical benefits are available free to pensioners. 
My Department is currently examining the many problems which must be overcome before the Committee's recommendation can be given effect. The main difficulties are associated with the size and weight of containers, which make impracticable the distribution of oxygen through the normal channels used to supply pharmaceutical benefits. In addition, the National Health Act currently makes no provision for the supply of apparatus and appliances necessary in administering oxygen. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31 December 1.969. 
Pursuant to section 50B of the War Service Homes Act 1918-1968, I present the annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for the year ended 30 June 1970. An interim report was presented to the House on 4 September 1970. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, I present the annual statement on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1970. 
 The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Such an approach was made to each State housing authority in November 1969. From the information then provided it appears that generally in each State servicemen have the same opportunity as civilians to apply for and purchase a State housing authority dwelling. 
I have taken this part of the question as referring to dwellings erected for allotment to serving members of the forces under the provisions of the 1956-1966 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. A search of my Department's records extending back to the 1st July 1956, i.e., the date of commencement of the 1956-1966 Agreement, reveals that requests have been made as follows with the results shown: 
Victoria - Requests 10, granted 9 
Queensland - Requests 1, granted 0. 
Western Australia- Requests 31, granted 27. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No State has yet received financial assistance under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 1969. 
However,  a  scheme for the provision of a paramedical service at Murray Bridge in South Australia has been approved for subsidy under the Act and it is expected that a claim in respect of this scheme will be made during the current financial year. A proposal concerning another paramedical scheme in South Australia based on the Queen Elizabeth Hospital has been submitted to me for approval and is presently being examined. Other schemes are also under consideration by the State authorities in South Australia and Tasmania. 
Incident at Yugoslav Consulate, Melbourne  (Question No. 2174) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
assume that the honourable member refers to the Commonwealth offer of financial assistance to the Slates under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 whereby matching grants totalling $5m are available to the States over the fiveyear period to 30th June 1974 in respect of approved expenditure for the .provision of nursing home accommodation for aged persons of limited means. 
Expenditure for the erection of two nursing homes in Western Australia and three in Queensland has so far been approved for Commonwealth financial assistance under the Act. 
Tasmania has submitted for approval a project for the erection of a nursing home complex at Hobart. The project which  is  due to  commence  in the first half of 1971 is presently under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) No States have yet submitted formal claims for payment of Commonwealth financial assistance under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. 
However, it is expected that claims will be received during the current financial year in respect of nursing homes to be erected at Redcliffe, Rockhampton and Townsville in Queensland and at Albany and Bunbury in Western Australia, all of which have been approved for Commonwealth financial assistance under the Act 
The Queensland projects are estimated to cost $650,000 and this amount, if fully expended, would attract Commonwealth assistance of $323,000. In Western Australia the estimated cost is $773,500. Expenditure of this amount would attract that States maximum entitlement of $381,000 under the Act 
An application has been received for approval of erection of additional nursing home beds at Hobart and is at present being examined. 
In answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is true that the information obtained from the medical benefit funds revealed that the total payments through the funds to doctors in private practice in Australia by insured patients increased in the December quarter of 1970 by more than 20 per cent compared with the figure for the December quarter of 1969. As to the other parts of the honourable member's question, I will see whether I can obtain the information sought. 
The principal factor is that most of the evidence from countries which have banned television advertising makes it perfectly clear that this has had no effect on the consumption of cigarettes in those countries. I should like to add that the Government's efforts have been directed towards achieving control of television advertising so that such advertising does not take place at times during which young children are watching television programmes. To that end my departmental officers have been conducting discussions with the tobacco companies, the Broadcasting Control Board and others affected towards revising the voluntary code for cigarette advertising on television, both in relation to its style and its content. This includes the hours during which television cigarette commercials are broadcast. They are looking also at the question of extending this code from television to radio. The discussions are almost concluded and I expect to be able to make an announcement on the subject soon. 
The answer to the first part of the question is no, and the answer to the second part is yes. 
1 am glad to be able to inform the honourable gentleman that the Government has decided to increase the eligibility limits for family income in the subsidised medical scheme by $4 as a consequence of the decision to increase the minimum wage. This will mean that a family with an income of up to $46.50 a week will receive a full subsidy from the Government for its health insurance; those with an income of between $46.50 and $49.50 will receive a two-thirds subsidy; and those with an income of between $49.50 and $52.50 will receive a one-third subsidy. These arrangements will apply from 1st March. 
 I was not aware that private hospitals have increased their fees in the last week or so. It is the practice of my Department to deal speedily with applications by the funds for new hospital tables to cover increased hospital charges. I say advisedly that the Department deals wilh such matters as speedily as possible because, under the National Health Act, statutory obligations are placed on the Department and on the Registration Committee to examine the viability of any proposals that are made by a fund. I will under take to find out whether the funds have made proposals in respect of these new charges and do what I can to hasten the process of having them approved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CATEGORY (a) 
The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of (a) chemists and (b) doctors approved to dispense pharmaceutical benefits as at 30th June of each year since 1950 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No. However details are available of the cost to Governments for the diagnosis, treatment and : control of Tuberculosis. Under the Tuberculosis Act, 1948, the 
Commonwealth reimburses State Governments for capital and maintenance expenditure incurred in excess of expenditure for the years 1947-48. 
Details of the cost of cancer hospitals, clinics and research units are not main tained by my Department, however the respective Stale authorities have furnished the following information: 
The following figures have been obtained for the years from 1966-67to 1969-70: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. In May 1969, the Council recommended that cigarette packets should be labelled to indicate the 'tar' and nicotine yield on smoking, and that there was a need for restriction of cigarette advertising. 
Subsequent to that recommendation the Council set up an ad hoc subcommittee to consider standard analytical methods for determining the tar and nicotine content of cigarette smoke. The sub-committee's report was received by Council at its session on 29th-30th October 1970, and has not yet been made public. 
In respect of advertising the Government has recently requested that discussions should lake place to revise the voluntary code of cigarette advertising, introduced in January 1966. both  as  to its style and content. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume that the honourable member refers to the Commonwealth offer of financial assistance to the Stales under the Slates Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 whereby matching grants totalling $5 million are available to the States over the five-year period to 30 June 1974 in respect of approved expenditure for the provision of nursing home accommodation for aged persons of limited means. 
Expenditure for the erection of two nursing homes in Western Australia and three in Queensland has so far been approved for Commonwealth financial assistance under the Act. 
Tasmania has submitted for approval a project for the erection of a nursing home complex at Hobart. The project which is due to commence in the first half of 1971 is presently under consider,ation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Foot and Mouth disease is endemic in Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan. Lebanon and Iraq report a widespread incidence of this disease and Jordan a moderate incidence. 
Australia's quarantine measures are based on the knowledge that foot and mouth disease is continually present in these countries and full precautions are always taken to guard against migrants and visitors from these countries bringing foot and mouth disease into Australia. 
When air movement of migrants from Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan is permitted a code letter is placed on the visa which indicates that the bearer and his baggage arc to be subjected to a full quarantine inspection upon arrival in Australia. The only exception is in the case of the migrant from Lebanon who is able to satisfy the Australian Immigration authorities on investigation in Beirut that he is a non-rural citizen. 
All visitors to Australia are subjected to Customs examination on arrival to determine whether there is any risk of the traveller inadvertently carrying foot and mouth disease on his clothing or in his baggage. Any items of risk in the passenger's baggage, such as animal products, ara seized and destroyed . by Quarantine Officers acting with Customs Officers at all ports and airports of disembarkation from overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are a large number of antibiotics available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme which the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories has neither the patent- rights  nor the existing facilities to produce. 
However 1 would mention that antibiotics supplied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories ' which are available as pharmaceutical benefits fall into 2 broad categories: 
Those which are formulated from material ' of which the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are prime manufacturers, e.g. Penicillin V, G and Phenethicillin tablets, capsules and oral suspensions, together wilh various injectable Penicillin G preparations. 
Those which the Commonwealth  Serum  Laboratories formulate from raw material purchased from other companies, e.g. Ampicillin, Cloxacillin, and Methicillin. 
The cost including patient contribution for general benefit prescriptions of antibiotics identified as being manufactured by the Commonwealth Scrum Laboratories and supplied by chemists, approved doctors and private hospitals as pharmaceutical benefits for the year ended 30 June 1970, was $1,268,000. 
Antibiotics similarly supplied and identified as benefits, by all other firms cost $29,065,000 for the same year. In addition, benefit prescriptions  for:  antibiotics which could not be identified by brand, cost $3,708,000. 
Because some Australian based firms market imported and locally manufactured antibiotics under the same brand, it is not possible to determine with an acceptable degree of accuracy the separate cost of these benefits manufactured by firms (i) in Australia and (ii) overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian Ding Evaluation Committee has informed me thai' the 'tests currently required by pharmacopoeias may not ensure thai equivalent serum drug levels are attained following the administration of preparations of the same formulation produced by different manufacturers, although they may all. have met the requirements of the relevant pharmacopoeia! monograph. The Committee considered that other tests may well be required and such information -should be provided in future applications when .required by the Department. 
At present the legal standards for drugs in Australia under the Therapeutic Goods Act (1966) are those of the British Pharmacopoeia and the British Pharmaceutical Codex. 1 would point out that the British Pharmacopoeia does not provide criteria lo define relative effectiveness of various preparations. The criteria which the standards of the British Pharmacopoeia established relate to the identification, purity. content, and quality of individual drugs. Standards which have been promulgated under the Therapeutic Goods Act are similar in content and effect to those of the British Pharmacopoeia, but include bio-availability where appropriate. 
Formulations are at present required by my Department for all medicinal preparations which are - 
listed as pharmaceutical benefits; 
imported into Australia; 
supplied to the Commonwealth or an Authority of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honour- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  fi) Commonwealth Pharmaceutical Benefit expenditure during the months of November 1969 and February 1970 on antibiotic preparations affected by altered maximum quantities was as follows: 
November 1969 .. .." 813,119* 
February 1970 .. .. 904,558* 
Expenditure on the same range of benefits during the corresponding periods 12 months earlier was: 
November 1968 .. .. 671.170* 
February 1969 .. .. 713,471* 
* Only one price change occurred between November 1968 and February 1970 apart from changes associated with increased quantities. The effect of this minor change has been removed from the above figures. 
It is not possible to assess seasonal influences with an acceptable degree  of  accuracy because statistics based on the month of dispensing have only been available for the past two years. Formerly statistics were collated on the basis of the month in which benefit prescriptions were processed for payment which had a levelling effect on prescription volume rather than reflecting true seasonal fluctuations. Furthermore the position has been complicated by changes to the list of benefits, particularly within the antibiotic group. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3)  No  States have yet submitted formal claims  for  payment  of  Commonwealth financial assistance under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. 
However, it  is  expected that claims will be received during the current financial year in respect of nursing homes to be erected at Redcliffe, Rockhampton and Townsville in Queensland and at Albany and Bunbury in Western Australia, all of which have been approved for Commonwealth financial assistance under the Act. 
The Queensland projects are estimated to cost $650,000 and this amount, if fully expended, would attract Commonwealth assistance of $325,000. In Western Australia the estimated costs is $773,500. Expenditure of this amount would attract that State's maximum entitlement of $381,000 under the Act. 
An application has been received for approval of erection of additional nursing home beds at Hobart and is at present being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New Zealand has built a high security animal quarantine station. 
This will be a decision of the New Zealand Government. 
The New Zealand station is on Somes Island in Wellington Harbour. The station is designed to facilitate imports of animals into New Zealand, which are at present prohibited. There is no arrangement for Australia to rely on this station. The New Zealand station is not yet in operation. 
Australia is considering the establishment of a high security animal quarantine station. 
(a) Australia is also considering the establishment of a maximum security laboratory for animal diseases but this would not preclude the use of expertise in overseas laboratories such as the World Reference Centre for Foot and Mouth Disease in England which is about 24 hours distant from Sydney by air. 
The present thinking is that the station should be on an island but the actual location has not been decided. 
It is not possible to predict when the station or the laboratory would be operative, both are in the investigational stage to ensure that detailed planning is as effective as possible to ensure disease agent security. 
There have been large importations of bovine semen from the United Kingdom and from New Zealand. More recently there has been an expressed requirement for new blood not available by imports of semen. It is for this reason that a high security animal quarantine station is under consideration. 
Quarantine considerations restrict the importation of animals and to some extent animal semen. There is a procedure for the introduction of any new variety of plant unless it is a prohibited weed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)(a) As at 1st October 1970 there were 76 medical benefits organisations registered under the National Health Act. The number of organisations in each State were: 
In relation to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, in the estimates and calculations that were made of the extent of the increase in the aggregate of medical fees charged to insured patients, comparing the December quarter of 1970 with that of J 969, the figures for Western Australia were incomplete, and they are still incomplete because in that State it has been possible to survey all the funds. But I would expect that when the figures are available from all funds the pattern that applied in the other States will be shown to apply in Western Australia. 
In answer to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question in which he asked, in effect, why this should have happened in view of the nature of the common fee system, let me say that I would have thought that it would have been perfectly obvious that the introduction of the common fee system - a system designed to achieve a much greater stability and uniformity of charging in the medical profession - would, in fact, in the first instance - that is, immediately after the scheme has been introduced - produce the results that it has produced, because for the first time we have over a range of nearly 2,000 medical services what might be described as an indicative fee. It is not unnatural that, in that situation and knowing that fee, doctors' fees that were below that fee should in fact come up to that fee. 
Now let me deal with the third part of the honourable gentleman's question. My Department, in its estimates for the new scheme in relation to this financial year, assumed that this would happen, and the rate of estimation in this respect is right on line. In fact, the estimates made by my Department more or less correspond with the results that have been achieved so far, and we would expect that at the end of the financial year the cost would not be far off the estimate. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Officers of my Department have attended meetings of the Presidents of Stale and Territory Medical Boards on the following- occasions: 23rd January 1967, 28th June 1968. 12th September 1969, 31st July 1970. 
The meetings of Presidents of State and Territory Medical Boards are held annually to discuss common problems.It is not normal for such meetings to result in formal requests or suggestions to either Stale or Commonwealth Governments. 
In orderto be able to provide details of discussions at these meetings it would be necessary for me to obtain the concurrence ofthe Medical Boards concerned and this I would not propose to do. - , -, . 
The question of uniform legislation has been looked at by my Department and by the various Medical Boards on various occasions, but it has not been possible to reach agreement on the necessary requirements. I understand that the Committee on Overseas Qualifications has discussed this question. 
If I may take the last part of the honourable members question first, the published figures of proportional increases in doctors' incomes took into account the increase in the number of doctors and also the increase in the number of medical services, so that these figures would not be relevant. At present my Department does not have the detailed information which the honourable member has requested. An attempt is being made to break down, these gross figures to some extent. I feel it will be impossible to break them down to the extent the honourable member has asked for. but I will look at the point he has made and if it is possible to provide him with the information I will do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
Yes. Miss E. M. Friend, Honorary Secretary of the Radar for the Blind Club, on behalf of the Club has sent a circular to various persons and organisations in Australia, which sets out details of the operation and advantages of a device called the 'ultrasonic aid for the blind'. 
From the information available to my Department, it seems that the device in question is still in the experimental stages, and much more detailed study will be required before its full potential for benefit to blind persons can be demonstrated. In view of this, I feel that at this stage, no useful purpose would be served by a comparison , of costs between ultrasonic aids and seeing eye' dogs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The South Australian Government has announced increased hospital charges to be effective from 1st March 1971. With the co-operation of health insurance organisations in that State, principles have been introduced which closely reflect the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. 
The Nimmo Committee recommended that hospitals charge a single comprehensive fee covering the cost of accommodation and treatment and all ancillary items including theatre, fees, drugs and dressings, medical and para-medical services provided by the hospitals, and the provision of standard prosthetic and other appliances, such as wheel-chairs. 
The Committee also recommended that the hospital insurance scheme be rationalised by confining benefit tables to 3 benefits each equal to 1 of the 3 levels of hospital fees in force in each of the Slates - standard, intermediate and private wards. In addition, the Committee recommended that it be made a condition of hospital insurance that benefits will not be paid in excess of hospital accounts. 
As from 1st March 1971 the new fees to be charged by public hospitals in South Australia will be $13.50 a day for a standard ward, $18.00 a day for an intermediate ward and $22.00 a day for a private ward. The proposed new fees in respect of each ward classification will include the cost of all public hospital charges such as drugs, theatre hire and maternity fees which are at present regarded as extras. Separate charges will, however, be made for radiological and pathological services. 
The Private Hospitals Association and the Country Subsidised Hospitals Association in South Australia have recommended to their members that they also introduce charges on an all inclusive basis as from 1st March 1971. 
In the light of the adoption ofthe 'all inclusive' method of charging,the organisations in South Australia have deletedthe provision in their rules for the payment of theatre fee benefit. At the same time, they have reconstructed their hospital tables to provide benefits in line with the Nimmo Committee recommendation. In addition a higher table of benefits has also been introduced to cover charges by private hospitals for private rooms. 
There is no Commonwealth benefit payable for theatre fees. 
I would add thatthe theatre fee charged by hospitals in South Australia prior to 1st March 1971 is not classified as a medical service. The patient's$5.00 maximum personal commitment refers to medical services only and was not intended to include such hospital charges as theatre fees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of general practitioners in the electoral division of Bendigo, by districts, and the number of these doctors participating in the Pensioner Medical Service in each district are as follows: 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. Because information about the terms on which an applicant obtains finance to acquire his home is not needed to determine his eligibility under the Homes Savings Grant Act' it is not sought by the Department, nor is it usually supplied. 
The Minister for Housing has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Yes; 
The conclusions reached at the meeting, which were subsequently conveyed to me, included the State Ministers' view of what would be an appropriate interest rate on advances under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement; 
That view is being considered in the context in which it was conveyed to me. namely the terms of any further offer of Commonwealth housing assistance to the Slates after authority to make advances under the present CommonwealthState Housing Agreement ends later this year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The topic of discussion at a meeting on 6th August 1968 was the management expense levels of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of . Australia. 
Messrs. W. R. Harrop (Chairman) and R. J. Turner (Director). 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
The most recent facts available to my Department indicate that the following public water supplies in Australia are fluoridated: 
New South Wales- 
Sydney, Wollongong, Tamworlh, Orange, Goulburn, Grafton, Queanbeyan, Richmond - Windsor, Nowra - Bomaderry, Griffith, Cooma, The Entrance, Parkes, Forbes, Cowra, Toukley - Gorokan - Budgewoi, Leeton, Wellington, Glen Innes, Yass, Bega, Condobolin, Camden, Moss Vale, Hay, Nyngun, Gilgandra, Cobar, Helensburg, Maclean, Macksville, Mullumbimby, Nambucca Heads, Wyong, Manilla. Warragamba, Uralla, Walcha, Piclon, Bowraville, Berry, Cambewarra, Huskisson, Green well Point, Culburra, Shoalhavcn Heads, Urbenville, Woodenbong, Urana, Oaklands, Berridale, Jindabyne, Bundanoon, Exeter, Sutton Forrest, Berrima, Tuggerah, Ourimbah, Chittaway Point, Tacoma, Brushgrove, Chatsworth, Harwood, Lawrence, Yamba, Coldstream, Cowper, Swan Creek, Tucabia, Ulmurra, Junction Hill, Mungindi. 
Victoria - 
Tongala, Bacchus Marsh. 
Queensland - 
Townsville, Dalby, Biloela, Gold Coast, Killarney, Mareeba, Proserpine, Wandoan, Allora. 
South Australia - 
Adelaide. 
Western Australia - 
Metropolitan. Goldfields, Manjimup, Geraldton, Albany. 
Australian Capital Territory - 
Canberra Water Supply. 
Tasmania - 
Hobart, Launceston, Beaconsfield. 
Fluoridation units are not in operation in centres not listed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Commonwealth Programme for the Care of the Aged has not become operative in Victoria as that State has declined to participate. 
The health aspects of the Programme comprise the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act and the States Giants (Nursing Homes) Act. The third act of the Programme, the Slates Grants (Home Care) Act, is administered by the Minister for Social Services. 
Details of the legislation under my control are as follows: 
States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 
Assented to 14th June 1969. 
Amounts totalling $250,000 are available each year to participating States in proportions broadly related to their population, in addition, Parliament may appropriate further amounts in a year should the need arise. The amount of Commonwealth assistance is an amount equal to one-half of amounts expended by participating Stales on approved paramedical service schemes. 
Schemes for the provision of paramedical service wholly or mainly for aged persons in their homes. 
States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 
Assented to 14th June 1969. 
Financial assistance not exceeding $5m in total is available to Stales in proportions broadly related to their population during the 5-year period 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1974. The amount of Commonwealth assistance is an amount equal to one-half of expenditure by Slates for or in connexion with the erection of approved nursing homes. 
The erection or acquisition of buildings to be used as approved nursing homes, and the alteration or extension of buildings to be used as approved nursing homes so as to provide additional beds. In this context the term 'approved nursing home' means a nursing home that I am satisfied is or will be conducted as a public nursing home to provide nursing borne care wholly or mainly for aged persons of limited means. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 am aware of some concern being expressed by doctors in Canberra regarding difficulties experienced by them in having patients admitted to the Canberra Community Hospital. I would point out, however, that in all circumstances, emergency medical and surgical cases are admitted to the hospital immediately. - 
and (3) Requests for patients to be admitted to the Hospital are recorded on the 'request for admission' form. A note is made on these forms whether or not a patient is actually admitted. 
and (5) The General Superintendent of the Canberra Community Hospital has advised me that to provide the precise figures requested by you would be a very large task. All the histories of the patients admitted to the Hospital during the past 12 months would have to be examined, as the 'request for admission' form is included as part of the patient's individual medical record and is not retained separately. Whilst the information could be obtained, I am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved. Generally speaking, however, no patient is refused admission to the Hospital, and all emergency cases are admitted immediately. 
Patients for surgical treatment whose form is marked 'urgent' are. admitted within 10 days. This period of time would depend to a large degree on the frequency of operating sessions of the particular surgeon, as well as bed availability. There would be approximately 6-8 surgical patients per week who are admitted under this 'urgent' category. 
The admission of a patient may be delayed for a period exceeding 2 weeks in cases of elective or minor surgery. As at 22nd February 1971, the number of these patients awaiting admission to the Hospital was 1 ,469. 
As regards the last part of your question, no patient is deferred if he requires emergency admission for urgent medical reasons. A bed would always be available for any patient requiring immediate admission in such circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is extremely difficult to estimate the prevalence of alcoholism in Australia because of divergencies of definition among the various States. Estimates vary from a figure of 165,000 (given by  Mr H.  M. Pritchard of the Economics Department, University of Sydney and contained in a paper read to the 29th International Congress on Alcoholism and Drugs of Dependence held in Sydney, February 1970), to an estimated 258,000 given by the alcoholism clinic, St Vincents Hospital, Melbourne. The clinic found that of these approximately 215,000 were men and approximately 43,000 women which would indicate that about 5 per cent of men and about 1 per cent of women in Australia suffer from alcoholism. 
No reliable estimate is available regarding direct costs to the community resulting from alcoholism. As regards the indirect costs, the value of alcohol induced mortality, morbidity and debility was roughly estimated for the year 1965 by  Mr H.  M. Pritchard, in the paper mentioned in (1) above at about $100m. 
The Commonwealth is directly assisting research into alcoholism by means of research grants made by the National Health and Medical Research Council. No direct research into alcoholism is conducted by the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities. 
The following grants have been awarded by the Council since 1968: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made to the hospital benefits organisations by their members in 1969-70, including Special Account, amounted to $124,266,469. (This is a preliminary figure and is subject to confirmation.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the June 1969 conference of Commonwealth and State Health Ministers it was agreed that Ministers would recommend to their Governments that consideration be given to the adoption of a National Health and Medical Research Council recommendation that the label 'Wanting, cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' should be placed on cigarette packets. 
The Commonwealth considers that there should be uniformity in such labelling and is prepared  to  introduce legislation  for  the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory when all States agree to introduce similar legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made to the medical benefits organisations by their members in 1969-70 including Special Account, amounted to $78,723,963. (This is a preliminary figure and is subject to confirmation.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An estimate has not been madeas to the extent operating expenses of medical benefits organisations have varied as a result of the new Medical Benefits Plan introduced on 1st July 1970. Apart from certain extra costs associated with the transitional period, it is not expected that there will be any increase in administrative costs of medical benefits organisations arising fromthe new plan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Particulars of the actual Fund benefit and Commonwealth benefit paid for pathology services in New South Wales during the December quarters of 1968, 1969 and 1970 are not available. 
It is proposed that as the A.D.P. processing of medical benefits claims is extended, statistics such as those requested may become available in future years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However the officers concerned are employed by the Victorian State Department of Health and not my Department. 
I have no information as to the results of these tests. 
While my Department maintains interest and constantly reviews developments in air pollution control it does not undertake testing of items which are designed to lower pollution problems caused by motor cars. 
Yes. The Australian Research Grants Committee this year made a grant of $5,520 to  Dr N.  W. Cant, of Macquarie University, for research into this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to  (3)  I am aware of recent newspaper reports dealing with pollution of the Murray River. 
No. 
No. 
An Office of the Environment has been created in the Prime Minister's Department and an approach has been made to the States for the establishment of a National Advisory Council. 
This legislation is being studied by my Department It should be borne in mind that the Commonwealth's jurisdiction in this matter does not extend beyond the Commonwealth Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 4 March 1970 in a statement made in the HouseI said "The Government has decided to adopt Recommendation 7 by the Nimmo Committee that three hospital benefit tables - related to standard, intermediate and private ward charges - be operated in each State. This decision requires no legislative action and will be implemented as an administrative measure over an appropriate phasing-in period'. By referring to a four schedule structure 1 assume the honourable member hasin mind a fourth benefit table to cover the situation where private hospitals charge fees higher than those charged by public hospitals for private rooms. Where such circumstances exist any proposals by benefit organisations for a fourth benefit table would be given careful consideration. 
and (3) As I announced on 4 March 1970 the restructuring of hospital benefit tables will be undertaken administratively. The most appropriate time for making such changes is when public hospital fees in the respective States are being increased. South Australia is the only State in which a new four table benefit structure has been introduced by registered hospital benefits organisations. However, it is expected that a restructuring on similar lines will be proposed by organisations in other States when alterations are next made to public hospital fees in their States. 
In some instances this is the current position. However, once organisations have restructured their tables on a three or four table basis, then provided reasonable advance notice is given of increases in hospital fees, increased benefits can be made available from the date fees are altered and thus provide adequate protection to contributors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. The use of these pest strips is not banned in any country. Labelling of these strips is controlled in the United States, Canada, Holland and Australia. 
A considerable amount of experimental work has been performed to test the safety of Dichlorvos.  In order to  perform this work under environmental conditions which are  as  near as possible to natural living conditions, tests have been performed in bouses, huts, hospital wards, factories and aircraft. The following are some of the published references of work indicating that the release of Dichlorvos vapour into various types of environments is safe: 
Cavagna, G., Locati, G. and Vigliani, E. C: Clinical Effects of Exposure to DDVP (Vapona) Insecticide in Hospital Wards, Arch. Environ. Health, 19:112-123, (July) 1969 
Durham, W.F. et al, Toxilogical Studies ofO,O-Dimethyi-2-2-Dichlorovinyl Phosphate (DDVP) in Tobacco Warehouses, A.M.A. Arch. Ind. Health, 20, 202-210, September 1959. 
Funckes, A. J. et al, Initial Field Studies in Upper Volta with Dichlorvos Residual Fumigant as a Malarial Eradication Technique. 3. Toxicological Evaluation, Bull. Wld. Hlth. Org. 29:243-246, 1963. 
Gratz, N. G. et al, A Village Scale Trial with Dichlorvos as a Residual Fumigant Insecticide in Southern Nigeria, Bull. Wld. Hlth. Org. 29 (2) : 251-270. 1963. 
Hayes, W. J., Jr, Safety of DDVP for the Disinfection of Aircraft, Bull. Wld. Hlth. Org. 24 : 629-633, 1961. 
Work has been performed in an Italian hospital in which some patients, exposed continuously to DDVP vapour in poorly ventilated rooms, developed depressed plasma cholinesterase levels. Some patients with liver damage who were included in the experiment did develop depressed plasma cholinesterase levels which lasted up to three weeks. The authors concluded that it is clinically harmless to use DDVP vapour strips in hospital wards. Similar works has been performed in other countries. 
Yes. 
and (8) The control of pesticides is the responsibility of the individual States, the Commonwealth having responsibility only for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The National Health and Medical Research Council, which advises Commonwealth and State governments on matters of a public health nature, seeks to attain uniformity in the legislation controlling poisonous substances by its recommendations concerning the scheduling of poisons. Before these recommendations are made extensive toxicological data is closely examined and it would be necessary for the manufacturer to provide evidence of safety acceptable to the Council. The National Health and Medical Research Council has made recommendations on the scheduling of dichlorvos as a poison (including labelling requirements) and is currently examining other aspects of the sale and use of dichlorvos. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information is in line with that provided for the years 1948 to 1969 supplied in answer to your Question No. 109 of 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the States Grants (Mental Institutions) Act 1955 an amount of $20m was made available on the basis of one-third of approved expenditure by the States for or in connection with the buildings or equipment of mental institutions. No time limit was imposed on the States' expenditure. The following are details of the States' allocations under this legislation and the years in which these allocations were finally taken up: 
1 am not aware that anything has been negotiated between the South Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association and the South Australian Government. I think that the honourable gentleman may be referring to the statement which I read in the Press made by the South Australian  President  of the Australian Medical Association in which he said that the South Australian branch of the AMA would be putting to a special meeting of the Federal Assembly of the AMA on 17th April that particular proposition. He also expressed a view about where things stood in relation to the statements that had been made previously by the Premier of South Australia in connection with getting the Prices Commission to look at medical fees. I think this is the situation which has probably led the honourable gentleman to the impression which he conveyed in his question. 
I think that I have already answered the second part of the honourable gentleman's question. Let me remind him of the events that took place. The previous Prime Minister called the Federal Executive of the Australian Medical Association and the presidents of the State branches to meet him in Canberra a couple of weeks ago. He put the Government's position to the AMA. As a result of that, the AMA undertook to consider its position. The Government is still waiting to hear from the Association in response to that. 
I would say firstly that the conduct of mental health institutions is a function of and a responsbility of the State governments. I will be glad to convey to my colleague in another place the particular points which the honourable member has raised. 
This matter has been raised by the New Zealand Government and is currently under consideration by the Australian Government. 
The committee to which the honourable gentleman refers, known as the Meyer Committee, has undertaken a great deal of work on this subject. This work has involved the director of the Committee and various members of it in visiting Europe, discussing the situation with governments and appropriate bodies in the countries concerned, obtaining information about the courses undertaken by immigrants with professional qualifications in the countries concerned, and then bringing that information back and making contact with the appropriate bodies in Australia. To list the particular trades and so on with which they have made progress and to outline the discussions that have taken place would involve an answer of such a length that it would probably be not acceptable to the House. I should be very glad to provide the honourable gentleman with detailed information. Insofar as the acceptance of the qualifications depends on registration under State law, the Commonwealth has no power except in its own 
Territories. All we can do is to aci as a catalyst to provide the State registration bodies in these fields with the necessary information. Sometimes it is quite valuable even to tell them what is done in other States, let alone what is done in other countries. But I make the point thai the final decision rests with them and noi with the Commonwealth Government.  I  do recognise the importance of making all the progress we can in this field. 
I am not personally aware of any of the reductions which the honourable member suggested have taken place but I will be glad to refer his question to my colleague in another place for a detailed reply. 
This matter was raised with me by the honourable gentleman while I was still Minister for Health. At that stage - 'and I am sure that the position is still the same, although I shall relay his question to my colleague - the position was that a great deal of trouble had been taken by my Department to consider the cuts that had necessarily to be made in the Northern Territory activities of the Department of Health as elsewhere to ensure that these should have no effect on the standards of essential health and medical services in the Territory. I give the honourable gentleman an absolute assurance that that was so. Some question about drugs was raised as a result of his representations. The matter was investigated and the suggestion was found to have no basis in fact. Essential drugs were as readily available in the Northern Territory as they had always been. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An analysis of the student population i". made once a year. At June 30th, 1970, 10,019 persons were studying in Australia under the Private Overseas Students Programme. (This 6gur, does not include 330 non-European students from Papua/New Guinea, most of whom are sponsored by the Administration of the Territory and ure not therefore 'private overseas students'.) 
Analysis by computer of details of the 10,019 private students is not yet available but the pattern would not differ significantly from the latest analysis available (for April 1969) except that the numbers from Malaysia and Singapore have increased. There were then 9,500 private overseas students in Australia (of whom 120 were European). Again the figures exclude students from Papua/New Guinea. 
Nationalities of students are not recorded for statistical purposes, but generally correspond wilh countries of last residence - see (b); 
The last places in which overseas students resided for 12 months or longer before becoming private students in Australia were: 
Types of courses being undertaken by these students were: 
I made the Government's attitude on this matter quite clear some weeks ago in answer to a question by the honourable member for La Trobe, and I personally have nothing to add to that answer. I will be glad to pass the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in another place to see if he has any comment to make. 
As the honourable member broadly implies, the Australian Government attaches great importance to the principle that students trained in Australia under both the private and public student schemes should, after training in Australia largely at the taxpayers' expense return to their own countries and make contributions to those countries. The honourable member has raised various points about the attitude of Canada to people in these circumstances. 1 will be glad to examine carefully the points he has made and consider whether it will be possible to do what he has asked. 
The  answer  to the honourable  member's question  is as follows: 
Australia has formal agreements involving provision of assisted passages, with the United Kingdom, Malta, The Netherlands, Italy, Germany (Federal Republic), Turkey and Yugoslavia. 
(a) In none of the Agreements mentioned above is any provision made regarding an annual intake of migrants from the country with which the Agreement is made. Annual immigration targets are determined year by year by the Australian Government and, where necessary, in consultation with the Government concerned. 
(i) The migrants selected under the Agreements cover a wide cross-section of employment classifications (skilled, semiskilled, unskilled) but in none of the Agreements are employment classifications stipulated. The migrants actually selected are in accordance with Australia's known labour demands as determined annually in consultation with the Department of Labour and National Service. 
None of the Agreements, except that with Turkey, has a provision defining age groups for assisted migrants. However, age groups form part of the eligibility criteria which have been established separately to give effect to the assisted passage programme under each Agreement. These vary slightly in certain programmes and also may be modified where special circumstances warrant it, but generally speaking the age groups which apply are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee has met formally as a full Committee on: 1969- 10 April, 3 June, 1 July, 28 August, 23 September, 23 October, 20 November 1970- 19 January, 27 February, 12 March, 9 April, 14 May, 18 June, 13 August, 10 September, 22 October, 19 November, 10 December 1971- 28 January, 17 February. 
The Committee met on 10 April and 28 August 1969, in Melbourne. On all other dates the Committee met in Canberra. 
Members of the Committee have also met separately with representatives of the professions. 
The professions concerned are: 
Members of this House will draw their own inferences from the text of the honourable gentleman's question. However, I will answer the specific points made by the honourable member. I would like to make it clear, because of inaccurate Press reports, that there has been no questioning by the Japanese Government to the Australian Government of our immigration policy. In the light of the question that was asked by the honourable gentleman I point out that the Australian Government has not thought it necessary to raise the question of Japanese immigration policies with the Japanese Government. 
When the mission to which the honourable gentleman referred was in Australia recently, and as I indicated the other day this was a very large economic mission, we provided to members of it a brochure which set out the basis on which people of any nationality - not only nonEuropeans - and from any country can enter Australia on a temporary basis for employment. This was not questioned by the mission. 1 would like to make this clear because there have been reports to the contrary. Again I emphasise that the rules relating to the granting of visas for temporary employment relate equally to Europeans and non-Europeans. 
In relation to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I think all I can say is that our immigration policy does not, of course, differentiate between the nationals of countries according to the amount of trade that those countries do with us. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to satisfying other requirements a European alien whether he has professional qualifications or not may be granted Australian citizenship earlier than the completion of five years residence in Australia in the following circumstances - 
a person who can read and write English proficiently may be granted citizenship after three years residence; 
the spouse, widow or widower of an Australian citizen may be granted citizenship without being required to spend any specified period of residence here; 
a person whois married may be granted citizenship at the same time as his or her spouse provided the latter has lived here for the period required by the law, i.e. three or five years as is appropriate to the particular case; 
a member of the Permanent Forces of the Commonwealth may be granted citizenship after three months service; 
a person who has lived in another Commonwealth country or who has had service under the Government of such a country, may be allowed to count such residence or service towards the total qualifying period of residence required for citizenship. The minimum period which must be spent in Australia is one year immediately prior to the grant of citizenship; 
children under the age of sixteen years normally acquire Australian citizenship by inclusion on the certificates of citizenship granted to their responsible parents; 
minors over the age of sixteen years may become Australian citizens after two years residence provided their responsible parents, if resident in Australia, give their written consent. 
Statistics maintained by the Department of Immigration record only the occupation claimed at the time of application for citizenship. 'Occupation' is not shown on Certificates of Citizenship and no attempt is made to establish whether claimed professional qualifications were obtained in Australia, as some were, or overseas. Statistics showing occupation are not recorded by year of arrival and information is not available to show the number of persons with professional qualifications who arrived during the past five years, who have become Australian citizens by naturalization. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Visas stamped in the passports of persons travelling to Australia must include information for the examining officers to whom passports are presented on arrival; and for reasons of limited space some information has to be cosveyed by a series of letters. The letter 'Z' is used for statistical purposes only and denotes a person granted a visa for entry to Australia as a migrant under policy relating to non-European immigration adopted by the Government in March 1966. The examining officer at the point of arrival notes this letter on the Incoming Passenger Card which is completed by the passenger and which goes to the Commonwealth Statistician for compilation of statistics. 
No. The then Minister in announcing the Government's revised policy in this House on 9th March 1966 stated: 
Applications for entry by well qualified peope wishing to settle in Australia will be considered on the basis of their suitability as settlers, their ability to integrate readily, and their possession of qualifications which are in fact positively useful to Australia.' The announcement also stated: 
Examples of those who, under the new decision, will be admitted in numbers greater than previously are: persons with specialised technical skills for appointments for which local residents are not available; persons of high attainment in the arts and sciences, or of prominent achievement in other ways; persons nominated by responsible authorities or institutions for specific important professional appointments, which otherwise would remain unfilled; executives, technicians, and other specialists who have spent substantial periods in Australiafor exemple, with the branches here of large Asian companies - and who have qualifications or experience in positive demand here; businessmen who in their own countries have been engaged in substantial international trading and would be able to carry on such trade from Australia; persons who have been of particular and lasting help to Australia's interests abroad in trade, or in other ways; and persons why by former residence in Australia or by association with us have demonstrated an interest in or identification with Australia that should make their future residence here feasible. 
In October 1967 the third example was amended to read: 
Persons eligible to practise in. professions in which they may be readily absorbed. 
From March 1966 to 31st December 1970 a total of 1158 persons, with 2058 dependants arrived in Australia with visas endorsed with letter 'Z'. 
Separate statistics, which would enable a specific answer to be given, have not been maintained. Since the normal residential requirement for citizenship by naturalisation is 5 years, few, if any, of the persons concerned would yet be eligi ble for the grant of citizenship. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The normal residence requirements for naturalisation as defined in the answer to the honourable member's question No. 3107, apply to Asians as to others, except in relation to persons admitted under the Government's decision of March 1966 as quoted in the answer given to the honourable member's question No. 3108. 
Before answering the question, I make the point that I remember that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition asked a question in which he clearly referred to alleged differences of opinion in the Government parties on the off-shore mineral business, and you took no exception to that whatsoever. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the House would take the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  more seriously if he himself were not applying both a double and an impracticable standard on this issue. He makes great play, as do many others, of the fact that everybody else in the community has to go to arbitration and justify their claims for increased wages and that doctors do not have to do this. Will the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is to follow faim on the Labor side in this debate, tell the House the Opposition's attitude to the fact that, as I understand it, 40 per cent of the Australian work force is operating on the basis of remuneration other than that determined in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
In other words, 40 per cent of the Australian work force is enjoying over award payments, many of which have been achieved as a result of militant strike action, without a word being said by honourable gentlemen opposite. Therefore, one must assume that they tacitly support such a situation. What hypocrisy it is to criticise the medical profession from that point of view. I do not support the medical profession in everything that it does, but it is hypocrisy to criticise it from that point of view when more than 40 per cent of Australian workers are being remunerated on a basis other than the one which they have justified before the Arbitration Commission. That is the situation. 
The Leader of the Opposition, as usual, has treated this Parliament with contempt. He had a long prepared statement which he had to read quickly in order to complete it in the time allotted to him. He has come into the chamber and read the statement so quickly that even if people had wanted to comprehend it, it would have been difficulty for them to do so. In other words, it has been an exercise mainly for the Press. Before I refer to the argument of the Leader of the Opposition and to the justification which he has given for raising this matter this morning, let me remind the House that fae has raised this matter this morning when the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  is on behalf of the Government, meeting in Sydney, the leaders of the Australian Medical Association for crucial discussions on which the whole viability and future of the health scheme might depend. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition believe that the raising of this matter in a party political sense and in a highly provocative and highly antagonistic sense so far as the medical profession is concerned will contribute towards the objectives which the Minister for Health and the Government seek, that is, to continue a viable health scheme? Of course he does not. He knows that the raising of this matter in the House this morning will have exactly the opposite effect. That is why the Opposition has chosen to raise the matter this morning of all times, although this question about doctors fees arose more than a week ago. The Opposition has raised some pettifogging matters of public importance which could have been replaced by the matter which is being raised this morning. The Opposition chose to raise the matter today - the very day on which the Minister for Health, on behalf of the Government, is undertaking this difficult task. The Leader of the Opposition himself acknowledged that it is a difficult task when he referred to the characteristics of the Australian Medical Association and to the strength of the AMA. It is a difficult task because it concerns all the patients and all the contributors to the health insurance scheme in Australia. 
 I am expressing, I hope, pretty strong views about the motives behind the raising of this matter at this time. This is typical of the Australian Labor Party in its attempt to be the alternative government. But let me continue because the basic argument advanced by the Leader of the Opposition is an invalid one. If his initial basic argument is untrue, his whole argument falls to the ground. He based his whole argument on the fact that the Government conceded, before it entered into negotiations, that an increase of 15 per cent in general practitioners fees is round about the mark. On Tuesday of this week the Leader of the Opposition himself asked the Prime Minister  Mr McMahon),  the head of the Government, a question regarding this matter. The Prime Minister, amongst other things, said: 
Subsequently I was informed that after a meeting on Sunday they had agreed to the Government's request, the effect of this being that the cost, instead of being $32m, as an across the board increase would have involved, would now be about $10m on their percentage increase. This figure of $1Om as being the maximum, as advised to me by the Department of Health, has not been agreed to by the Government nor have the various percentage increases that have been pro posed for the various States and in special circumstances by the AMA been agreed to. 
I repeat: The Leader of the Opposition has based his whole argument on the fact that the Government has agreed to what the AMA has now announced should be the appropriate increase in fees for general practitioners. In response to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, the Prime Minister has replied categorically on behalf of the Government that that is not true. What is more, the Prime Minister went on to say to the Leader of the Opposition that this was one of the matters about which our colleague, the Minister for Health, was going to see the AMA today. I submit that t'-.at basic argument not being correct, the Government has no real case to answer in this matter. I should have thought that as negotiations were to take place, the appropriate, honourable Lod responsible thing to do would have been for the Opposition to reserve its judgment until it saw what came out of the negotiations; until it saw what the Government's decisions were, based on those negotiations, the Prime Minister having foreshadowed that the Government had not agreed to the increase of 15 per cent as proposed by the AMA and having said that this was a matter which would be the subject of negotiations with the AMA. 
Sitting  suspended  from 12.30 to 3  p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended, I had made 2 basic points about this matter of public importance which the Opposition has proposed for discussion. The first point was this: In bringing forward this matter of doctors' fees and medical benefits for discussion at this time, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has based the whole of his case on the fact that the Government had conceded to general practitioners an increase of 15 per cent in their fees. This morning I quoted from an answer given by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in response to a question asked of him. The Prime Minister made it perfectly clear that it is not true that the Government has conceded that increase. The negotiations and discussions which are taking place today between the Executive of the Australian Medical Association and the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  are directed towards this very point. It is not true that the Government at this stage is satisfied that the increase of IS per cent, or whatever the proposed percentages are for the various States, is appropriate and is acceptable to it. Therefore, the whole of the case made by the Leader of the Opposition falls to the ground. 
The second point that I made concerned the motives of the Opposition in bringing this discussion forward on the very day on which the Minister for Health has gone to Sydney to undertake a difficult task in the interests of Australia and of contributors to the health scheme. It seems to me that the action of the Opposition today accords with its lack of responsibility. In the few minutes available to me, I wish to indicate why the Opposition has brought this matter on for discussion today rather than wait for the logical time to propose it which would be after the Minister has engaged in negotiations and the Government has made its decision. After all, the fees have not risen yet. They are not going to rise - if they are to rise - until 1st July. So, time is still available to discuss this matter. Why has the Opposition proposed this matter for discussion today? I believe that there is one main reason for its action. This is that the Opposition is desperately worried because the health scheme that the Government has introduced has worked so well in the protection of Australians against the cost of illness. The Opposition is worried that the success of this scheme will continue. 
The Opposition is worried also because its members, aided and abetted by the Press, have made a deal of political mileage out of misleading the Australian public with respect to the Opposition's so called free health scheme. The Opposition is terrified that in the context of the success of the Government's scheme the public will discover that, for all practical purposes, the Opposition's scheme is not free at all. There is no better atmosphere than the present one in which to drive this point home. The public is aware in the current atmosphere that the medical profession is not exactly an easy profession with which to deal. I remind the public that the scheme proposed by the Opposition as a free health scheme is dependent entirely on the medical profession in Australia agreeing to charge 85 per cent of its common fee. If the doctors do not agree to charge 85 per cent of the common fee the patients will have to pay 15 per cent of the doctors' bills however large, whereas under the present scheme, particularly in relation to the larger medical bills, at the point at which the patient really needs protection the patient pays no more than $5 for a medical service when the doctor charges the common fee. Under the Labor Party's scheme if the doctor charges more than the common fee the patients will have to pay more than 15 per cent. 
I ask the House to consider, I ask the country to consider, and 1 ask the Press of this country, which has forborn from adequately probing and analysing the Labor Party scheme, to consider, with recent events and attitudes on the part of the medical profession fresh in their minds, how many medical practitioners of Australia will agree to charge 85 per cent of the present common fee. The Labor Party is terrified that the public will realise just how much of a confidence trick the Labor Party's scheme is. Members opposite know that the Government's scheme has worked, and if we are successful in our discussions and negotiations with the doctors it will continue to work, and it will continue to work well. This is why I believe members opposite have raised this matter of public importance today, on the very day in which the Minister for Health is going forward to negotiate with the medical profession. Members opposite hope that by this means they will wreck the negotiations. 
I am not aware of the latest position of this matter. I will refer the question to my colleague, the Minister for Health, and ask him to let the honourable member have a detailed reply. 1 could perhaps make these points: The first is that we have committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which is an expert body set up to advise both the Commonwealth and the States on these matters. The question of the toxicity of pesticides is kept under constant review by one of the committees. I know that very regularly it has under review the question of DDT, but I know also that it has not been prepared up to now to take the same view about DDT as some similar bodies have taken overseas. With due respect to the honourable gentleman, I think we have enough expertise in this country to make our own judgments about matters of this sort without being unduly swayed by what happens in other countries. By all means we should be aware of what happens in other countries, and these committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council are aware of and are in constant touch with equivalent bodies overseas. But I think that finally the decision should be made in Australia by our own people. I need hardly add that any final decision to do something about this by legislation would be a matter for the State governments and not the Commonwealth Government. 
Any differentiations which are made depend on the basic principle followed by the Government, which, is that the period of residence for citizenship in law should be relevant to the period likely to be needed to achieve a reasonable degree of integration into our society. As honourable members would be aware, .there is a fairly: wide variation in the conditions and periods for citizenship. The subject to which the honourable member refers relates to the non-European policy of 1966, which requires a 5-year period of residence for naturalisation. If he recalls the debate of 1966, in which he took part, he will realise that this was very much a part of the policy that was accepted by the House. It was a part of the Government's assurances which were asked for by the Opposition that the policy would be administered responsibly and carefully. My predecessors and I have administered it in the spirit of that assurance, and this process is still going on. The Government's view is that too short a period has elapsed for it to make a judgment that the period of residence before naturalisation should at this stage be shortened. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Discussions were held on 21st January 1969, 17th February 1969 and 9th July 1969. Discussions have not been held since July 1969 pending the outcome of an overall examination by the Australian Medical Association, in consultation with Commonwealth officers, of the basis on which medical services are being provided for pensioners. 
Government Policy on Foreign Affairs  (Question  No.  2983) 
I have been aware for some time that an Australian Medical Association study group has been working on possible schemes to replace the pensioner medical service as it exists. As far as I am aware, the AMA has not reached the stage at which it has finalised its own conclusions on this let alone present them to the Government. Until such time as it does so, I do not think that I can make any useful comment except to say to the honourable gentleman that the Government certainly would not permit the replacement of the pensioner medical service with any other scheme which was to the disadvantage of pensioners. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department has no statistical record of the male and female content of applications for admission to Australia. Many applicants do not proceed with their applications and such statistics would serve little purpose. I am not therefore able to provide the honourable member with the precise information he has asked for. 
The Bureau of Census and Statistics does maintain statistics of settler arrivals by sex and nationality and by sex and country of last residence. "For the calendar year 1970 these figures are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following answer's have . been prepared , in consultation with the Attorney-General's Department which is responsible for the administration' of the Crimes Act. 
It is the intention, that naturalised persons should have the same status as persons who become citizens at birth. 
, (3) and (4) The provisions of the Crimes Act are expressed to apply to all persons born outside Australia and not solely naturalised., persons. 
There has been .no indication of resentment by many migrants in relation to the provisions in question. 
and (7) See the answer given- by the AttorneyGeneral to Question No. ..1791 (Hansard of 30 October, 1970. page 3158). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The contribution made by the British Government is stg 150,000 per annum. At the current exchange rate, this would be the. equivalent of approximately $A5.8 million, over 'the period since 1952. Taking account of variations in the exchange rate, the actual equivalent of the British contribution would be approximately $A6.6 million: 
Yes. 
Any such initiative would be matter for the British Government. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The meeting on 2nd  April  1970 involved joint discussions between Commonwealth officers and officers representing  all  States. 
Following that meeting, Commonwealth officers had discussions with officers of individual States on the following dates: 29th April 1970- Tasmania; 1st May 1970- Victoria; 6th May 1970- South Australia; 7th May 1970- Western Australia; 14th May 1970- Queensland; 15th May 1970- New South Wales. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
High doses of 2,4,5T have caused teratogenic effects in animals in laboratory experiments in the - United States of America. Reports of teratogenic effects in humans due to 2,4,5T have not been confirmed. 
Yes. However, it has been shown that impurities in the product known as dioxins have been the contributing factor. Australian-produced 2.4,5T contains less than 1 ppm dioxin impurities whilst overseas formulations contain 20-30 ppm. 
Yes. 

 Dr J. Verrett's testimony to the United States Senate Sub-committee on Energy, National Resources and the Environment on 15th April 1970 indicates that chloracne has occurred in the United States of America, the Netherlands, Germany and Japan in association with the manufacture of chlorinated compounds similar to ones occurring during the production of 2,4,5T. 
(a) Not to my. knowledge, (b) Reports of 2.4.5T causing the death of many small mammals, including pigs, poultry and ducks, and the paralysis of many birds, have not been confirmed. 
I am not aware of any restrictions applying to the quantity of 2,4,5T manufactured in Australia. 
and (8) Dumping of 2,4,5T in Australia is a matter for the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
In Australia, 2,4,5T is mainly used by Government and semi-Government authorities who are well aware of the precautions to be taken when using this compound. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council at its Seventieth Session in April 1970 recommended that the use of 2,4,5T should not be permitted in areas where water contamination could occur. In addition, Council recommended precautionary measures for persons engaged in the manufacture and use of 2,4,5T and that special precautions should be taken to avoid the exposure of women, especially those in the child-bearing age group to 2,4,5T. 
All pesticides, including 2,4,5T, are kept under a continuing review by expert committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department very rarely receives applications for entry as migrants from such persons; and the circumstances of each case would need to be studied; but in general where polygamous marriages are still continuing the parties would not be eligible for entry to Australia as migrants. 
and (4) As the information sought would involve legal opinion, it is not possible to provide answers to these questions. 
When a person has been lawfully admitted to Australia as a migrant and applies for citizenship after completing the normal period of residence, the applicant's marital status is . not in itself relevant to the application. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The contribution made by the British Government is stgl50,000 p.a. At the current exchange rate, this would be the equivalent of approximately $A5.8m over the period since 1952. Taking account of variations in the exchange rate, the actual equivalent of the British contribution would be approximately $A6.6m. 
Yes. 
Any such initiative would be a matter for the British Government. 
The House will be indebted to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for placing on record what we have suspected for some time, namely, that a Labor government will nationalise the hospital system of Australia. There is no question of misquoting him. He said: A Labor government will nationalise the hospital system of Australia'. This is something which, under the Constitution, has been since Federation a State government responsibility. It was left in the Constitution for very good reasons, among them being the fact that the State governments are much closer to the felt needs of the community than is the Commonwealth Government located in Canberra. Indeed, in many cases hospitals in Australia are run by local authorities or independent hospital boards for the same reason. But the Leader of the Opposition has put on notice that a Labor government will nationalise the hospital system and centralise it under bureaucrats in Canberra. It is just as well to have it on the record and we can treat it on that basis. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  says: 'Like immigration?' The immigration power was given to the Commonwealth at Federation for very good reasons, and the same considerations to which I am referring - the lack of contact at the local level, and the creation of a hospital system which is malleable and adjustable to individual circumstances and the felt needs of particular communities of people and particular areas - was one of the principal reasons why the hospital power was left with the States. 
A Labor government would take that away. The Leader of the Opposition has just told us that. What is the reason for this drastic change which the alternative government of Australia proposes? What justification has he given for this drastic action by a Commonwealth government, this departure from a situation which has worked since Federation? The Leader of the Opposition said that he was quoting figures supplied by me and by other people. Of course, what he has done is to misquote figures. He has not produced figures where they did not suit him. He has quoted figures out of context to prove a point which could not be made if they were quoted in context. I take as an example of this process the question which he asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  the other day. I do not know why he asked it of the Prime Minister who, in all reason, could not be expected to have at his fingertips the detailed answers to questions on statistics in the hospital field which were quoted at him. One of the legs on which this question rested was this: 
Moreover, have the States complained that the pensioner hospital benefit, which met 66 per cent of the actual cost of  a  hospital bed  in  1954, now meets less than 20 per cent of that cost? 
In fact, the ture situation was not the one indicated by the Leader of the Opposition. The pensioner hospital benefit represented not 66 per cent but 16 per cent of the actual cost of a hospital bed in 1954. The second part of his statement that it now meets less than 20 per cent of that cost is true. It is in fact slightly higher than the 16 per cent that it represented in 1954. I cite this to demonstrate the way in which the honourable gentleman misquotes figures in relation to health matters. The terms of the proposal for a discussion of a matter of public importance proposed by him are: 
The rise in hospital fees and the decline in Commonwealth assistance to hospitals and their patients. 
Let me tackle the main point on which the Opposition is attacking the Government, namely, the decline in Commonwealth assistance to hospitals. In fact, this is a complete misstatement. If we take the total cost of financing hospitals according to the latest figures available - that is, up till 1968  -  we find that the Commonwealth percentage of the cost of financing hospitals was 17.7 per cent in 1964, 17.2 per cent in 1965, 16.2 per cent in 1966, 16.2 per cent in 1967 and 17 per cent in 1968. In other words, in those 4 years it has varied from 17.7 per cent in 1964 to 17 per cent in 1968. 
I think it would be a fair statement in those circumstances to say that the alleged decline in Commonwealth assistance has not taken place. In fact the assistance has remained static. 
This is a percentage figure. The honourable member for Prospect asks: 'What about the situation since 1968?' I cannot give precise figures in relation to this but I can give the House a lead to what has happened. But before doing so I want to go back to another example of misquotation by the Leader of the Opposition. Actually, it is not a misquotation because what he said was true. He said that the Commonwealth hospital benefit for insured patients has remained static at $2 a day since 1958. That is an accurate statement. But what the honourable gentleman did not say is that this is not the only source from which Commonwealth benefits flow to the patients and into the hospital system. What the Commonwealth Government has chosen to do in relation to the hospital system and in relatation to assistance to hospital patients when it has had additional finance available for this purpose, has been not to increase the individual hospital benefit for insured patients but to liberalise its payments to special account patients. 
In other words the Commonwealth has decided quite deliberately over the years to help those people who require hospital treatment and who are most in need. I refer to those people who, prior to the changes which came into force on 1st January 1969, were limited by the excluding rules of funds to so many days hospitalisation in a year at the full insured rate and the people who were excluded on the grounds of pre-existing ailments. We have quite deliberately decided to direct the available assistance to those most in need. Is the Opposition against that principle? Should we provide a little assistance, perhaps an increase of$3 or $2 a day, to the great mass of people to whom payment for hospitalisation is not a tremendous hardship or should we direct the available finance to helping those people in greatest need? As I said, this has been the principle on which this Government has worked. We do not retreat from it. We are proud of it. We believe that the available Commonwealth assistance should be used in this way. 
The honourable member for Prospect asked what has happened since 1968. I cannot tell him precisely the Commonwealth's proportion since 1968 but I can tell him what has happened to the special account since the Government's reforms were introduced on 1st January 1969. In 1968 the payment by the Commonwealth through the special account was $4.5m; in 1969 it was $7.1m and in 1970 it was $16m, which is almost as much as the payment-- 
We are talking about the amount of Commonwealth finance flowing into the hospital system. Does the honourable gentleman claim that there has not been an increase in the finance flowing into the hospital system? Of course there has been. In 1971 the Commonwealth payment is expected to be $19.6m, and this amount will increase year by year. When the information is available I would expect that it would be reasonable to say that until the last financial year the Commonwealth's contribution in total - all the ways in which Commonwealth finance flows into the hospital system - has remained constant and has not declined as the honourable member has implied in this debate and which is taken to be his basic reason for proposing a drastic nationalisation of all hospitals in Australia. 
The fact is that there are 3 major sources of finance for hospitals. The first is State governments. The second is the Commonwealth Government and the third is patients' fees. The Commonwealth's percentage has remained static over the years. In other words, as the honourable member has so rightly said, hospital costs have increased; the Commonwealth has maintained its percentage contribution to the total cost of running hospitals. I have given the figures to prove this. What has happened? Why have hospitals been in the difficulties about which the honourable gentleman has spoken? If the honourable member cares to quote from the table in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, known as the Wedgwood Committee, which he has been so keen to quote from whenever it suited his purpose, he will see the answer. Generally speaking there has been a steady decline over the years in the proportion of hospital costs met by State governments. There has also been a steady increase in the proportion of hospital costs met through patients' fees, but this is as a result of a decision by State governments, which, after all, have the constitutional authority. 
In circumstances in which the Commonwealth's contribution has remained static most of the States have chosen to reduce steadily their contributions to hospitals and have arranged for patients to make up the difference by increasing the fees. To point the finger at the Commonwealth Government in these circumstances is nonsense. I suppose that the honourable member would say that the State governments cannot afford it but Queensland's contribution has not declined. It is still much the same - very much higher than in any other State - as it was in 1964. If that State has the financial capacity to sustain its share of increasing hospital costs why do the other States not have a similar capacity? I do not know the reason for this. I am just making the point that the honourable member is pointing the finger at the Commonwealth for this situation when the Commonwealth has sustained progressively year by year its proportion of the total running costs of hospitals. 
It is true that the reduced immigration programme for this year will provide an opportunity, as I said in my statement on the size of the programme, to extend and develop our welfare and education activities amongst migrants. I point out to the honourable gentleman that already a considerable amount has been done in this field. In the State branches of my Department there are social workers who look after the interests of migrants, and there are translator and interpreter services provided. This applies also in some of the major regional centres. The Government also pays for social workers in community organisations which work amongst the migrants. This has proved a very successful scheme since its introduction. There is also the Good Neighbour Council which employs social workers who are paid by the Government. There are also contact workers in that movement who work extensively amongst migrants throughout Australia. A great deal of care is taken to see that, where possible, these activities are concentrated in areas of greater migrant concentration. But I think it is true to say, in the light of the honourable gentleman's question, that the reduced size of the programme will enable the activities of all these organisations and people to be more effective and more concentrated and to achieve more. 
In relation to all except the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, T would refer him to my statement in which I set out quite clearly the reasons for the Government's decision. I think it would be unduly trespassing on question time in the House for me to repeat them, lt is not a very long statement and indeed, if th Opposition had not adopted a certain attitude, I would have read it in the House. The Opposition adopted the policy of refusing leave to make any statements in the House and I had to make my statement outside. But broadly the Government's reasons were set out in my statement which I have in front of me. I said: 
The continuing economic buoyancy in Europe and other factors which influence migration make the prospects for obtaining suitable migrants during 1971-72 less favourable than in the immediate past, if we insist, as we must, on maintaining an acceptable standard of selection and a reasonable national balance in the programme. 
That was the first reason. I also pointed out the second reason which I will read to the honourable gentleman. I stated: 
The Government is pursuing in co-operation with the State governments a declared policy of restraint in public spending. To set against the many benefits of immigration there are costs in education, housing and transport which are real factors for State governments even though the cost of immigration itself is a minor element in total Commonwealth expenditure. 
Other points were made in this statement. That broadly answers the honourable gentleman's question as to the reasons for the Government's decision. As I say, he could have got them from the statement itself. 
In relation to the latter part of the honourable gentleman's question, that is as to where savings in costs will be made, what countries will be involved and so on, the final details have not been worked out, but I. am in a position to say to the honourable  gentleman that broadly there will be a proportionate percentage cut across the board from all the source countries from which we take migrants. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to tha honourable member's question: 
and (2) A survey of doctors' fees in 1970 showed the following most common fees in each State for these services: 
Separate figures are not available for tho Australian Capita) Territory or the Northern Territory. 
The following information has been extracted from claims processed by the Department during the quarters ended 31 December 1969 and 31 December 1970: (a) Fund benefit payments in quarter - 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
39. 
52. (3) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have not studied the report mentioned but I am aware of some work which has been conducted by  Dr Jervis  and others concerning mercury. 
I am not aware of a comparable analysis being undertaken in Australia. However, analyses of certain foodstuffs for the presence of mercury and other metallic contaminants have been conducted over a number of years at both State and Commonwealth levels. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council through its expert committees is aware of the possibility of the occurrence of mercury residues and continues to keep the matter under review. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following, answer to the honourable member's question. 
The highest and lowest contribution rates charged in each State by registered medical benefits organisations for single and family cover are shown in the following table: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition, my predecessor stated in the 
House on 16th February that information obtained from the medical benefit funds revealed that the total payments to doctors by insured patients had increased in the December quarter of 1970 by more than 20 per cent compared with the figure for the December quarter of 1969. 
Information is not available of the percentage increase in incomes for the groups referred to by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The teams concerned were Rhodesian teams. Authority to enter Australia was refused under the terms of the Security Council Resolutions on Rhodesia. 
From  time to time there have been inquiries made by Australian sporting organisations concerning the possible admission of teams for international competition here. One example was an inquiry in 1967 concerning the possible entry of a table tennis team from North Vietnam. The Australian table tennis organisation was informed that the grant of visas to a team from North Vietnam could not be guaranteed. No applications were lodged. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested is not normally kept by my Department; however, following the honourable member's question, the various State Authorities were requested to supply the relevant details. These authorities have now supplied the following information relating to mental health institutions in their respective States. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The word 'training' was taken to mean basic general training. Where relating to State nursing activities, the information has been provided by the various State authorities. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not possible to supply the information at the  dates requested by the  honourable Member. However, the following tables set out available information concerning the number of contributors enrolled in health insurance organisations through the Subsidised Medical Services Scheme. These figures include those persons eligible for assistance under the Scheme by virtue of being in receipt of unemployment, sickness or special benefits, as well as members of low income families. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Yes. 
to  (5)  The National Health Act limits the provision of pharmaceutical benefits to drugs and medicinal preparations. The question of extending the Act to include medical apparatus or appliances, such as artificial limbs and surgical aids, has been given consideration from time to time, along with the claims for other medical apparatus such as artificial kidney machines for home dialysis and implantable heart pacemakers. After due consideration, it has been decided, at this stage, not to extend the present scheme to provide for these items. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The names of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations which have been granted registration in more than one State are: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Referral of a patient by a general practitioner to a specialist has been a long established practice within the medical profession. 
When the new Medical Benefits Scheme was introduced on 1st July 1970, provision was made for differential benefits for over 300 medical services which may be rendered either by a general practitioner or specialist. The new Scheme therefore recognised the fee charging policy of the medical profession and provided appropriate  levels  of benets. 
In view of the large number of services involved and in the interest of all parties, including patients and general practitioners, it was considered that a stricter referral system should be introduced. The formal Notice of Referral is part of the system. 
The public benefits from the system is directly related to the purpose for which it was introduced. In general, it is considered that the interest of patients and doctors are best served by the system of referral. Furthermore, it facilitates the control of Commonwealth expenditure. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. However, approval has been confined to the Roche brand (Larodopa) of L-Dopa tablets (500 mg.) at present. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee recommended listing of L-Dopa as a Pharmaceutical benefit. The Roche brand of the drug was made available as a benefit from 1st April. 1971, on authority of the Commonwealth Director of Health in each State and Territory, for the treatment of Parkinson's Disease. 
Not applicable. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. A number of tests in the S.M.A. 12/60 profile attract combined benefits of $4.00 in South Australia. The combined benefit for item 1276 (chemical analysis of blood or serum, five or more tests performed simultaneously on a single specimen on one multi-channel analyser) is $12.00 in New South Wales and $13.00 in other States. 
and (4) This information is not available to my Department 
The matter of items and common fees for autmated multi-channel pathology equipment was referred to the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee for advice. The Committee has made recommendations which are currently under consideration. 
-The  Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourables member's question: 
The Medical Benefits Scheme was introduced to provide financial assistance towards meeting the cost of medical services rendered by qualified medical practitioners to members of registered medical benefits organisations. 
Section 4(4) of the National Health Act specifically precludes the payment of Commonwealth benefit for a professional attendance at which an examination of the patient's eyes is made in consequence of which spectacle lenses are prescribed. This provision applies even though the prescription of spectacle lenses is incidental to the main purpose of the consultation and irrespective of whether or not the doctor is a specialist. 
The decision to preclude payment of Commonwealth medical benefit in the above circumstances was made to ensure that the Medical Benefits Scheme does not discriminate against allied professions such as optometry. By this exclusion the patient is in the same position whether the spectacles are prescribed by an ophthalmologist or by an optometrist. 
This matter was the subject of considerable discussion in both Houses of Parliament last year during the debate on the National Health Bill, as a result of which the Parliament decided to make no change in the situation. 
Yes. 
The nature of the service for which the health insurance organisations provide an ancillary benefit and the conditions under which organisations pay, such benefits are matters for organisations management Committees to determine. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The amounts of Commonwealth and fund benefits payable for general anaesthesia are determined by reference to the type of anaesthetic administered and the amount of Commonwealth benefit payable for the specific operation or combination of operations for which the anaesthetic is administered. For the purposes of calculating the benefit payable for the anaesthesia service no account is taken of any benefit payable in respect of assistance at the operation. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (il) At present comparable estimates of  current  account expenditure on health services in Australia are only available for the 3 years 1960-61, 1963-64 and 1966-67. On the basis of these estimates (a) public and (b) private current account expenditure on health services expressed as a  percentage  of gross national product would be: 
Estimates of current account expenditure  on  health services in Australia are only available  in  respect of 1 of the last 5 years, namely 1966-67. According to the estimates in that year the requested figures were as follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Current ambulance transport charges in Sydney are $20 for the first five miles plus 50 cents per running mile theerafter. Pensioners are charged half-rates. Subscribers to the Central District Ambulance Service obtain free ambulance transport in New South Wales for an annual subscription of $5.00, and half-rates apply to pensioners and apprentices. 
There is no most common fee prescribed for a visit by a qualified nurse to a patient's home. The most common fee for a visit to a hospital by a doctor or a specialist varies from State to State as follows: 
 The Mnister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The actual (a) number and (b) percentage of contributors to registered medical benefits organisations who have not transferred to the new contribution table is not available. However, information supplied by organisations indicates that as at 31st December 1970 there were approximately 45,000 contributors, equivalent to 1.2 per cent of total membership, still insured under the previously established medical tables. 
I wish to point out that the 1970 amendments to the National Health Act required that the registration of medical benefits organisations was to be conditional on their rules stipulating, among other things, that: 
contributors, other than those who as at 30th June 1970 had paid contributions in advance for a period extending beyond 30th September 1970, could not retain their membership of the previously established medical benefits tables after 30th September 1970; and 
Where contributions had been paid in advance for a period extending beyond 30th September 1970, the contributors could if they so wished, retain their membership in the previously established medical benefits tables up to and including the date to which the contributions were paid. 
Accordingly, the last date to which a contributor can retain membership of a previously established medical benefits table is 30th June 1971. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Cyclamates are permitted in low calorie foods and foods intended for consumption by diabetics. Low calorie foods as defined by the National Health and Medical Research Council are foods having a restricted calorie content, and include - soft drinks, cordials, biscuits, bread substitutes, jams, sauces, soft drinks basis in powder or solid form, jelly crystals - tablets - cubes and mix, fruit and vegetable juices, confectionary, and ice block mixes in powder or solid form. Foods intended for consumption by diabetics are those in which the normal sugar content has been replaced by artificial sweeteners such as cyclamates. This process of replacement of natural sugar for the benefit of diabetes sufferers is applied to a very wide range of foods marketed in Australia. 
Yes. 
Legislation with respect to food and drugs is the responsibility of the individual State Governments, the Commonwealth having responsibility only for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In these Commonwealth Territories, no action to impose a ban on cyclamates is at present contemplated. However, the National Health and Medical Research Council, which advises the States and the Commonwealth on health matters recommended at its 69th Session (November 1969) that cyclamates should continue to be permitted in low calorie foods and beverages in the amounts at present prescribed in the Standard for Artificial Sweetening Substances as published in Appendix VIII to the report of the Sixty-third Session of Council, provided that such foods and veverages are labelled "TAKE ON MEDICAL ADVICE ONLY" '. At the Seventieth Session (April 1970) the Uniform Poisons Schedule was amended by adding to Schedule 3 the new entry 'Cyclamic Acid and its salts other than as permitted in the Standard for Artificial Sweetening Substances' together with the warning  'TAKE ON MEDICAL ADVICE ONLY" '. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Television advertising of cigarettes in the United States of America has been banned since 1st January 1971. 
Since the imposition of the ban, there has been a cancellation of the previous requirement that a certain amount of time had to be devoted to publicising the hazards of smoking. I am unable to say whether the ban has had the other suggested results. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics arc not maintained to record separately the number of applications or persons applying for assistance underthe United States Passage Assistance Programme received from persons of European, or other descent. 
The following statement provides an estimate of the number of European persons and persons of non-European descent who applied for passage assistance during 1970: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not maintained to record separately the number of applications received for assisted passages from Britain for persons of non-European descent. 
During the year 1970 it was estimated that 300 applications were lodged and they were determined as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Government recognises that long-term illness and under-insurance have given rise to financial difficulties for some hospital patients. 
It is understood that representaitves of the Australian Medical Association appeared before the Committee on 3rd September 1968. 
and (5) In relation to long-term illness, the hospital benefits Special Account Plan was amended with effect from 1st January 1969, to provide contributors with the full insured rate of hospital benefits (but not exceeding the amount of the hospital account) irrespective of the period of hospitalisation. The Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs (June 1970) stated that, as a result of improvement in this Scheme, the widespread hardships that existed in the application of exclusion rules in hospital insurance for chronic illness have largely been overcome . . .' (paragraph 179 of Report). 
The Subsidised Medical Services Scheme was introduced on 1st January 1970. and was extended to provide tapered health insurance contribution subsidies from 1st July 1970. One of the purposes of this Scheme has been to reduce under-insurance in the lower-income sections of the community. 
In a statement to the House on 4th March 1970, my predecessor announced that the Govern.ernment had decided to adopt the recommendation of the Nimmo Committee to the effect that only three hospital benefit tables - directly related to standard (public), intermediate and private ward charges - be operated in each State. He also indicated recently that a fourth benefit table, related to private hospital charges, may be introduced in some States. 
One of the main objectives of this proposal for rationalisation of hospital benefit tables is the elimination of under-insurance against hospital charges (refer paragraphs 4.4-4.6 of Nimmo Committee's Report). 
When public hospital charges in South Australia were increased on 1st March 1971, hospital benefits organisations introduced a four-table structure related to the four levels of charges in public and private hospitals in that State. My Department is planning for similar action in the other States, probably in conjunction with the next increases in public hospital charges in each of those States. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The objective of the surveys carried out by my Department was to compare the costs of medical services processed by the medical benefits funds during the quarter ended 31st December 1969 and 31st December 1970. While the statistics obtained are clearly indicative of a substantial growth in doctors' incomes in the later period, they do not indicate the average income of doctors or the percentage of their income which is derived from Commonwealth and fund benefits. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The report contained 19 recommendations. Action had already been taken on six of these (No's 2, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18) prior to the receipt of the report. Action has been taken on a further ten (No's 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 19) since receipt of the report. Two of the remaining recommendations (No's 1, 3) are now under active consideration by the Government leaving only one recommendation still to receive detailed consideration (No. 15). 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. The tables are as follows- 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The National Health Act (section 56) provides that the $2 per day nursing home benefit is payable in respect of each qualified nursing home patient accommodated in an approved nursing home. To the extent that they are relevant to this question, the effect of certain definitions contained in section 4 of the Act is that a 'qualified nursing home patient' is a person who requires accommodation and nursing care for the purpose of: 
medical or surgical treatment by or under the supervision of a medical pracitioner; 
obstetric treatment by or under the supervision of a medical practitioner or registered obstetric nurse; or 
dental treatment by or under the supervision of a legally qualified dental practitioner. 
In accordance with section 57 of the Act, the benefit of $2 per day is payable on the basis of a certificate by a private medical practitioner, to the effect that the patient's condition necessitates nursing home care. Beyond these requirements, there are no specific administrative criteria concerning the medical condition of patients for the purposes of payment of the benefit of $2 per day. 
In accordance with section 57A of the Act, the supplementary nursing home benefit of$3 per day is payable only if the Director-General of Health (or his delegate) is satisfied that: 
the patient requires intensive nursing home care; and 
the nursing home is adequately fitted, furnished and staffed for the purpose of providing such care. 
The effect of the definition of 'intensive nursing home care' is that the supplementary benefit is payable only where, by reason of illness, disability, etc., the patient is bedridden or virtually bedridden and is wholly or substantially dependent upon nursing care (section 57 A (6)). 
Each application for supplementary benefit is considered on its merits by a Departmental medical officer, having regard to information provided by the patient's medical practitioner and the matron of the nursing home concerned. This information relates to such matters as whether the patient is bedridden or ambulant and the degree of nursing care required. 
There is no Commonwealth benefit applicable to patients in nursing homes undergoing rehabilitation treatment specifically. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The total amount of Commonwealth nursing home benefits paid to proprietors of nursing homes (on condition that equivalent amount were deducted from patients' accounts) during each of the last five years were: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Prior to July 1970 medical benefits organisations did not generally maintain records on a continuous basis of the numbers of the medical claims made in relation to all individual items in the benefits schedule. Consequently,the information requested is not available to my Department. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 45,756 (b) 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The future management and control of hospitals and other health services in the Australian Capital Territory is being considered by the Minister for Health and it is expected a submission will be placed before the Government shortly. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
$38,280 
The group bad an international reputatiion for its work in town planning and the design of hospital and ancillary medical services. In addition the group had recently carried out other similar extensive health care studies for regions in Canada and the United Kingdom. 
There is no shortage of new ideas for the development of health care services, and many are being tried out all over the world. The problem for the Australian Capital Territory is to select the most appropriate of these ideas, to modify them to suit local conditions and to quantify the needs in terms of staff and facilities. 
Yes. However it was considered desirable to have an investigation undertaken by an independent group so that the resulting recommendations would be more readily acceptable. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics which have been maintained only since 1st January 1963 show that between that date and the 31st December 1970, 1,581 persons of Asian origin were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation within 5 years of their arrival in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian and New Zealand Government Officials met in Canberra in November 1966 to discuss matters relating to documentation for direct travel between Australia and New Zealand of citizens of the two countries. This matter was the subject of discussions also between the then Minister for Immigration the  Hon.  P. R. Lynch and the High Commissioner for New Zealand in Canberra in February 1971. 
These discussions led to a careful study of the requirements by the Government which decided that there should be no change in the existing requirements as to the entry to Australia of citizens or residents of New Zealand. 
The Government's decision means that the documentation requirements for direct travel between Australia and New Zealand remain as indicated in the answer provided to the honour able member's question No. 1121 (Hansard, p;i:;. 3644 of 12 June 1970). 
No discussions have taken place with other Commonwealth countries in the South Pacific on specific questions relating to migration to Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics showing the number of applications f0 naturalisation by residents of Victoria have been maintained only from 1953. A breakdown according to nationality is available only from 1960. The figures are: 
Statistics of refusals and deferments have been maintained only on an Australia wide basis. Separate figures are not available in resepect of Victoria. The following table shows the total number of applications refused or deferred in the years 1949 to 1970, together wilh the number of Greeks and Italians in this category during the years 1960-1970. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The normal residence requirement for the grant of Australian citizenship by naturalisation to aliens is 5 years. The answer to Question 3107 (Hansard of 22 April 1971, page 1965) lists the circumstances in which citizenship may be granted to aliens without being required to complete the normal period of 5 years residence. 
Persons required' to meet the normal 5 years residence requirement may lodge applications up to 6 months before completing 5 years residence. Persons referred to in (a), (c), (e) and (g) of paragraph 1 of the answer to Question 3107 may also apply 6 months before completing the required period of residence. 
The normal residence requirement for the grant of citizenship by registration to citizens of other Commonwealth countries and Irish citizens is 1 year. The classes of persons referred to in (b) and (d) of paragraph 1 of the answer to Question 3107 may be granted citizenship by registration in accordance with the conditions mentioned. Minors over the age of 16 years may also be granted citizenship without satisfying any, specified period of residence. In all cases citizenship by registration may be sought when the residence requirement has been met. 
The residence requirements defined in the answer to Question 3107 and in paragraph (b) above apply to all persons except those admitted under the Government's decision of March 1966 referred to in the answer given to Question 3108 (Hansard of 22nd April 1971, pages 1965-1966). 
(i) The question of the reduction in the general 5 years requirement for naturalisation was considered in 1969 when the Government decided to reduce to 3 years the residence requirement for aliens who can read and write English proficiently. This was embodied in the 1969 Citizenship Act. 
The residence requirement for persons admitted under the March 1966 decision was considered by the Government in June 1969 and February 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Migrants come to Australia either by paying their own fares, without any subsidy from the Commonwealth Government, or under assisted passage schemes. Assisted migrants accepted under bilateral schemes or other arrangements travel to Australia with transport provided by the Commonwealth or by the Intergovernmental Committee f0 European Migration. Some assisted migrants approved under the unilaterally administered 
Special Passage Assistance Programme (SPAP) make their own travel arrangements. The following figures relate to all arrivals in Australia during the calendar years 1968, 1969 and 1970. 
Airlines which carried assisted migrants to Australia under arrangements made by the Commonwealth or by ICEM during the years in question, and the amounts paid to those airlines in respect of transportation costs were as follows: (a) Migrants moved from the United Kingdom, Turkey and Europe on charter and commercial flights arranged by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However some individual cases have come to the notice of my Department and the Department of Social Services. 
It is not possible for me to state whether these claims have been recognised by the German authorities. However, I am advised that pensions provided by the Federal Republic of Germany are not payable to non-citizens residing abroad, except for those living in countries which have reciprocal agreements on social security with the Federal Republic of Germany. 
No. However 1 am informed that a social security agreement has been negotiated between Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany but that formal ratification is not expected to be completed for some time. Details of the agreement have not been made public. 
The question of payment of German pensions in Australia is a matter for the German authorities. I understand that, while no formal negotiations have taken place between West Germany and Australia, the question whether there is a suitable basis on which reciprocity on social security might be approached is being examined by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services, as part of an exercise involving the possibility and implications of social security arrangements with other countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Important discussions were held with  Dr Bemporad  on the Australian/Italian Migration and Settlement Agreement. In particular, agreement was reached to proceed . with the establishment of the Joint Commission as provided for in Article 37 of the Agreement. Exploratory talks have since begun between the two parties on the composition of the Joint Commission and the tasks to which it might first direct its attention. 
No. In fact in a joint communique issued on 26th March  Dr Bemporad  expressed his satisfaction with the way in which Italian settlers were integrating into the Australian community and establishing themselves as prosperous and productive members of the community. 
Hie Italian Government confirmed its willingness to co-operate in the teaching of English to prospective migrants and responded favourably to the Australian request that Italian Labour Offices assist with the distribution of pamphlets to prospective migrants, informing them of the possibilities open to them for learning English as well as about working and living conditions they will find upon their arrival in Australia. 
The initial settlement problems of migrants and particularly their difficulties in learning English and obtaining recognition for professional and trade qualifications were discussed. 
On the matter of recognition of professional and trade qualifications, Ministers agreed on the importance of the results of the Australian Tripartite (Tregillis) Mission and of the National Conference of Training for Industry and Commerce, which was held in May this year in Canberra. 
Discussions with  Dr Bemporad  also covered Article 35 (Social Security) of die Migration and Settlement Agreement which requires the two Governments to study the possibility of entering into a reciprocal agreement on the "payment of the benefits contemplated by the respective social security systems. 
After reviewing problems relating particularly to age pensions and invalid pensions there was agreement to exchange further detailed information on the social security systems in each country, lt was further agreed that following this the subject would be re-examined at the expert level. 
See answers 1 - 5 above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Until recently the annual arrival statistics of people of non-European descent were dissected according to their nationality, not the country from which they came. The detailed nationality statistics relating to people of non-European and of part European/part non-European descent who have been admitted to Australia for residence or who were granted resident status after initial entry for temporary residence during the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question has been construed as referring to expenditure incurred for all immigration purposes as distinct from the costs involved directly in recruitment of migrants and passage assistance only. Details of such expenditure, together with revenue received by the Department of Immigra- and other sources, are shown in the following tion from migrant contributions to passage costs table: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The National Biological Standards Laboratory, to which it is assumed the Honourable member refers, was established in 1958. 
41. 
It is not possible to say. However, the Department of Health approved 163 applications for the import of new drugs and new formulations during the .financial year 1969-70. These figures do not represent the full number of new imports, as up until 1st August 1970, not all categories of drugs and formulations were covered by import licensing legislation. 
It is assumed from the subsequent parts of the question that 'under test' relates to drugs on clinical trial. Of the applications processed by the Department, 52 were imported for the purpose of clinical trial. 
It is not possible to say when drugs under clinical trial will be released. The decision to make application to my Department for the general marketing of a drug or new formulation rests with the importing company. The application is then referred to the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee for consideration and recommendation. If the Committee's recommendation is favourable, the importing company then makes the decision as to the timing of the release of the drug. 
and (7) Many of the drugs which undergo clinical trials in Australia have previously undergone clinical trials and have been in use in an overseas country or countries for a number of years. However, it is not necessary for a drug to undergo clinical trials in Australia if adequate information is available on it from reliable overseas sources. Further, it is a fact that the efficacy of a number of drugs, which have been marketed in the United States of America for many years but which have never been approved for the Australian market, has recently been called into serious question and indeed some of these drugs have been taken off the United States market. 
A close and effective liaison is maintained with overseas drug control authorities. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Commonwealth grants for medical research are provided on the recommendation of theNational Health and Medical Research Council from the Medical Research Endowment Fund. 
During the past 5 years a total of $25,758 has been granted towards projects specifically concerned with research into the causes and effects of drug taking and remedial treatment for addicts.Annualfigures are given hereunder: 
 The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The number of doctors participating in the Pensioner Medical Service in 1969-70 was 6,451. 
The average payment to each doctor (per annum) in 1969-70 was $2,969. 
(a) and (b) This information is not available to my Department. 
Doctors employed other than in hospitals: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
All Australian merino rams exported have been covered by appropriate health certification following examination. 
170. 
At or adjacent to the point of departure. 
Mascot, Casino, Lismore and Richmond. 
Argentine, Brazil, Rumania, Italy and U.S.S.R. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Registration Committee has been in existence since the inception of the National Health Scheme and has been making frequent reports to the Minister on changes to the rules of medical and hospital benefits organisations. 
For the 12 months ended 30th June 1971 the Committee considered 331 changes to the rules of registered organisations. Of the changes which related to contribution rates, the Registration Committee recommended to the Minister that the contribution rate submitted by, the organisation be varied in 3 instances. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Note: The information contained in the answers to parts (1) to (3) of the honourable member's question was supplied by my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The following countries export meat products to . Australia: New Zealand, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, Netherlands, Singapore, United Kingdom, United States of America, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, People's Republic of China, France, Italy, Malaysia, Poland, Argentina, Ethiopia, Hungary, Israel, Norway, Paraguay, Switzerland and Uruguay. 
(a) 4,783,214 lbs. 
2,469,956 lbs. (for period July-January 1970-1971). 
$3,255,100. 
Yes. 
Australia has a complete prohibition on the importation of meat from all countries in the world excepting New Zealand (which has a similar disease status to Australia), unless the product is contained in hermetically sealed cans and accompanied by a health certificate which must state that the product has been heat treated to a temperature of at least 100 C throughout the contents of the can. This treatment is sufficient to destroy the agents of exotic diseases. These import requirements are adequate to protect Australia, which, unlike Britain, does not import raw beef products except from New Zealand. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. In discussions with the economic advisers of the Australian Medical Association, Commonwealth officers stressed that, if Commonwealth and fund benefits adjustments were to be synchronised with increases in doctors' fees as from 1st July 1971, it was essential that the Commonwealth should be advised of the proposed increases at the earliest possible date. Adequate notice was necessary because of the various steps involved in the implementation of benefit changes. These steps included Government consideration of the proposed fee increases and such related questions as: - the benefit adjustment necessary for each service affected in each State; - the costs of such benefit adjustments; - the extent to which these costs would be met by adjustments of Commonwealth and/or fund benefits; - the consequential adjustments in insurance contributions for each medical benefit organisation. 
After consideration of these -matters, legislation would be necessary to vary the amounts of Commonwealth and fund benefits and the Department would need to arrange for the printing and distribution of medical benefit booklets for doctors and medical benefit funds. The funds would need to implement any adjustment of their contribution rates and to print new brochures. 
Because of the physical printing and other problems, 6 months' notice was desirable, but a minimum of 4 months' notice was considered essential. 
No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed that the Australian Medical Association has removed Article 7.8 from its Code of Ethics. 
No. 
No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth medical officers are authorised to approve payments of the Commonwealth nursing home benefit of $2 per day. 
Section 57(1) of the National Health Act provides, in effect, that (unless the Director-General of Health otherwise directs) this benefit is payable only where a medical practitioner (usually the patient's own doctor) certifies that 'the nature of the illness or injury from which the patient is suffering necessitates nursing home care'. In dealing with applications for payment of this benefit, Commonwealth medical officers usually rely on these certificates. 
None of the Commonwealth medical officers at present engaged in the granting of such approvals has special training in geriatrics specifically, but all are experienced in these duties. Not all nursing home patients are geriatric patients. 
The following numbers of Commonwealth medical officers in State offices of my Department are authorised to grant such approvals: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 am aware that in December 1970  Mr Rossiter.  said that the Victorian Government would not require warning labels on cigarette packets unless all other, States did the same. 
No. The position regarding legislation for the labelling of cigarette packets with health warnings is that the individual States are responsible for such legislation within their boundaries and the Commonwealth is responsible for similar legislation in the Territories. 
The Commonwealth's view is that when leg islation requiring warning labels on cigarette packets has been enacted in all States, the Commonwealth will enact similar legislation for the Territories. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. This was a part of the Committee's recommendation No. 55. 
The Government has taken no specific action on this recommendation; however it was aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare had received a referral related to this subject. The Standing Committee reported to the Senate on this referral on 5th May 1971. 
To establish the most satisfactory practical forms of assistance. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The development of uniform statistics is a continuing process and is being actively pursued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and by my Department. The Bureau of Census and Statistics is developing the collection of uniform statistics in a number of health areas. 
Details of the steps already taken by my Department are: 
 A Central Statistical Unit, . headed by officers seconded from the Bureau of Census and Statistics, has been established in my Department. A principal role of this unit is to work in close co-operation with the Bureau of Census and Statistics to develop and maintain national systems of collection and dissemination of uniform statistics specifically related to the functions of the Department of Health. 
Three sub-committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council namely the Hospital Statistics (Standing) Sub-Committee and the Disease Classification Sub-Committee, which report to the Medical Statistics (Standing) Committee, and the Mental Health Records SubCommittee, which reports to the Mental Health (Standing) Committee, are engaged in the investigation of the collection and interpretation of . uniform statistics in the fields of hospital morbidity, the presentation of hospital records, the classification of diseases and the recording of mental illness. 
At the 1970 Conference of Australian Health Ministers, a Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council was established comprising two representatives from each Stale and the Commonwealth. The primary function of the Council is to co-ordinate he approach in the field of research into health services. In three of the subcommitees set up by this Council, namely the ADP National Computer Committee, the Uniform Costing Committee and the Research Committee, projects will be undertaken which will be of assistance to this Department's Central Statistical Unit in its work. 
Hospitals: Finance  (Question No. 3351)  -  Mr Hayden  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to furnish details of the (a) amounts written off as bad debts by public hospitals and (b) indebtedness of public hospitals in each State in each of the last 5 years for which details are available. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The relevant State authorities have advised that bad debts written off by public hospitals in each State except Victoria for the years 1965-66 to 1969-70 were as follows: - 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The information is not available. Registered hospital benefits organisations advise that they have not maintained details of amounts of hospital fund benefits paid out in excess of the actual hospital charges. However, the . Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs reported that the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia had estimated that the amount of hospital fund benefit paid out in excess of the hospital charges approximated $1.8m per annum, representing over 17 per cent of the total hospital fund benefit paid by that organisation. The Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo Committee) stated in its report that the total amount involved for Australia in respect of hospital fund over-insurance could be as high as $9m per annum. These estimates were based on special surveys of payments recorded during the 2 months of December 1967/January 1968 and the financial year 1965-66, respectively. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The percentage of the population in each of the States and the Commonwealth covered by (a) hospital and (b) medical insurance (i) in total and (ii) at maximum benefit rates and the proportion of those insured at single rates under each category, are set out in the following tables: 
As at 30th June 1970 
As at 30th June 1970 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
.1 have noted newspaper reports of  Dr Stone's  work. 
Yes. 
Yes. The use of cyclamates in foods is under constant review by expert Committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. At its 72nd Session (May 1971) Council reaffirmed its previous recommendation made at its 69th Session (November 1969) that 'cyclamates should continue to be permitted in low calorie, foods and beverages in the amounts at present prescribed in the Standard for Artificial Sweetening Substances as published in Appendix VIII to the report of the Sixty-third Session of Council, provided that such foods and beverages are labelled 'Take on Medical Advice Only'. At the. Seventieth Session (April 1970) the Uniform Poisons Schedule was amended by adding to Schedule 3 the new entry 'Cyclamic Acid and its salts other than as permitted in the Standard for Artificial Sweetening Substances' together with the warning 'Take on Medical Advice Only'. All reports concerning the toxicity of cyclamates are considered as they become available. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no details available concerning the fees charged by general practitioners for surgery consultations and home visits at the commencement of the National Health Scheme. 
The following' tables have been prepared on the basis of the earliest reliable information for each State. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) Inquiries made with the major health insurance organisations operating in each State indicate that these organisations have not encountered any problems in regard to delays in the presentation of benefit cheques to banks. A regional organisation in Western Australia has reported however, that a particular doctor holds its cheques of over$10.00 for a full 11 months before presenting them to the bank'. This is a matter over which neither the Commonwealth nor the organisation has any control. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 31st December 1970, there was one nursing home bed for every 34 persons aged 60 or more years, on an Australia-wide basis. 
The fees charged by nursing homes' vary widely from State to State and as between different types of homes. The costs to the 3 parties to any insurance scheme, viz., the Commonwealth, the contributor and the patient, would depend on the level at which benefits were set and the extent to which fees charged are met by each party. 
The number of approved nursing home beds available in Australia is greater than the number of geriatric beds established in comparable developed countries. The optimum number depends on the needs and environmental background of the aged, on which precise information is not available on a national basis. 
Any such proposal would be a matter for consideration by the Government. The nursing home benefits scheme is at present under review by the Government. 
The Minister for. Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) Since home nursing services operating in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are conducted by the Commonwealth they are not eligiblefor a Commonwealth subsidy under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act, 1956. The number of nurses employed by organisations eligible for a subsidy in each State, per 10,000 of population as at 30th September 1956 and as at 30th June in the years from 1957 to 1970 are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The total number of prescriptions dispensed by approved pharmacists under the National Health Act during the year 1969-70 was 65,227,800. 
(a) 283 approved pharmacies (including friendly societies) dispensed below 3,000 items in the year 1969-70 and collectively dispensed an approximate total of 576,000 benefit items during the year. 
1,260 approved pharmacies (including friendly societies) dispensed below 6,000 items in the year 1969-70 and collectively dispensed an approximate total of 5,144,000 benefit items during the year. 
and (5) Statistics to enable approved pharmacies to be classified by yearly volume of benefits dispensed, rising in levels of 1,000, have not been maintained. However, figures are available which provide for the classification at levels rising at intervals of 1,200 up to 60,000 and after that level, grouping pharmacies with an average annual dispensing rate in excess of 60,000 prescriptions. The following table based on these levels, has been prepared in answer to sections (3) and (5) of the question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no particular differences between restricted membership organisations (closed funds) and other organisations (open funds) in regard to the degree of contributor participation in their supervision and control. Currently, 73 of the 93 organisations operating hospital funds and 67 of the 81 organisations operating medical funds, make provision for the election of contributor representatives to their governing bodies. In the case of friendly societies, contributors are elected at society meetings and to be eligible for election to the management body the contributor must be a member of the society. In the remaining cases, election is usually made at general meetings of the organisation. 
The number of contributors and the amount they contributed to restricted membership organisations and other organisations, is shown below, by State, for each of the last 5 years: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the estimated percentages of eligible persons who have been granted Australian citizenship by naturalization in the period 1 January 1945 to 30 June 1970 in the alien national categories listed in the 1969/70 Citizenship Return. 
Cattle are to be imported by New Zealand from France. They will be quarantined on the new island quarantine station on Soames Island for, 1 believe, at least 9 months, which is a little longer than the few weeks mentioned by the honourable member. I am advised by the responsible Australian officials that the present Austraiian regulations concerning the importation of cattle from New Zealand are adequate to protect the Australian livestock industries from the introduction of disease. I understand that there has been no pressure from the New Zealand authorities to alter these regulations and, as far as I am aware, there is no intention to delay the import of the cattle from France to New Zealand. I can say from my experience when I was Minister for Health that there is complete, open and most frank discussion between New Zealand and Australia on all matters affecting quarantine, and both countries have great confidence in each other. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information relating to (a) capital and (b) recurrent expenditures of ambulance services in the Stales is not held in my Department. 
The following information relates to Ambulance Services operating in the Commonwealth mainland Territories. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
On 4th March 1970 the then Minister for Health announced in Parliament that the Government had decided to adopt recommendation 27 of the Nimmo Committee. This decision is currently under reconsideration. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only such data available to me relates to fluoridation of water supplies in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Since the introduction of fluoridation of the Canberra watersupply in 1964, a long-term survey of the dental health of 6-12 year old children has been undertaken. This survey shows that the incidence of newly decayed teeth has decreased substantially. The results of an examination in 1964 of a group of 6-12 year old children who did not have the benefit of fluoridated water have been used as a base. Compared with the incidence of newly decayed teeth in this base group the incidence found in children in the same age group bas fallen steadily each year as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will recall that in my predecessor's preliminary reply to his Question on 24lh February 1971,  Mr Lynch  said '.hat it would not be until the results of certain enquiries which were being undertaken by his colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, were known that he would be able to provide the appraisal of die Lindgren system which you sought. 1 am now informed that these enquiries have been almost completed and I understand that my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be writing to you. In the meantime my Department has separately discussed the possible use of the Lindgren system with the Department of Education and Science, who are our technical advisers on language matters. 
After a careful perusal of the Lindgren proposals that Department was of the view that a fullscale phonetic spelling reform, as suggested by  Mr Lindgren,  is not feasible, although some simplification of consonant clusters might be desirable and possible of achievement. 
To explore the matter further it was referred to the Australian National Advisory Committee for UNESCO. That Committee has now obtained comments from a number of English scholars and experienced educationists in Australia. 
Only one of these was prepared to support a reform in spelling of the dimensions advocated by Lindgren, He is a senior officer of the New South Wales Department of Education. He says: 
I am of the opinion that spelling reform is desirable, should be a continuous process and should follow trends already set in motion by common usage. The problems of a phonetic alphabet are clearly too great for immediate solution in one traumatic conversion but need not be rated out as the possible end product of an evolutionary process involving progressive reforms.' 
This view was not shared by all his colleagues. 
Several others see virtue in a more limited move towards some standardisation and simplification in spelling. For instance, the Director of the Australian Council of Educational Research,  Dr W.  C. Radford, says: 
A national working party may be able to come up with a practicable scheme based on greater simplicity in consonants and clusters, and it is certainly worth trying.' 
Again,  Dr R.  D. Eagleson Senior Lecturer in English Language at the University of Sydney, says: lt does seem to me that much can be done in the way of spelling reform by concentrating on irregularities and pointless inconsistencies in our current practice.' 
Against this a number of the authorities consulted believed there was little prospect of achieving even limited spelling reform. For example, Professor A. G. Mitchell of Macquarie University, Sydney, says: 
I have always been quite sceptical about the chances of any worthwhile and lasting simplification. As you say, a full-scale reform on phonetic principles is impractical. Communications differ and are subject :o unrelated changes. I am not convinced that simplification of some consonants and clusters would bring benefits commensurate with the effort of relearning. There would also be a permanent awkwardness in making the literature of 4 centuries look "familiar"'. 
Similarly, Professor A. Delbridge of the same 
University says:  . . . a really solid attempt to introduce a reform, even if it got the support of the rank and file of teachers and librarians, is likely to create a good deal more indignation and worry than a comparatively restricted innovation like metrication. A limited simplification of consonants and clusters probably could not go much further than Webster and the Americans have gone without raising as many problems as are settled.' 
From the information available it would seem that, before any practical steps are taken to introduce large-scale simplification and standardisation of the English language, much more research in this field would be necessary. Whilst this specifically is not within my area of responsibility, nevertheless it is a matter in which I will continue to take an interest in view of its relationship to the migrant education programme generally. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The exact number of disposable syringes, and vials of procaine penicillin, dispensed as pharmaceutical benefits, is not known because records are not maintained of the number of prescriptions which specify other than maximum quantity. However, average costs indicate, that the majority of prescriptions are written for maximum quantity and on this basis, the following figures are provided: 
The earlier decisions to which the honourable gentleman referred were not made in the period of my administration. I will examine the facts and advise him as to precisely what happened. But it is the general policy of the Government and my Department to provide visas for sporting teams to come to this country. If any exception is to be made to this policy the case is looked at by the Government on its merits and a decision is made. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
The number and percentage of medical and hospital benefits organisations that have provision in their constitutions for the election of contributor representatives to their governing bodies are as follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of registered medical benefits and hospital benefits organisations as at 30th June 1970 (the latest date for which figures are available) that held reserves in excess of 3 months contribution income, and the excess over 3 months are set out in the table below: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
No ethnological discrimination is practised. Medical officers prescribe evacuation by, air solely on the clinical evidence presented to them. 
As stated, no discrimination is practised. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) It is not possible to determine tha ratio of fund branches to population due to the difficulty in determining the area of extent to be taken into account for the latter factor. Also there are instances where several funds operate in one area, e.g. the Sydney metropolitan area. 
The following table has been compiled relating branch structure to the total number of persons (contributors plus dependants) covered for health insurance by each fund operating branches: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) In his statement to Parliament on 4th March 1970  Dr Forbes  indicated that the general examination of arrangements for the provision of ancillary benefits under the National Health Scheme, including para-medical services, was to be proceeded with within the context of other relevant proposals. This examination is proceeding. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 30 June, 1971 the numbers of beds, according to ward classifications, which were available in hospitals approved under the National Health Act for the purposes of payment of hospital benefits were as follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. On 4th March 1970  Dr Forbes  announced in Parliament that the Government had decided to adopt this recommendation. This decision is currently under reconsideration. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
(a) The Home Nursing Subsidy Scheme was in operation at the time of the. evidence. 
The Scheme was introduced on 1st January 1957 under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act 1956. The Act provides (or subsidies to non-profit organisations which conduct home nursing services. Where an eligible organisation receives State or Local government assistance for the operation of a home nursing service, subsidy is payable not exceeding the amount of State assistance and at the following rates: 
For organisations in operation at the commencement of thc Scheme $3200 per annum for each registered nurse employed fulltime on home nursing over and above the number employed at 30th September 1956. 
For organisations established since the commencement of the Scheme $1600 per annum for each registered nurse employed full-time. 
(i) The following amendments, without change to related conditions, were made to the Home Nursing Scheme subsidy rates up to the time of the evidence: 
The answer to the honourable member's question as as follows: 
I have read the newspaper report to which the honourable member refers. 
It is true that although some young Malaysians have come to Australia to train as pilots, other applications have not been approved. It is also true that one young Malaysian's application to train as a pilot in Australia was rejected shortly before the newspaper report was published. A second applicant was advised on 19th April that his application had been approved, but although he was invited by the Australian High Commission in Kuala Lumpur to forward his passport to obtain the appropriate entry endorsement he had still not done so on 19th August. As the other 10 persons mentioned in the newspaper report have not been identified it is not known whether they made formal applications for entry as students. 
Rejection of the application mentioned above was due to the fact that the applicant did not meet the academic requirements for entry to the local airline. The applicant who was approved had an earlier application refused. He was subsequently reported to have obtained further qualifications and the Australian High Commission in Kuala Lumpur was asked to re-examine his application in March 1971. As he was advised of approval on 19th April the delay is not considered excessive. As the other interested young men cannot be identified, 1 cannot comment on their reasons for withdrawing. The main reasons for not granting approval for students to train as pilots in Australia have been lack of demand for the training in their homelands or failure to meet the academic standards required for subsequent employment with local airlines. 
The main objective of the Private Overseas Student Programme under which young people from Asia and the Pacific region are permitted to undertake training in Australia is to assist the developing countries by increasing their numbers of qualified people in areas of special need. Recent enquiries made in Malaysia and Singapore have established that the demand for pilots in those countries is limited. The major airline companies and Governments concerned make their  own  arrangementsfor recruitment and training of pilots. The Government does not believe that people should be admitted to Australia for training unless they can put their skills to good use on return home. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Immigration, during the past 12 months, have taken place in Melbourne on 9th October 1970 and in Hobart on 7th May 1971. 
The main purpose of these regular conferences is to enable Ministers for Immigration to keep each other fully informed on current activities and developments in relation to the immigration programme. They also enable action to be co-ordinated where the States have powers; for example, in the field of migrant education. Initiatives agreed on at recent conferences have played a major part in removing differences between States' policies concerning payment of worker's compensation to migrants' dependants overseas. They have also resulted in co-operation aimed at the removal of differences in the recognition of overseas professional qualifications between the various States and Commonwealth Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 17th February 1971, the Committee has met formally as a full Committee on 25th March, 7th May, 28th June, 22th July and 23rd August. 
Since February 1971, the Committee has printed booklets on the professions of: 
I will be glad to convey the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in the other place and to ask him to give a full reply. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31st December 1970. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This information is not available in my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the number of (a) men and (b) women who were deported during each of the last 5 financial years: 
Statistics have not been maintained relating to the number of persons who have been- required to leave Australia. In the great majority of cases temporary entrants who are refused permission to settle here accept the decision and arrange to leave Australia. 
As I informed the Honourable Leader of the Opposition by letter dated 1st July 1971. in reply to a telegram which he directed to me on 24th June 1971 seeking information concerning the number of Australian born children who have left Australia during the preceding 12 months on account of the deportation of one or both of their parents, only 5 Australian children left for that reason. This was established by a physical check of the departmental case files for that 12 months' period. 
The departure of Australian born children in these circumstances has never been recorded for statistical purposes. 1 believe, however, that the number of Australian children departing as a consequence of one or both parents being deported would have been minimal and probably of the same order during each of the past 5 years. 
Yes. 
The only persons who have a right to entry to Australia are those who may not be regarded as 'immigrants'. Persons born in Australia are however normally permitted to re-enter Australia when able to support themselves. Requests for assisted passages by Australians who were taken overseas as children by their parents for residence, are considered on their merits. 
My Department has investigated this question. At the present moment any further decision is held up because of 2 matters currently under consideration by the American authorities. The first is in relation to the willingness of die United States authorities to repatriate the family and the second is in relation to whether it is correct that the American authorities paid the fares of the family to come here. So far we have not received a reply from the American authorities. Until such time as we do, I will not bs able to make a final decision as to what we are going to do about the case. 
The case of this person has been considered at least half a dozen times to my knowledge and probably by as many Ministers. They have all come to the same decision, which is 'no'. 
1 have seen the report in question. It is the worst piece of beaten up misinformation I have seen for a long time. The latest figures - that is, the figures for the March quarter of 1971 - available to the Department of Health concerning the observance of the common fee indicate that the proportion pf medical services charged at or below the common fee was 78 per cent in New South Wales, 76 per cent in Queensland, 87 per cent in South Australia, 88 per cent in Western Australia and 70 per cent in Tasmania. 1 have no reason to believe that these figures have changed since that time. Indeed, the events that have taken place since that time - that is, the increase in general practitioners fees, accompanied by an increase in benefits - would seem to suggest that the figures should remain at least at that level. 
The honourable gentleman says that I left out Victoria. I did so because so far the funds in that State have not been able to provide the information. They will provide it for the first time, I think, when the next quarterly figures are given. 
 Ever since the postwar immigration scheme was launched by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  to whom I pay tribute, it has been accepted as axiomatic by both sides in this Parliament that the national interest requires the effective control of the size and structure of the migrant inflow. Similarly, it has been accepted that this control, if it is to be exercised effectively, necessitates suitable provision for the encouragement by the Government of the types of migrants which Australia needs and who either could not or would not come here without this encouragement and assistance. I say has been accepted' because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his speech on the Budget with his penchant for trimming his policies to the prevailing fashions of the patio intellectuals, has become an advocate not of control but of laissez-faire in immigration, because this is what natural migration, open migration or sponsored migration is. The Leader of the Opposition who would introduce controls and planning into virtually every aspect of our economic and social life, has become an advocate of laissez-faire in immigration. 1 have no hesitation in rejecting such an approach as totally opposed to the best interests of Australia. Such policies wrongly assume that the sum of migrants' individual interests necessarily equate with Australia's national interests. No responsible Australian Government could accept this. No responsible Australian Government could abrogate its responsibilities by allowing the size and structure of the immigration programme to be determined by the unco-ordinated decisions of thousands of individuals here and overseas. And this essentially is what advocates of natural migration and similar policies would have us do. These objections apply even more strongly to proposals that we confine ourselves to the sponsored migration of relatives and close friends of persons already here, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested. Migration of this kind is important, but our national interests cannot be treated as an occasional byproduct of consanguinity. 
What in fact would be the effect if proposals of this kind were to be adopted? The result would be to cut assisted migration from Britain by more than 60 per cent and virtually to eliminate migration from Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, France, Switzerland, the United States of America, the countries of Latin America and other sources of what are, by any standards, first class immigrants. That would be the effect of what the Leader of the Opposition advocates. 
Had assisted migration been restricted to sponsored cases in 1970-71, instead of 120,000 assisted migrants, Australia would have received fewer than 33,000 assisted migrants. Of these, 23,000 would have come from Britain, some 5,000 from Yugoslavia, fewer than 1,500 from Italy, fewer than 1,000 from Greece, perhaps 800 from Malta and only isolated cases from other countries. We would have gained only 12,500 migrant workers compared with the 55,000 who actually arrived. The proportion of dependents to workers would have been significantly higher than in a more broadly based assisted programme. Instead of 100,000 assisted migrants this year, we would, under these circumstances, be fortunate to receive 25,000. We would gain 30,000 fewer workers than provided for in our present programme for 1971-72, including a large proportion of professional workers, tradesmen, and others with occupational skills needed in Australia. AH this would be the result of what the Leader of the Opposition advocates on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. In fact, the greatest single reduction in assisted migration in 1971-72 will be from Britain, but this reflects that Britain continues to be our major source country, and the overall reduction in the programme will be spread fairly broadly across all countries. 
We have decided quite deliberately against proportionate reductions. Instead, we have been careful to ensure scope for the sound growth of new migrant sources - particularly the Americas - while at the same time maintaining viable levels of activity in the traditional migrant countries. These are responsible decisions made by a responsible Government. They are aimed at meeting present circumstances and present needs without prejudicing our future prospects. To suggest that the role of the Commonwealth Government should be confined to assisting migrants sponsored by friends or relatives already here, or even to abandon assisted migration totally, is worse than foolish. Indeed, the intemperate nature of some recent attacks on immigration, and even particular migrant groups, can be described adequately only in terms of the legal definition of fraudulent misrepresentation. These attacks have involved statements made 'recklessly, carelessly, not caring whether they be true or false'. Other, honest, criticism sometimes arises from misunderstanding. But where criticism has substance - and whatever its source - the Government will act on it, as it has in the past. 
To advocate, as the Leader of the Opposition has done, a totally passive role for the Commonwealth Government in the field of immigration is completely unrealis tic. lt would be inconsistent with the spirit and intent of our agreements with other governments. It would " effectively preclude the broadening of our migrant sources. It would, as the figures 1 quoted earlier showed, restrict the flow of migrants in source, in numbers and in skills. It would effectively deny Australia the opportunity, so vitally important today as in the past, of making good serious deficiencies in our own work force. The proposal of the Leader of the Opposition has about it all the warm hearted, logical appeal of a policy of national economic euthanasia. Parenthetically, I make the point that to confine our immigration programme to sponsored cases would effectively preclude Australia from accepting refugees who, with few exceptions, are wholly Government sponsored. Critics of the Government's policies also forget that immigration is not an end in itself. But, as in the past, the immigration programme - and particularly assisted migration - will continue to be directed towards our major national objectives through its influence on the size and structure of our population. 
Immigration is only one part of an overall population situation, only one of several components of population change. It is, however, the factor most effectively influenced by Government action and for this reason provides the principal means of giving effect to population policies. But the social, economic and demographic effects of the components of population change - births, deaths, immigration and emigration - vary quite substantially. Changes in the immigration programme cannot entirely offset the consequences of changes in other population, and work force, factors. Neither is natural increase and immigration the mutually conflicting possibilities which they are sometimes represented to be. Indeed, an increased birth rate as an alternative to immigration, as sometimes advocated, is neither feasible nor relevant to Australia's needs. 
Migrants add immediately, and disproportionately, to the work force, whereas births represent a deferred addition some 15 years to 20 years hence. The 1966 census showed that migrants had added 38.3 per cent more to the work force than they had added to the population served by that work force. In contrast, natural increase imposes an immediate net charge on the community, while its reinforcement of the economy is, of necessity, deferred. This does not mean that natural increase is not important to Australia. It is. But natural increase and immigration are not mutually conflicting alternatives. They are not identical substitutes. They are desirably and essentially complementary elements of population growth. I could give many other examples to illustrate this point. Migrants particularly reinforce the younger working age groups. In  1969-70,  the latest year for which detailed figures are available,  47.4  per cent of settled arrivals were aged between  20  and  39,  compared with  27.6  per cent of the Australian population. They are a significantly young group; overall, the average age was only  23.3  years compared with an average age of  30.9  years for the Australian population Migrants in fact contribute disproportionately to the support of both the youth of Australia and our aged. They have no' received the full credit which is due to them for this. Indeed, some critics would have us believe that migrants are 'costing' us more than they contribute and that migrants lower our living standards. Yet we are traditionally a country of immigration and. on recent international studies, both our achievements and our prospects in terms of living standards are amongst the highest in the world. 
Turning from these particular points to broader issues  1  point out that the fact is that a population with the best possible combination of social, economic and demographic features is something of an illusory objective. The most that we can reasonably ask of immigration is that it improve the situation which otherwise would exist. We cannot expect improvement in every specific respect and must always assess the overall balance of advantages and disadvantages. It is foolish, and indeed dangerous, to regard immigration as some kind of economic and social 'wonder drug' which will overcome all our problems. But it is, of course, just as foolish - and just as dangerous - to regard immigration as the sole or principal cause of these problems. One group seeks to resolve problems by bringing in more migrants. The other seeks to resolve them by bringing in fewer migrants. In fact, the essential purpose of the immigration programme is, as I said before, to contribute towards our major national objectives through its influence on the size and structure of our population and work force. To date, our population objectives have been conceived essentially in terms of rates of growth. This is an entirely valid concept, and important for many purposes, particularly in the field of economic planning. 
More recently, we have added to the objective of desirable rates of population growth, the additional criteria of desirable population levels for Australia. We do not see these desirable population levels as constants, as the old ideas of an optimum population implied, but as variables over time. Moreover, we consider it essential that they should be related to the structure of future Australian populations and, in particular, take into account their concentrations and distributions. It is against this background that Australia's immigration programmes are being developed. To provide this information, the Government last year commissioned a population study at the Australian National University. The purpose of the study is to provide the clearest possible indication of the effects on Australia of various levels of population growth, ft will examine the economic, social, ecological and other effects of various levels of population at specific points between now and the end of the century. This information will be used by the Government, together with other considerations, in determining the size and structure of future immigration programmes. 
The purpose of the study wil not be to determine a specific rate of population growth or specific levels of population towards which the Government's policies should be directed. The responsibility for a matter of such major importance will remain - and very properly remain - vested in the Government. The study, which is being financed by my Department, is of such complexity that it will take  3  years to compete. Another major study is being carried out at the university of Sydney under the aegis of the Commonweath Immigration Planning Council. This study is concerned with establishing the costs and benefits of immigration under existing Australian conditions. It involves the application of recent advances in econometrics and the use of computer technology on a quite substantial scale and is expected to take  2  years to complete. 
A third study - a longitudinal survey of the experience of some 10,000 migrants during their first 3 years in Australia - is being undertaken by the research staff of my Department. Like the cost benefit analysis, this survey is being carried out in association with the Immigration Planning Council. By any standards, these are substantial and important undertakings. 
In conclusion I would remind the House, that as previously announced and for reasons then given, the Government has decided on an immigration programme of 140,000 for 1971-72. This is 30,000 fewer than actually arrived last year and 40,000 fewer than originally planned for 1970-71. I would stress that the programme for 1971-72 has been shaped to meet present circumstances without prejudice to future needs. The advantages tend to be fairly immediate; the disadvantages long-term and less apparent. The Government, unlike the critics, has taken both into account. Even in the short term however, a smaller immigration programme is not going to be some kind of universal panacea. It does not provide a solution to the whole broad range of economic, social, demographic, ecological and other issues currently under public discussion. Most certainly, also, the decision to set a smaller immigration programme this year was not, and is not, intended by the Government as a convenient substitute for action by others in their particular fields of responsibility. 
There have been calls for a breathing space. But nations are not built by deep breathing exercises. Had it been their decision, our cautious critics, amongst whom apparently must be numbered the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and some of his colleagues, would have abandoned the first settlement of Australia, if they had ever possessed the courage to attempt it. In determining the immigration programme for 1971-72, the Government has acted with the courage of responsibility. It has taken full account of present needs and given clear recognition of its obligations to the future of the nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In addition to the direct service which my Department provides for the migrant community through its own social workers and in other ways, funds are provided also under  a  grant scheme for the employment of social workers by community welfare agencies which are engaged in direct welfare amongst migrants. 
I will be glad to convey the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in another place. I am sure that my colleague will provide him with a full answer. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971, I present the annual report on migrant education for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health on the activities of the Commonwealth Department of Health for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I am aware that the honourable gentleman has a question on the notice paper addressed to my colleague, the Minister for Health. I am advised that the Minister will be answering that question today. The information that the honourable gentleman has sought will be provided in that answer. If the answer does not provide all the information for which the honourable gentleman has asked in his question I will ask my colleague to give him that further information. 
I have not seen the article by the late Professor Read although I have seen Press reports in relation to it which substantially confirm that the late Professor Read's views were as expressed by the honourable member. They are his personal opinions and for that reason they must be respected. I believe that the fee for service system, which is overwhelmingly supported by the medical profession, has provided a very high standard of medical attention in this country. I believe it is true to say that in those countries which have abandoned the fee for service system the standard of medical treatment and particularly the personal relationship between doctor and patient has declined. As one who is very interested in this matter 1 have noticed that in some of the countries which have abandoned the fee for service system the trend has been to go back to the system. 
The Leader of the Opposition has denied publicly that it is the intention of the Australian Labor Party, if it should come into power, to abandon the fee for service system. On the other hand everything that has been said by honourable members opposite and their attitudes, like the attitude of the honourable member for Maribyrnong, suggest the contrary. 1 believe it is time that the Opposition came into the open and told us precisely what it Intends to impose on the Australian public in relation to its health scheme because there is absolutely no doubt in my mind from the information provided to me that the Opposition could not put into operation its own health scheme at the cost claimed for it without abandoning the fee for service system. In other words, I believe it is the intention of the Opposition, if it forms a government, to honour the promise to introduce a health scheme by nationalising medicine in Australia. That is the only way the Opposition can do it and I believe that the question asked by the honourable member for Maribyrnong proves that proposition. 
I. move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is, firstly, to give effect to the Government's Budget proposals in relation to the contribution payable by the patient for pharmaceutical benefits and, secondly,  to  incorporate in the Schedules of the National Health Act variations made to certain items of those Schedules during 1971 by regulations. As announced in the Budget, it is proposed to raise the level of patient contribution in respect of general pharmaceutical benefits from 50c to $1. The fee has remained at 50c since 1960. However, the contribution payable by persons receiving assistance under the Subsidised Health Insurance Scheme - now to be known as the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan - will be maintained  at  50c. Pensioners and their dependants covered by the pensioner medical service will continue  to  receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. It is proposed that these provisions will come into effect on 1st November 1971. The present system of providing pharmaceutical benefits to the general public, other than pensioners, is based on the principle of Government assistance to the individual in meeting the cost of medical treatment rather than the provision of 'free medicine' in the literal sense. 
In September 1950 a scheme was introduced by the Government which provided certain life saving and disease preventing drugs free of cost to the whole community on a doctor's prescription. From July 1951 the Government introduced a further scheme which provided a comprehensive range of medicines for pensioners who were enrolled in the pensioner medical service. No charge was made for these drugs. Between the years 1951 and 1960 the list of life saving and disease preventing benefits was periodically expanded to include newly developed drugs. In March 1960 a major departure was made to the then existing schemes. The general and pensioner benefits schemes were amalgamated and the entire range of drugs in both schemes, with the exception of a small number of drugs restricted to eligible pensioners, was made available to the general public. The list of benefits was greatly expanded to provide a much wider range of treatment. At the same time all items on the list, except those restricted to eligible pensioners, were made available to the general public at a fee of 50c for each item supplied by a chemist. Pensioners, however, continued to receive the benefits free of charge. The drugs and medicinal preparations made available as pharmaceutical benefits are determined by the Minister for Health on the advice of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee established under section 101 of the National Health Act. 
As honourable members are aware, pharmaceutical benefits are the most expensive component of the Government's overall health benefits plan. In 1970-71 the cost to the Commonwealth of prescription benefits to the general public amounted to $88.2m. Additional costs to the Commonwealth included payments to public hospitals and miscellaneous sources of $26.9m and payments in respect of benefits supplied to eligible pensioners and dependants under the pensioner medical service of $45.2m, a total of $ 160.3m. This figure compares with $1 37.7m in 1969-70. 
In 1960-61 the corresponding costs were S34.3m, $6.8m and $ 14.7m respectively, a total of $55. 8m. Commonwealth expenditure on pharmaceutical prescription benefits for the general public has thus increased by 157.2 per cent over a period of 11 years. The patient contribution has increased from $ 10.3m to $24.4m for the same period, an increase of 136.9 per cent. However, the relationship of patient contribution to the total cost has fallen from 23.1 per cent in 1960-61 to 21.7 per cent in 1970-71. While the cost per prescription has risen from $2.18 in 1960-61 to $2.30 in 1970-71 and is estimated to rise to $2.65 in 1971-72, the number of prescriptions per head has increased from 2.13 in 1960-61 to 4.26 in 1970-71 and is expected to rise to 4.48 in 1971-72. The effect has been that the cost per person in respect of general benefit prescriptions has risen from $4.62 in 1960-61 to $9.80 in 1970-71. 
Three main contributing factors are responsible for the increase in cost to the Commonwealth. These are the addition of new expensive drugs and the relaxation of restrictions on prescribing of certain drugs, particularly in relation to the antibiotics, analgesics, anti-hypertensive and antidepressant groups of drugs, together with some increase in prescribing by doctors unaccounted for by the above two factors. It is estimated that the proposed increase in the patient contribution from 50c to $1 will effect a reduction in the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth, in respect of general prescription benefits, of $24. 6m in a full year and $ 15.8m in the current financial year. These estimates have been made on the basis of the situation that pertained in 1970-71. The expected savings, however, could be affected by variations to the list of benefits and changes in doctors' prescribing habits. At a time when the Government is concerned with the continuing sharp increase in the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, it believes that it is not unreasonable for the community at large to bear the cost of the increased patient contribution. There have of course been substantial increases in incomes since 1960 when the existing patient contribution was first set. 
The proposed increase to $1 will mean that those items listed in the Schedules to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Regulations as pharmaceutical benefits which cost $1 or less will not be available as benefits to the general public. It is not proposed that these benefits be deleted from the schedule of benefits, as the Government recognises that such items should be retained and made available for the use of pensioners and persons receiving assistance under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. The present provisions of the National Health Act relating to the treatment of chronic diseases or conditions will also continue to apply. As I have already mentioned, beneficiaries under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan will not have to meet the increase of 50c for national health prescriptions. This decision is in keeping with the Government's policy under the Health Benefits Plan to assist where possible those special groups in the community to meet the cost of medical care. 
The subsidised health benefits plan which has been in existence since January 1970 provides assistance, in meeting the cost of medical and hospital treatment, to persons receiving unemployment, sickness and special social service benefits, to migrants during their first 2 months in Australia and to low income families. The Bill provides that persons receiving assistance in each of these categories will be able to obtain medicines and drugs prescribed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme for 50c a prescription. While the Government has taken this action to assist these special groups of people to obtain their pharmaceutical benefits for a charge of only 50c, it must be appreciated that the onus to establish initial eligibility must rest with the persons concerned. It is essential, therefore, that persons who believe they are entitled to subsidised health benefits should make application to the Department of Social Services or, in the case of migrants, to the Department of Health as soon as possible. 
The Government has also considered the position of certain members of friendly societies who, under their lodge rules, are entitled to receive varying levels of rebates on the present 50c patient contribution for benefit items dispensed by frendly societies dispensaries. I should like to make it quite clear that the friendly societies dispensaries receive exactly the same payment from the Government as other retail chemists for pharmaceutical benefits dispensed. The rebate on the 50c patient contribution is met by the friendly societies and under the provisions of section 92a of the National Health Act this rebate is limited to members and their dependants who joined societies prior to 24th April 1964. Members who joined on or after that date are not entitled to any rebate on the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. 
Members of friendly societies were not required, by legislation, to pay the 50c patient contribution, introduced in March 1960, for benefits supplied at society dispensaries because those members had long been accustomed to meeting the cost of medicines by regular weekly or quarterly payments to their societies. However, by 1964 there were indications that other organisations were considering entering the field of rebate insurance against the 50c patient contribution. The Government was concerned that a situation might be reached where the deterrent effect of the patient contribution would be nullified. The National Health Act was therefore amended in 1964 to ensure that persons who became members of friendly societies on or after 24th April 1964, the date of operation of the new legislation provisions, paid the 50c patient contribution. Persons who were members of friendly societies up to 23rd April 1964 and certain of their dependents, retained their entitlement to rebates. 
The Bill provides that friendly societies will not be permitted to rebate more than 50c for each pharmaceutical benefit item supplied. The effect of this is that persons who were members of societies prior to 24th April 1964 will not gain any additional advantage over persons who joined subsequent to that date. What this in effect means is that members of friendly societies who are entitled to the rebate may not necessarily have to pay the full $1 for prescriptions but an amount somewhere between 50c and $1. However, I would repeat the Government will deduct $1 from the price paid for each pharmaceutical benefit prescription dispensed by friendly societies for persons not eligible for concessional or free benefits. The societies will meet the amount of any rebate. 
The second purpose of the Bill is to incorporate into the Schedules to the National Health Act variations made to those Schedules by the National Health (Variations of Benefits) Regulations in accordance with section 13A of that Act. This section provides that a table in a medical benefit schedule to the Act may be varied by regulation. However, the regulations cease to have effect unless they are ratified by an amendment of the Act within 15 sitting days of the House of Representatives following the expiration of 12 months after notification of the regulation in the Commonwealth Gazette. This particular section was inserted by amendment to the Act in 1970, as part of the reconstruction of the medical benefits segment of the new Health Benefits Plan. It was recognised at that time that adjustments to the schedules would be necessary as more comprehensive data become available regarding fees commonly charged by doctors for medical procedures infrequently carried out. It was also realised that it would be necessary from time to time to fix appropriate amounts for new medical procedures as they were introduced and to adjust Commonwealth and fund benefits for medical services when new common fees were determined. The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 1) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 43 of 1971) were notified in the Commonwealth Gazette on 1st April 1971 and came into force on that date. The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 2) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 75 of 1971) were notified in the Commonwealth Gazette on 24th June 1971 and came into force on 1st July 1971. 
The variations made to the medical benefit schedules contained in the Variation of Benefits Regulations No. 1 and No. 2 are therefore covered by the present Bill. The regulations which became effective from 1st April 1971 involved amendments to 29 items of the Schedules. A number of services not previously listed was introduced into the Schedules and in addition the common fees and benefits ' for some items already listed were varied. The varia tions in the most common fees were made because at the time the original list of most common fees was drawn up information on some services had been incomplete. These amendments from April 1971 resulted from recommendations of the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee which is a body appointed by the Minister for Health to consider and recommend changes in the benefits schedules. The Committee consists of representatives of the Australian Medical Association, the registered medical benefits organisations and the Department of Health. 
The changes to the medical benefit schedule made by the Regulations which became operative from 1st July 1971 were much more significant in their scope than the previous regulations, although not as many in number. The most significant feature of these regulations was the increase in Commonwealth and fund benefits in most States for the important general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits to meet the increases in the most common fees for those services as from 1st July 1971. 
When the new common fee system was introduced on 1st July 1970 both the Government and the Australian Medical Association recognised the necessity for periodic reviews of medical fees to take account of economic circumstances. It was decided that there should be a review of the most common fees at 2-yearly intervals and that the first review would have effect from 1st July 1971. These regulations incorporate the changes made to the most common fees for surgery consultations and home visits as a result of a review of common fees. Consequential adjustments were also necessary to fees for 11 other medical services which, for fees and benefit purposes, are equated to general practitioner surgery consultations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available in the manner requested. Statistics in relation to the Subsidised Health Insurance Scheme are compiled in respect of the following groups: (0 low income families; 
unemployed sickness and special beneficiaries under the Social Services Act; and 
migrants. 
In respect of low income families, there was only one category of beneficiary when the Scheme commenced operation on 1st January 1970, viz., families whose gross weekly income did not exceed $39 per week, a figure which at that time approximated the average minimum weekly wage payable under Commonwealth awards. As from 1st July 1970, the National Health Act was amended by extending this assistance, on a graduated scale, to low income families whose gross weekly income did not exceed $48.50. Eligible families were divided into three categories, viz.. Class A, Class B, and Class C. 
These income limits for eligibility under the Subsidised Health Insurance Scheme have been adjusted from time to time, and at present the eligibility limits applying to each class of low income beneficiary are as follows: 
Class A - gross weekly family income not exceeding $46.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age means as assessed not exceeding $2,418; 
Class B - gross weekly family income not exceeding $49.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age, means as assessed not exceeding $2,574; 
Class C - gross weekly family income not exceeding $52.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age, means as assessed not exceeding $2,730. 
It is only necessary for low income families to make application to the Department of Social Services for assessment of their eligibility for assistance. Unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries automatically become eligible for assistance under the Scheme when their entitlement for the respective Social Service benefit has been granted. 
In respect of migrants, it is not necessary for separate application for assistance to be made. By joining a health insurance fund and verifying their first date of entry into Australia, migrants are eligible for assistance with medical and/or hospital expenses incurred in the first two months from the date of entry. 
In relation to low income beneficiaries, the Department of Social Services has advised that information is not available as to the number of persons who have applied for assistance. The figures below relate to the number of applications which have actually been approved by that Department. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) Members of registered medical benefit organisations are eligible for Commonwealth medical benefits for those services at the Centre which are professional medical services within the meaning of the National Health Act. For example, a chest X-ray would attract benefits while a computerised medical questionnaire would not. Payment of fund benefit is dependent upon the rules of the particular medical benefits organisation and it is expected that, in some cases, the application of these rules will exclude payment of fund benefit. The Centre proposes to issue accounts charging an overall fee for the particular series of tests undertaken. It will itemise services on these accounts according to whether fund benefit is payable and provide for a balance to be payable by the patient in each case. This means the accounts rendered to patients who are members of organisations paying fund benefits will not be itemised so as to specify separately the full range of medical services actually undertaken, lt is pointed out that, in no case, can the combined benefits exceed the charge payable and that provision for a payment by the patient is in accordance with the general approach adopted under the Medical Benefits Scheme. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Only one meeting of the Australian Health Minister's Conference has been held since March 1970. The meeting was held in Melbourne on 24th and 25th June 1971. 

The way in which the honourable gentleman made reference to the previous question he asked of me implied that I had the current responsibility for this matter. As he well knows, the Minister for Health is in another place. On that previous occasion I undertook to convey the context of his question to the Minister for Health and said that in due course the Minister for Health would provide him with the information direct. I am not aware of whether or not he has done so. However, I have had some interest in and some responsibility for this matter in the past and I have taken steps to check the situation as the honourable gentleman has described it. I have found out that the way in which the honourable gentleman has represented this matter, to imply that the low income or the subsidised health scheme has been a failure, has been completely misleading. In fact, although the scheme has not achieved everything one would have liked it to have achieved - for obvious reasons given the particular group to which it is directed - it has covered a very much larger proportion of low income earners in the Australian community than has been represented by the honourable member. 
The reason for that is that the honourable gentleman has been selective in his figures. The figures provided to him about the number of people who had enrolled or who had received assistance under the scheme were in 3 categories: Firstly, low income earners; secondly, recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits; and thirdly, migrants within 2 months of arrival. The figures did show that under the category of low income families only 11,000 families were listed. He has blown up this figure to show that the scheme has been completely unsuccessful. In fact, the figures also show that 82,000 recipients of unemployment, sickness and special benefits were enrolled under the scheme up to 30th June 1971 and that 28,000 migrants became members of funds. As the honourable member should know, the fact is that a very large proportion of the recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits and, indeed, a proportion of migrants also, are in the low income category. 
The information I have been given shows that the figure we should be looking at for an indication of the coverage of the scheme is not 11,000 low income families but in fact the 84,000 people who receive benefit which, as I think the honourable gentleman will agree, presents an entirely different picture. However, even in relation to this proportion of coverage my colleague has told me that he is not satisfied with coverage that has been achieved to date. He recently has taken steps to bring in a much simplified application form. He has taken steps to ensure that as well as the normal advertising and publicity that are undertaken in this matter, greater efforts are made by social workers, hospitals and people who have direct contact in this field. The main point I want to make is that the position taken by the honourable gentleman and picked up completely uncritically by all the Press around the country on the basis of what he says does not represent the true situation for the reasons I have given. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The 1970 Australian Health Ministers' Conference agreed to the formation of a Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council to study such matters as the planning and equipping of hospitals, the application of computers and automatic methods to hospital activities, uniform costing in health services management and studies of hospital and allied services generally. 
The Council held its inaugural meeting in November 1970. No alterations have been made to the Council's functions since its formation. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Specialist Recognition Advisory Committees and the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee were established following the enactment of the National Health Act 1970 which received the Royal Assent on 24 June 1970. In order to expedite the payment of appropriate medical benefits for services provided by specialists and consultant physicians from 1 July 1970, special action was taken, by authority of section 29D(7) of the National Health Act to recognise a number of medical practitioners as specialists or as consultant physicians for the purposes of the National Health Act during the period of some weeks after 24 June 1970 until the Committees were established. The number of specialists and consultant physicians recognised as at 30 June 1971 for the purposes of the Act, including those recognised by special action during the short period referred to, were: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1). (2), (3) and (4) Nursing home benefits are not payable according to bed classification but according to the classification of individual patients as requiring 'ordinary care' (in which case the rate of benefit is $2 a day) or 'intensive care' (in which case the total rate of benefit is S5 a day). The number of patients in each classification varies continually. 
However, in respect of nursing home benefits paid during the quarter ended 31st March 1971, the following figures provide a general indication of bed occupancy rates: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and  (2)  The number of (a) town (metropolitan area) and (b) country branches operated by each of the two biggest open health insurance funds operating in each of the States, is shown below together with details of reductions and increases in the number of these branches in each of the last  5  years: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable 'member's question: 
Statistics issued by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation prior to the commencement of the Subsidised Medical Services Scheme on 1st January 1970 indicated that about 100,000 families, comprising 300,000 people, could become eligible for assistance under the Scheme. Immediately prior to the extension from 1st July 1970 of the eligibility limits for assistance under the Scheme these statistics indicated that a further 84,000 families, comprising an additional 271,000 people could become eligible for partial subsidy. 
This information is not available. However, the following information relates to the number of applications actually approved by ,he Department of Social Services for the 12 month period ended 31st December 1970. 
The income limits applying to each category of beneficiary are as follows: 
Class A - gross weekly family income does not exceed $46.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age, means as assessed do not exceed S2418. 
Class B - gross weekly family income does not exceed $49.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age, means as assessed do not exceed $2574. 
Class C - gross weekly family income does not exceed $52.50 or, if the applicant is of pensionable age, means as assessed do not exceed $2730. 
I am aware, of course, of the shortage in Australia of donor kidneys for transplant purposes. Indeed, when I was the Minister for Health I did what I could to publicise the efforts of the Australian Kidney Foundation to bring this to public attention. The honourable member will probably remember that last year - I think it was in July - the Australian Kidney Foundation launched a large scale campaign to inform the public of the shortage of kidneys for transplant purposes and to encourage people to donate their kidneys in the event of death. The Foundation issued a large number of pamphlets and donor cards. From memory, over 400,000 were issued. In relation to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I am not aware whether any efforts have been made on the lines suggested by him, but I will bring the matter to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Health, and no doubt he will discuss it as a very practical suggestion with our colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
I am afraid that to get the detailed statistics for which the honourable gentleman asks, which I am sure will be available to my Department, I will have to ask him to put the question on notice. However, I know that the Commonwealth Statistician, who publishes the figures for settler departures from Australia, does not distinguish between assisted and non-assisted migrants to Australia. I might say on this general question of the departure of migrants from Australia that the figures for 1970-71 recently published by the Commonwealth Statistician which show that about 28,000 migrants left Australia or stated that they were leaving Australia permanently, have to be seen against the very high level of immigration that we have had in the last 3 years. 
We have taken into this country over 500,000 migrants in the 3-year period up to the end of 1970-71; so we would have expected with that very high level of migration that the number of people departing would in fact increase. But the number of people departing has not increased disproportionately to the number of people migrating. I think that we have to expect that to some extent this will happen. There has been a most remarkable increase in the mobility of labour internationally in the post-war period. Many people - professional and others - believe that as part of their training they should move from country to country. 
I think the House will be interested to know that we have calculated that provided a single migrant stays in this country for 9 months he will return to Australia by indirect and direct taxation as much as is provided to assist him to migrate to this country. However, the Government is not complacent about this question and I have asked the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council, which undertook a previous study of settlers departing from Australia to undertake a further study to ascertain whether there is anything that we can do to reduce the rate of outflow of permanent settlers from Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With the possible exception of a very small number of non-European dependent family members of European family heads who have not been recorded statistically as such, all the 307 assisted settlers from South Africa in 1969-70 were European. 
The 486 unassisted settlers were comprised as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) With the possible exception of a very small number of non-European dependent family members of European family heads who have not been recorded statistically as such all the 3,891 assisted settlers who came from unstated British Commonwealth countries in 1970 were of European descent. 
(b) The 3,041 unassisted settlers from the same countries were comprised as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (4) I refer the honourable member to parts 6 and 7 of my answer to his Question No. 2922 (Hansard of 3rd May 1971, page 2412). 
When an alien is notified of the approval of his application for naturalisation he is informed that upon naturalisation he will enjoy thesa me rights and privileges and become subject to the same responsibilities as an Australian born citizen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the number of (a) European, (b) mixed descent and (c) nonEuropean persons, and the sex of the persons in each category, who were deported in each of the last 5 financial years: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The 'open' health insurance organisations with the largest medical fund and hospital fund memberships, as at 30th June 1970, were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In a statement to Parliament on 4th March 1970 my predecessor indicated that the Government supported in principle recommendation 19 of the Nimmo Committee. 
Recommendation 19 is: 
That the National Health Insurance Commission be empowered to review claims for benefits and to initiate appropriate disciplinary action in relation to any abuses of the health insurance scheme.' (para 4.79). 
This recommendation has legal and constitutional implications which have required protracted examination. 
The Government's examination is continuing. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) (b) and (c) This information is set out in Table A below: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) As a result of a voluntary agreement between the United Kingdom Government and the tobacco industry, health warnings have been appearing on cigarette packets and in Press and poster advertisements for cigarettes since July 1971. During the last session of the United Kingdom Parliament a bill was introduced providing for similar measures by legislation; once the voluntary agreement was reached there was little support for the Bill and it was not passed. It was not supported by the Health Minister. 
Public Places: Non-smoking Areas  (Question No. 3791) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
At this stage, no. However 1 have asked my Department to obtain for me the results of the reported investigations by the British Government if these become available. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) and (3) Since the inception of the Medical Benefits Scheme, the policy has been: 
As a general rule, where a professional service as specified in the Schedule, other than an attendance, has been rendered and there is only one attendance in all, Commonwealth benefit will be available only in respect of the particular professional service and benefit for an attendance will not be paid in addition to the benefit for that particular service. 
Benefit under Part 1 of the Schedule will not be paid in addition to the benefit for minor operative procedures particularly those procedures ordinarily performed in a practitioner's surgery. 
This policy recognised the long established custom within the medical profession that the procedure and the attendance constituted a single service. Again in recognition of the established practice, an exception was made in the case where  a  medical practitioner gives  a  consultation and immediately following the consultation undertakes  a  diagnostic procedure such as an X-ray or pathology test. In such  a  case benefits are payable for the consultation and the diagnostic procedure. 
With regard to the second question concerning an amendment of the description of anaesthetists' services, an anaesthetic is administered in connection with the surgical procedure involved. The fact that a surgeon has an assistant does not in any way change the nature of the service performed by the anaesthetist. 
In the circumstances, there is no need for me either to take steps to amend the Act or to direct my Department to alter its interpretation of the provisions of the Act. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(i) The latest available estimate of the number of medical practitioners per 1,000 population in Australia is 1.2 in 1966. This estimate is derived from the 1966 Population Census, and is based on the number of persons in the workforce who were classified as having the occupation of medical practitioner. It therefore excludes those qualified as medical practitioners who were not in the workforce because of retirement or other reasons, or who were classified to other occupations such as university teaching. All doctors in the permanent armed forces are also excluded. 
(i) As at 30th June 1971, there were 6.0 hospital beds (approved for the purposes of payment of Commonwealth hospital benefits) per 1,000 population in Australia. 
and (b) (ii) to (viii) The information sought for the countries mentioned in parts (ii) to (viii) of the honourable member's question is tabulated below and has been derived from the latest issue of World Health Annual Statistics which was published by the World Health Organisation in 1970 and relates to the year 1967. In that year, there were approximately 1.2 medical practitioners and 6.2 hospital beds per thousand population in Australia. 
It should be noted that the figures shown below, particularly those relating to hospitals, are not strictly comparable with each other or with the Australian figures due to variations in definitions and differences in patterns of delivery of health care in the various countries concerned. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The. weekly family contribution charged by the major registered medical benefits organisation in each State is as follows: 
The Minister lor Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth subsidies paid to eligible organisations under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act during 1969-70 and 1970-71 are shown hereunder: 
The amounts of State assistance received by organisations which received Commonwealth subsidies under the Act during 1969-70 were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Western Australia is the only State to have made a claim for financial assistance under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. 
This claim was made on 26th May 1971. 
Western Australia has received $337,004.26. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no beds in public and private hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory which are closed down due to a shortage of nurses. 
My Department does not have information which would enable a reply to be given in respect of public and private hospitals in the various States. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Nil. 
No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable  memember's  question: ' 
No. It is not the Commonwealth's policy to seek official departmental representation in such an organisation. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None. 
None. Although certain members on the food sub-committees are employed by food manufacturers they are selected on the basis  of  their value to the sub-committees as individuals and not  as  representatives of particular organisations. The sub-committees are therefore comprised of individuals who are expert in their field and their selection is made irrespective of the groups they represent. 
Two members of the Food Standards Committee who are also members of the Council of Australian Food Technology Associations Incorporated represent the food industry as a whole. 
The information which has been collated for the honourable member is too lengthy and complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the estimated percentages of eligible persons who have been granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation in the period 1st January 1945 to 30th June 1970 in the alien national categories listed in the 1969-70 Citizenship Return: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
lt is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are  wane  ofl than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition .ind child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, '.he House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purpose:, in India and East Pakistan, and a further S50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugee--, in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The most common tee for the type of tests mentioned by the honourable gentleman, that is blood or serum tests on a multi-channel analyser, was reduced from $15 to $5 as from 1st November this year. The most common fee for the manual test remains unchanged at from $5 to $7 depending on the State in which it takes place. I make the point in passing that where there are multiple tests by the manual method there is not a repetition of the same common fee for each of them. This represents the economics of automated technology and was a decision made on the recommendation of the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee, which consists of representatives of the Australian Medical Association, the benefit funds and the Department of Health. This step certainly did not represent opposition by the AMA, and as far as I am aware there has been no opposition by the AMA. Contrary to the point implied by the honourable gentleman in the last part of his question I regard this as the very opposite of a retrograde step. I see it as a great benefit which will involve considerable savings to both the Government and the community. 
I would be glad to refer to my colleague in another place the request made in the last part of the honourable member's question. But I think I can say that I am aware that persons holding medical and hospital entitlement cards - I think from memory that the cases the honourable member quoted are in that category - can receive the benefits of the free hospital service side of the pensioner medical service only when treatment is given in a public ward of a public hospital. The background of this is that this is the traditional method by which the States who are responsible for hospital services have treated pensioners free of charge. 
When the Commonwealth came into this arrangement and made available some financial assistance on condition that the pensioners were to be treated free of charge, the Commonwealth went along with the existing system. In other words, because the States are responsible for hospital services they, of course, are responsible for saying where people will be treated and how far the benefits of this scheme will extend. I might add that this should not be a hardship. Tt is well known both to the pensioners themselves and to the medical profession that this is a condition of the pensioner medical service. If the honourable member has knowledge of a particular case where there has been difficulty in obtaining a bed in a public ward of a public hospital I suggest that he should  get  the person concerned to take it up with the State hospital authorities. 
1 have no personal knowledge of the case mentioned by the honourable gentleman. I will be glad to investigate it as he has asked. But I would make the general point that we are not in the habit of deporting people because of their political views. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under a reciprocal arrangement of many years standing between Australia and New Zealand, Australian citizens whether naturalised or bom here do. not require passports for travel to New Zealand. 1'he New Zealand authorities advised in 1955 that naturalised Australian citizens were not treated as aliens in New Zealand or required to register as such.-  However until -October 1957 the New Zealand regulations required all naturalised Australian citizens to obtain prior permission to enter New Zealand. In October 1957, following representations by the Australian Government the permit requirement was waived for naturalised Australians for visits of less than three months and in December 1963 such persons were accorded unrestricted right of entry to New Zealand, subject to production of evidence of their citizenship. 
The Department of Immigration made provision some lime ago for the issue of miniature certificates as evidence of Australian citizenship. These documents .may be obtained upon application without charge by any Australian citizen anc their availability was recently brought to the notice of. travel agents and carrier companies in Australia. (21 No record can be found of difficulties the late  Mr _  Leo Buring may have experienced in New Zealand 12 years ago. 
The Australian Government recently considered the requirements for direct travel between New Zealand and Australia and decided that there should bc no change in the existing requirements whereby all persons, other than British subjects of European descent and Maoris, require prior permission to travel to Australia unless they are in transit through Australia to other- countries. The New Zealand Government is aware of these provisions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An estimated breakdown by nationality of the 107,816 settlers, quoted in the previous reply provided to you by the Minister for Health, is given in column (1) of the following table. These figures refer to the total number of unassisted settlers in - 1970, plus estimated numbers of beads of family groups (as .well as single persons travelling alone) amongst assisted settler arrivals for the same period. - 
Column (2) of the table gives similar estimates for heads of family groups only amongst both assisted and unassisted settler arrivals. 
The answer ' to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The following tables show the number of persons in each nationality granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation in Australia and Papua New Guinea in 1970-71: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that at 30th June 1971, 228,700 aliens over the age of sixteen years were residentially qualified to apply for Australian citizenship, but had not done 'so. 
The following table shows the estimated number of persons of the principal nationalities who have not applied for citizenship: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 163 ready prepared pharmaceutical benefit items, other than those available for use in approved hospitals only were deleted from the Schedule of Benefits during 1968, 1969 and 1970  as  follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Consultations with State Ministers for Health on- all aspects of cigarette smoking have been undertaken at Health Ministers' Conferences over the past 4 years, lt is expected that the subject "will be discussed at future conferences. 
The question raised in "relation -to incentives and assistance to Australian and New Guinea tobacco growers does not come within my jurisdiction as Minister for Health. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has not taken up the Senate Select Committee's recommendation that unmatched grants be made to the States for the construction or enlargement of State nursing homes. However, following discussions with the States, the Stales Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 was enacted. This legislation provides matching grants amounting in aggregate to $5m to the States in respect of approved expenditure for the construction or alteration of premises to be used for the purposes of an approved nursing home during the 5-year period ending 30th June 1974. To date, expenditure which could attract Commonwealth grants totalling $1,348,000 has been approved in three States. 
The question of further grants- to the States for the construction or enlargement of public nursing homes - and the form of such assistance will be considered prior to the termination of the existing legislation. 
In his statement . to. the . House of. 5th October 1971, the Prime Minister indicated that the Government would continue its review of the nursing home benefits scheme with the aim of introducing new long' term arrangements as soon as it is practicable to do so. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Committee on Teaching Costs of Medical Hospitals recommended in 1961 and in 1965 the provision of grants related to costs directly attributable to the instruction of clinical students in teaching hospitals associated with universities which had medical schools. 
No. The Committee on Teaching Costs of Medical Hospitals made only two reports; the first in October1961 and the second in May 1965. 
and (4) Yes. The Minister for Education and Science has advised me that he has recently asked the Australian Universities Commission to examine again the 'question of payments to Honorary clinical teachers for their teaching services. 
I am not aware of any such undertakings. 
In its Second Report. (May 1965) to the Australian Universities Commission, the Committee on Teaching Costs of Medical Hospitals emphasised that paymentto hospital visitingstaff for their clinical teaching of undergraduates was quite distinct from payment for patient care. It follows that such issues as increased payments for clinical teachers, or the introduction of payments for teaching by visiting medical staff who formerly taught in an honorary capacity, are matters separate and distinct from the question of charges made to private patients by such teachers. I am therefore not in a position to say what effect pay increases to clinical teachers would have on their fee charging practices in respect of private patients. (7)It is a fact that medical students require adequate clinical education to become qualified to practice medicine. As indicated above, the Minister for Education and Science has asked the Australian UniversitiesCommission to re-examine the question of payments to honoraries for their teaching services. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since the introduction of the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, extensive publicity has been accorded ils operation, both in campaigns directed solely towards the workings of the Plan and by its inclusion in other Departmental literature. As from 1st November 1971 it is proposed to introduce a simplified application form for use by low income families when applying for assistance, and provision will be made on the form to enable a responsible person, such as a hospital secretary, to assist a person incapable of completing the official application form and in taking the necessary steps required in applying for the assistance available under the Plan and enrolling in a health insurance fund. In addition, I have instructed my Department to examine more effective means of inducing eligible persons to avail themselves of the assistance under the Plan and it is proposed that this examination will encompass greater utilisation of social workers, charitable organisations and other appropriate welfare groups in the community. 
Citizen Military Forces: Personnel with National Service Obligations  (Question No. 4720) 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member is aware information which may be divulged concerning the nature of discussions at Australian Health Ministers' conferences is limited to the text of press releases authorised by the Health Ministers. 
Press releases issued since 1967 by the Ministers relating to aspects of environmental pollution are as follows: - 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
For the purposes of determining the eligibility of low income families, 'income' includes the income of the claimant and members of his family, other than child endowment and certain allowances specified in regulation 20A of the National Health Regulations. 
In determining whether weekly income exceeds a particular amount, account is taken of the applicant's past income and likely future income. The period on the basis of which weekly income is determined depends mainly on the nature of the applicant's employment and the source of any income derived other than from employment. This period would not normally exceed twelve months. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The common fees for an attendance by  a  general practitioner are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician does not. dis- .tinguish between permanent departures of assisted and unassisted settlers and consequently the figures requested by the honourable member are- not available. Therefore it is not possible to - distinguish between those former settler departures who made, direct application for assisted, passage in Britain and those who were assisted following nomination in Australia. 
However statistics of total settler departures suggest that about one half of the former assisted settlers from Britain who leave Australia, do so between two and three years after their arrival, that is, within twelve months of completing their undertaking to remain here for at least two years. 
The two year undertaking is required to ensure that the Commonwealth receives a reasonable return for the grant of assisted passages. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
United States of America. . Canada, Britain, Portugal, France, Austria, The Netherlands, Germany. Greece. Japan. Hong Kong. 
Useful and wide ranging discussions on matters of mutual migration interest were conducted with relevant Ministers and officials in all of Australia's migrant source countries visited. 
As a matter of course assisted passage arrangements, social services and the recognition of professional qualifications were covered. 
Also there were discussions on new and existing migration agreements. 
None of the Governments indicated any desire for a change in the existing visa arrangements. 
For many years normal taxation concessions in respect of dependants living abroad have been available to migrants in Australia where the dependants intend to join the breadwinner in Australia. This concession ceases if the dependants du not join the head of the family within 5 years of his arrival here. Presumably these facts are known to the Governments of migrant source countries and the subject was nol raised by them. 
Negotiations and discussions on a number of matters are continuing. When the position is reached where it would be appropriate to make a public announcement on any particular item this will be done after consultation with the other Government concerned. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In relation to medical treatment under the Pensioner Medical Service, eligible pensioners and their dependants receive general practitioner surgery consultation andhome visits without charge. Most general practitioners participate in these arrangements. It is also customary for pensioners and their dependants to receive medical services without charge during any period of treatment in public hospitals, and specialists' services are usually, available to them without charge through public hospitals. It should therefore be unnecessary for an eligible pensioner to obtain medical benefits insurance unless, as a matter of personal choice, he elects to seek treatment from one of the few general practitioners who do not participate in the Pensioner Medical Service or from a private specialist. 
As regards hospital treatment, public hospitals in all States provide public ward treatment free of charge for eligible pensioners and their dependants. The Commonwealth pays a benefit of $5 per day to the hospital towards the cost of this treatment. It should therefore be unnecessary for  an  eligible pensioner to have hospital benefits insurance unless he desires to seek accommodation in a private hospital or in an intermediate or private ward of  a  public hospital. However, if by his own choice, a pensioner is accommodated in  a  private hospital or in the intermediate or private ward of  a  public hospital, the attending doctor will generally charge fees for any medical treatment, consequently,  if a  pensioner elects to obtain one of these levels of hospital accommodation, it is advisable that he also take out medical benefits insurance. In this case, the pensioner would be on the same basis of benefit entitlements as any other citizen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The relevant legislation (Migration Act Section 16 (1) (c) and Regulation 26 under that Act) provides for the control of entry to Australia of people who suffer from specific medical disabilities. Refusal of entry is not mandatory, however, and discretion is exercised on the basis of a number of factors including risks to public health, the probability of the person' concerned becoming a charge on public funds and the capacity of the person concerned to integrate into the community. Medical disqualifications are weighed against family reunion and other humanitation considerations. Applicants for assisted passages are requiredto meet even more exacting criteria, including higher physical and medical standards, but generally the consequences are that migrants on arrival are free of disabilities which would make them unemployable or lead to such deterioration of health as would require prolonged institutional care or medical attention. 
Normally therefore there are no special medical checks required or imposed on migrants after arrival in Australia. Any minor conditions from which they suffer, or disabilities which are contracted after arrival, would be treated through the ordinary medical facilities available to Australian citizens. 
Migrants who have tuberculosis which is healed or has been effectively treated are an exception to the statement above. Tuberculosis is a ubiquitous disease with a tendancy to relapse after successful recovery from the initial infection. The Commonwealth. Department of Health refers details of such cases to State Directors of Tuberculosis for action. This affords opportunity to reinforce immunity by appropriate methods in members of a sponsoring family, where this is considered necessary. The State Directors also are sent the relevant medical reports and X-rays' of such migrants who are kept under surveillance for a period determined by the Directors. 
In addition to these measures, under State legislation all migrants are required to undergo chest X-ray within one month of arrival in Australia unless this condition is waived by the State Director of Tuberculosis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of claims resulting in approved loans which were made on the Migrant Emergency Fund in each State during each of the last three financial years were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to calculate accurately fi om census statistics or other sources the number of persons, born in Australia, and currently resident here who are of non-European or mixed descent. 
The Department of Immigration maintains essential statistics of persons admitted with resident status, granted resident status after entry for temporary residence, and granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation or regisitration. 
The following answers are based on statistics maintained by the Department of Immigration and exclude persons born in Australia. The effective date is 30th June 1971. 
(a) 24,470;  (ti)  30,200. 
(a) and (b) Of the 24.470 non-Europeans. 12,650 were Australian citizens by naturalisation or registration and 11,820 had resident status. No statistics are available as to the number of persons of mixed descent granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation or registration. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth Legislation - Sections 100 and 122 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971 contain provisions to the effect that the approval of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health is required for any radio or television advertisements relating to medicines or talks on medical subjects. A published guide as to standards generally applicable to the approval of radio and television advertisements on medicines includes a provision to the effect that advertisements relating to contraceptivesw ill not be approved. 
The Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinance (section 46) and the Northern Territory Pharmacy Ordinance (section 43) contain provisions to the effect that the publishing of any statement for the purpose of promoting the sale of any contraceptive medicine, instrument or appliance is prohibited. 
State Legislation - On the basis of information obtained from the relevant State authorities, it is understood that the following State laws contain provisions relating to or having a bearing on advertising of or advice on contraception: 
New South Wales - . 
Obscene and Indecent Publications Act Victoria - 
Summary Offences Act 
Western Australia - 
Contraceptives Act 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have seen the article referred to. 
Regular avenues exist for discussion between the Commonwealth and the States on matters of the kind. No doubt, opportunities will be taken, where appropriate, to confer on the particular matters mentioned. 
Pharmaceutical Benefits: Anti-depressant Prescriptions  (Question No. 4295) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) Yes. 
(a) The actual expenditure on antidepressant drugs overseas is not known. However, for the year ended 31st March 1971, it is estimated that in England 138 anti-depressant prescriptions per thousand head of population were provided under the British National Health Service. In Australia, during the same period, and for the same group of pharmaceuticals, 110 prescriptions per 1000 head of population were supplied under the. Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
Although prescribing details for other countries are not available, ' it is known that a general marked increase in the usage of antidepressant drugs has been experienced throughout the western world. 
In Australia, the most significant increase in antidepressant pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions was recorded in 1970-71. This followed he removal in August 1970 of the restrictions on prescribing of these drugs as . benefits. However, it does not follow that the incidence of depression has risen proportionately to the increase in prescribing of anti-depressant benefit prescriptions because these drugs may have been obtained on private prescription prior to them becoming available as general pharmaceutical benefits. The usage of drugs available as pharmaceutical benefits and implications to be drawn from changes in the pattern of prescribing are under continuous surveillance. While it is not intended at this stage to conduct a special inquiry into the causes arid management of depression, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory- Committee will continue' to periodically review theusage of anti-depressant drugs listed as benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Attention is drawn to the answer to question No. 4505 (Hansard of 2nd December 1971, page 4122). 
As the greater number of persons of nonEuropean and mixed descent permanently resident in Australia are either naturalised or registered  as  Australian citizens, or are citizens of Commonwealth countries  with the  status ofBritish subjects under Australian citizenship law, they are not required to register with the Department. Their precise whereabouts are therefore not known and it  is not  possible to indicate the number in any category residing in each Stateor Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Hungarian refugees arriving in Australia under the Government's assisted passage programme, between December, 1956 to the time the scheme for Hungarian refugees ceased to operate in 1961 was 14,060. 
The number of Czechoslovakian refugees arriving in Australia from August 1968 to June, 1971 was 5,721. 
The Department of Immigration has been unable to locate any record of a statement by : he late Prime Minister  Mr Holt,  or by any other government spokesman, mentioning an offer of residence in Australia to some of the stateless non-African people who were not permitted to remain in Kenya following disturbances in that country. 
See (3) above. 
I am aware that physiotherapy, like treatment by other paramedical professions, is not included in the medical benefits scheme. As to the substance of the question, I will be glad to refer it to my colleague in another place and ask htm to supply the honourable gentleman with an answer. 
When the Government recently introduced the increase in nursing home benefits it was explained that this action was taken to meet an immediate situation of need in relation to patients in these homes and that in the meantime the Government was examining in depth the very complex situation that is involved with respect to nursing home benefits and the nursing home problem. It was stated that when it had concluded that examination it would be looking at the problem again. So I think I can say that, although the matter is not my direct responsibility, my colleague, the Minister for Health, would not be in a position to give a final answer to some of the questions asked by the honourable gentleman until that examination has been completed. However, I will pass on to him the text of the honourable gentleman's question and ask him if he will reply to him in his own way. 
If the honourable gentleman will convey to me afterwards that part of the question that he is unable to ask, 1 will ask my colleague to see whether he can have the anomaly, if there is an anomaly, corrected. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No payments have been made to date under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 1969. However, claims for fifty per cent reimbursement are expected in due course in respect of the following paramedical service schemes which have been approved under the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The majority of persons coining here from Japan to engage in employment seek to come here for limited stay. The policy and procedures which apply to such applications for temporary residence are the same for nationals of all countries subject to visa requirements and apply equally to Japanese nationals. 
Generally, Japanese nationals seeking to enter Australia for temporary residence to engage in employment, are in one of the following broad categories: 
Senior Management Personnel appointed to provide managerial direction in  a  branch company in Australia or to undertake similar duties with  a  joint venture may be granted visas authorising stays up to an initial period of  4  years. Usually, such applicants would be managerial staff of companies operating in Australia and executives of large overseas trading companies. Japanese in this category may extend their stay beyond the initial period of 4 years. 
Nonexecutive, professional and technical specialist staff for employment with Australian branches of overseas companies, joint ventures, and Australian companies may be granted visas to come here for varying periods, up to a maximum of 2 years, depending inter alia on the nature and duration of the project and of the specialist skills involved where: - 
a special need for the applicant's services has been established; and 
the persons concerned have some particular expertise and specialist skills not readily available locally - the employer may be required to take reasonable steps to test the local labour market by seeking to obtain suitably qualified workers in Australia. 
Where overseas-based personnel are introduced under these provisions the policy adopted is that every reasonable opportunity must be given to locally-engaged workers to enjoy the benefits to be derived from work on developmental and other projects carried out in this country. Similarly it is generally a condition of their entry that the employer take steps to ensure that workers recruited in Australia be given an opportunity to learn the specialist skills possessed by the expatriate workers. This envisages the introduction of suitable training arrangements by the employer. Such conditions are directed to ensuring that Australia will not need continually to rely on the importation of short-term labour to obtain the benefit of these skills and so that, in appropriate cases, expatriate personnel may progressively be repatriated as locally-engaged workers become competent to carry out their functions. 
A standard condition of entry is always that the personnel admitted to Australia must receive wages and work under conditions no less favourable than those applying to Australian workers engaged on comparable work and that all relevant Australian industrial laws, awards and agreements apply in respect of the expatriate personnel. 
Applications within this group are normally the subject of consultations with the Department of Labour and National Service which advises on industrial relations and employment aspects. 
Entertainers and Sportsmen may be granted short-term entry in order to fulfil specific engagements. They need to be sponsored by a reputable entrepreneur who is required to guarantee their maintenance and return bookings. In the case of entertainers the Department of Labour and National Service is consulted as to any industrial relations or employment aspects posed by the proposed entry. This latter procedure does not apply in the case of performers of international repute. 
The requirements to be met by persons whose entry for temporary residence has been approved depend upon the proposed period of stay in Australia. These are: 
Up to and including twelve months 
Applicants should be in sound health and of good character but no physical examination or inquiries are required. 
Over twelve months 
Full medical examination (including X-ray) has to be completed satisfactorily. In addition applicants are required to produce a certificate of non-criminal record. 
Arrivals of Japanese for temporary residence over the last five financial years are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) The health services field is extensive, covering such areas as hospitals, nursing homes, mental health institutions, medical services, community health, environmental health and quarantine. Research in these fields is being undertaken in universities, government departments and agencies, voluntary health and welfare agencies and private commercial organisations, as well as by private individuals. I am not aware of the full extent of the research being undertaken throughout Australia in all these fields and am therefore unable to provide details of the projects being undertaken or the allocation of finance. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
An article in the Medical Journal of Australia of 23rd October 1971, contributed by the Director of the Intensive Care Unit of the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, stated that tricyclic anti-depressant overdosage is now the most common cause of admission of children to hospital for drug overdosage and that admissions from that cause have trebled. Information on this aspect from the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, Sydney, is not readily available but it is understood that there is an impression that there has been an increase in drug overdosage from anti-depressants among children admitted to that hospital. 
The medical profession is expected to be familiar with the potential hazards of all drugs and to issue appropriate warnings to their patients, particularly where there is a possibility that children could have access to the drugs. Poisoning of children with drugs is related principally to the careless storage of drugs in the home and is not a new problem. Changes in the incidence of poisoning with  a  particular drug can be related to changes in prescribing habits of doctors. 
In I960, the Commonwealth established the National Poisons Service. The Commonwealth also issues the National Poisons Register Manual, which contains details of the toxic constituents of  a  wide variety of chemical compounds, together with advice on appropriate diagnosis and treatment of poisoning. There is a close liaison between the National Poisons Service and Poisons Information Centres in the States and Territories. 
Particular attention has also been given to the pan which safety containers may play in preventing the poisoning of children. In August 1970, the Director-General of Health wrote to all approved chemists, drawing their attention to a statement by the National Health and Medical Research Council at its 70th Session, in April 1970. At that session, Council expressed its concern at the incidence of poisoning in young children and commended the use of tablet containers that cannot readily be opened by young children. The DirectorGeneral of Health drew attention to the fact that there are containers of a type which was referred to by Council available in Australia and that, insofar as pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are concerned, such containers come within the allowance provided by the Commonwealth for reimbursement of container costs. The DirectorGeneral urged chemists to give serious consideration to the problem of poisoning in childhood and to the feasibility of implementing the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council concerning the use of safety closures for dispensed medicines. 
(a) and (b) In the year ended 31st October 1971, 666,715 prescriptions for anti-depressants were provided as pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners and their dependants at no cost to the patient. In the same period 1,502,291 prescriptions were dispensed as pharmaceutical benefits to persons other than pensioners and their dependants at a cost of 50 cents patient contribution per prescription. 
Figures relating to the usage of anti-depessant drugs provided in public hospitals and on non- pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are not available to my Department. 
Figures relating to production costs of antidepressant drugs are not available to my Department. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. When age pensioners are issued with hearing aids by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories, the aids are fitted with batteries. However, the replacement of batteries is the responsibility of the recipient of the hearing aid. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5). Commonwealth and fund medical benefits are payable for both a consultation and a blood test where both services are performed on the one occasion. However, it is assumed that the honourable member is concerned with the situation where, in the course of a consultation, a doctor collects a blood specimen from the patient for forwarding to another doctor for  a  pathology test. In such a situation, the collection of the blood specimen is deemed to form part of the consultation and benefits are payable for the attendance only. 
While some doctors have followed a practice of making a separate charge for the collection of  a  blood specimen, medical benefit organisations have been reminded that separate benefits are not payable for this service in such circumstances. 
Co-operative Pharmacies  (Question No.  4376) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)(a) and (b) Yes. 
and (5) When the patient contribution towards the cost of pharmaceutical benefits was introduced in 1960, it was intended that all persons, except pensioners, would pay the 50c charge. However, members of Friendly Societies paying membership contributions to cover the cost of their medicines were allowed to receive a rebate on all or part of the patient contribution, depending upon the particular Society's rules. Between 1960 and 1964, it became apparentto the Government that its policy of patient participation in the cost of the Scheme was in jeopardy. The Government therefore introduced the 1964 amendments to provide that rebate provisions would be restricted to persons receiving them immediately prior to 24th April 1964. 
In 1964, it was decided not to allow new insurance against the patient contribution towards the cost of pharmaceutical benefits. This remains the Government's policy. 
There is insufficient information available  on  this matter  to  enable a definitive answer  to be  provided. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Council has met on 2 occasions. 19th November 1970 and 23rd September 1971. Formal membership of the Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council comprises 2 representatives from each of the State Health Departments and the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
The Repatriation Department is represented by observers at Council meetings. 
The Minister for Health  has  provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
One of the functions of the NH &amp; MRC is to inquire into, advise and make recommendations to the Commonwealth and the Slates on matters of public health legislation and administration and on any other matters relating to health, medical and dental care and medical research. 
The first session of the NH &amp; MRC was held in February 1937. The Council has since met at least twice a year, with advice and recommendations on a wide range of matters affecting the health of the community flowing from these sessions to both Commonwealth and State Governments. A complete record of recommendations made by the Council is available in the form of sessional reports, but the magnitude of the task of extracting details of each individual recommendation from these reports makes it impracticable to provide a complete answer to the honourable member's question. Recent sessional reports of Council are available in the Parliamentary Library. Specific information on any particular subject of the Council's recommendations could be made available to the honourable member if he so requested. Listed below, under broad headings, are the main subjects on which the Council has considered it necessary or desirable to provide advice or recommendations. controls over the possession, use, storage and labelling of drugs and poisons; industrial hygiene and occupational health; maternal and child health; dental health; environmental factors which may affect health; prevention and control of mental illness, and the care and rehabilitation of patients with menial illness; traffic injuries; health education; recruitment and training of nurses, and the practice of nursing; matters relating to ionising radiation; the promotion and preservation of health in the tropics; and medical statistics on human morbidity and mortality. 
Medical Benefits Organisations: Revenues  (Question No.  3682)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What payments were made to the medical benefits organisations by (a) their members and (b) the Commonwealth in 1970-71. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1970-71 medical benefits organisations received the following amounts: 
from their contributors  -  $97,374,604 
from the Commonwealth- $95,604,311 (Note - These figures are subject to confirmation). 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The operating expenses of medical benefits organisations during 1970-71 totalled $14,271,170. 
These operating expenses were equivalent to 14.6 per cent of the total amount of contributions received by the organisations during 1970-71. (Note - The above figures are subject  to  confirmation). 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1970-71, hospital benefits organisations received the following amounts: 
from their contributors- $138,057,200 
from the Commonwealth- $45,808,560 (Note - These figures are subject to confirmation) 
Health Insurance: Information for Migrants  (Question No.  4234)  Mr Kennedy  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
By what means do representatives of (a) Commonwealth and (b) medical benefits organisations ensure that migrants arriving by .(i) air and (ii) ship are informed of their eligibility for the subsidised health insurance scheme. 
Were measures planned for advertising this, scheme through literature printed, in foreign languages. 
If so, were these measures deferred because of the Government's economy drive in February. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Information concerning health benefits, including specific information on the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, is included in a booklet printed in 20 languages which is provided by the Department of Immigration to migrants before embarkation for Australia. A programme of advertising was carried out by the Department of Health in foreign language newspapers and in foreign language radio sessions late in 1969 and early in 1970, to assist in the introduction of the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. 
The major health benefits organisations in all States have co-operated in producing information brochures especially for migrants. These brochures are printed in appropriate foreign languages. They are distributed overseas through airline and shipping companies concerned with the carriage of migrants, and through travel agents and Australian banks. Several of the major health benefit organisations have migrant advisory officers who visit Commonwealth hostels and, on request, provide migrants with information concerning the health benefits system. 
and (3) Economy measures have had a bearing on the deferment of proposals for further advertising of the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan in foreign languages. However, as indicated in the reply to question (1), action has been, and continues to be, taken with a view to ensuring that information concerning the Plan is readily available to migrants in foreign languages. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
and (3) Consideration is being given to the establishment of an Australian high security animal quarantine station, one of the purposes of which would be to facilitate the importation of new strain!, of animal genetic material without risk of introducing exotic animal diseases. 
In present circumstances, the current animal and plant quarantine restrictions arc essential to prevent the entry of exotic animal and plant diseases. However, they do not preclude the importation with safety of new animal and plant genetic material on a limited basis. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information available to my Department indicates that such a levy would not be sufficient for either of these purposes. 
Any such levy would primarily involve my colleague, the Treasurer. However, it should be noted that any levy or tax through which revenue derived from a particular source would be hypothecated for a particular purpose would be contrary to the essential requirements and objectives of national budgeting. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The aggregate reserves of the medical benefits organisations as at 30th June 1971 totalled $32,397,043. 
The aggregate reserves decreased, rather than increased, during 1970-71. The amount by which they decreased during 1970-71 was equivalent to 1.5 per cent of the total amount of contributions received by medical benefits organisations during that year. (Note: The above figures are subject to confirmation). 
The above figures relate to 'free' reserves, i.e., they exclude amounts set aside in respect of unpresented claims and contributions paid in advance. 
The Government has adopted a policy under which larger organisations' 'free' reserves will generally be limited to the equivalent of three months' contribution income. In the case of smaller organisations, more flexibility is being allowed and their 'free' reserves may be permitted to exceed that level in appropriate circumstances. 
This policy was implemented for medical benefits organisations in conjunction with the introduction of the Health Benefits Plan on I July, 1970. The contribution rates set at that time were designed to reduce or, if necessary, increase each organisation's 'free' reserve level to an amount equivalent to three months' contribution income in the case of the larger organisations and equivalent to six months' contribution income in the case of the smaller organisations. These reductions or increases are expected to occur gradually. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
No. 1 understand that the industry will not cease the manufacture of any particular brands of cigarettes. However, the industry has set for itself maximum levels of tar and nicotine content in cigarettes, and I am informed that all brands of cigarettes will be within those levels. 
The Canadian Minister for National Health and Welfare announced an increase in the budget for the 'Smoking and Health Programme'. This Programme covers research into the effects of smoking on health and the dissemination of information about those effects. The 1971-72 budget which has been approved for these purposes is $350,000 (Canadian), compared wilh $173,000 (Canadian) previously. 
Yes. 
and (8) During 1970, the Government undertook a review of cigarette advertising on radio and television. Arising out of this review, it was decided that lo reinforce health education programmes on the hazards of smoking, the voluntary code governing the advertising of cigarettes should be revised. The Government therefore undertook discussions wilh representatives of the cigarette manufacturing industry, media representatives and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The resultant revised code became effective on 1st October 1971, and is basically an attempt to move the emphasis of cigarette advertising on television and radio away from children. 
and (10) The Government is guided in these matters by the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council. The Council has recommended that cigarette packets should bear warning labels. The Government has indicated that when all State Governments have introduced legislation requiring such labels, similar legislation will be introduced in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. 
This matter is one far my colleague, the Treasurer. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
2,399 beds. 
1,507 beds. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The operating expenses of the hospital 1)onefits organisations during 1970-71 totalled $12,763,901. 
These operating expenses were equivalent o 9.2 per cent of the total amount of contributions received by the organisations during 1970-71. (Note: These figures are subject to confirmation.) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Subsidised Health Benefits Plan commenced operation on 1st January 1970. As from 1st July 1970, the Plan was extended to provide graduated assistance with health insurance contributions to low income families whose weekly income slightly exceeds the eligibility limit for full assistance. 
and (3) When the Plan was introduced, a special advertising campaign was carried out in January, February and March 1970. The campaign utilised major metropolitan and country newspapers and the foreign language press. There was also extensive radio advertising. The cost of this campaign was $43,000. 
In January 1970, 500,000 copies ot a pamphlet titled 'Subsidised Medical Services' were distributed to health insurance organisations, hospitals and doctors. In July 1970, 500,000 copies of a revised pamphlet containing details of the new income eligibility limits were distributed through the same channels. The cost of producing each issue of these pamphlets was approximately (2,000. 
In April 1971, 750,000 copies of a pamphlet titled 'Help with Health Insurance' were issued when income eligibility limits for assistance under the Plan were again revised. The cost of producing these pamphlets was $3,025. 
In addition  to  publicity directed solely at the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, this assistance has been outlined in material publicising health benefits generally. In July and August 1970, an advertising campaign was carried out through Press, radio and television following the introduction  of  the new Health Benefits Plan. Details of the system  of  graduated eligibility for subsidised benefits were included in this 'campaign, the cost of which was $83,000. Similarly, during July and September 1970, 4,500,000 copies of a booklet titled 'A Guide to the Health Benefits Plan' were issued and 4.000.000 copies of a pamphlet titled 'Your Guide to Medical Insurance' were distributed. A prominent section on subsidised health benefits was included in both the booklet and the pamphlets. 
The entitlement certificates have been simplified, with the aim of explaining to the beneficiary, in as simple language as possible, how the assistance available under the plan may be obtained. 
A simplified application form has also been introduced, for use by low income families when applying for assistance. The new form may be completed and signed by a person other than the applicant, for example, the applicant's family doctor. In these cases, the entitlement certificate would be sent, not to the applicant himself, but to the person who assisted him by completing the application form. 
I have also instructed my Department to examine more effective ways of encouraging eligible persons to participate in the Plan, lt is envisaged that the examination will encompass wider use of social workers, charitable organisations and other appropriate welfare groups in the community. 
Civil Aviation:  Qantas  Boeing  747  Services  (Question No. 3468)  Mr Lionel  Bowen asked the Minister representing the Minister  for Civil  Aviation,  upon notice: 
Did the Government make any objection to the covenant in section 8 (d) of the agreement with the Boeing company and Eximbank for the purchase of four Boeing 747 aircraft. 
Does the restrictive covenant in this agreement prevent Qantas from using these aircraft in many countries of the world. 
Are the countries to which such a flight embargo applies determined by section 620 (f) of the Foreign Assistance Act 1961 of the United States of America. 
Which countries are defined in this Act. 
Can he say whether Pan-Am and other United States airlines operate to and from these defined counties; if so, what are these countries. 
Can he say whether other airlines operate to and from these defined countries using United States manufactured aircraft, if so, what are the airlines and which countries do they operate to and from. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (!) No. Australia does not favour dual nationality, but recognises it where it occurs. 
Whether a person loses his original nationality upon becoming an Australian citizen depends entirely upon the nationality law of the country of his original nationality. Australia does - not require that an applicant for Australian citizenship should divest himself of any other citizenship he may possess before he is granted Australian citizenship. 
No. 
1 am unable to provide a complete list of countries which allow their citizens to hold dual nationality. 
However it is known that migrants from some countries retain their original nationality, upon becoming Australian citizens. These include migrants from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Roumania, Switzerland, Turkey, the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia. 
Immigration: Special Passage Assistance Programme (Question No. 4057)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In which countries does the Special Passage Assistance Programme operate. 
How many persons of (a) European, (b) partly European and (c) non-European descent migrated from each of these countries to Australia in the latest year for which statistics are available. 
How many applications affecting persons in each category in each country were (a) received, (b) approved and (c) rejected under the programme in that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Special Assitance Programme was introduced to provide unilateral passage-cost assistance to desirable migrants of European descent who could not be assisted under other migration agreements or arrangements. Its operation is limited geographically only by the exclusion of certain countries such as New Zealand and Canada and the Iron Curtain countries. 
In practice the great majority of migrants travelling under the Special Passage Assistance Programme come from the countries of western Europe and the Americas. 
The following are the major source-areas for immigration under the Special Passage Assistance Programme: 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Please refer lo the attached tables. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Rubella vaccine - Issues to Stales to 31*1 October 1971: 
School-children immunised to 31st October 1971: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The respective State Governments are responsible for the provision of State health services including community health ' centres. Under the Commonwealth/Slates financial arrangements, funds are already made available to (he States for this purpose. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) This information is not available, as provision for the registration of specialists as such does not exist in all States and Territories. However, provision has been made in the National Health Act for the recognition of specialists and consultant physicians. This recognition relates to the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits at higher rates for certain medical services when rendered by specialists and consultant physicians, following referral of the patient. At 30 September 1971, there were 5,782 specialists and consultant physicians recognised under the National Health Act. (3), (4) and (5) This information is not available. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. On 9th August 1971, the New South Wales Government increased outpatient charges in public hospitals in that State. The amounts charged for these services are, of course, a mutter for determination by the State Government, not the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance recommended that the Commonwealth and State Governments should work towards the integration of outpatient services into the health insurance scheme. This is one of the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee relating to hospital fees and benefits, consideration of which has not been finalised by the Government 
The question of including outpatient services within the medical benefits scheme has policy and financial implications not only for the Commonwealth but also for the Stales, and involves negotiations with the State Governments. However, I would point out the majority of registered medical benefit organisations- pay ancillary benefits from the medical funds to outpatients treated at public hospitals. 
Hospitals: Commonwealth and State Conferences (Question No. 3677)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister representing the. Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) date, (b) nature and (c) outcome of any communications between the Commonwealth and any State since May 1970 concerning the cost and method of carrying out the hospital recommendations made by- the Nimmo Committee on 18th March 1969 (Hansard, 3rd May 1971, page 2413). 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On '24th June 1971, relevant recommendations ' by the Nimmo Committee were discussed at the Australian Health Ministers' Conference, the proceedings of which are generally confidential. 
Recommendation 17 by the Nimmo Committee related to honorary and concessional services rendered by the medical profession, including such services rendered in public hospitals. This subject was discussed by Commonwealth and State officers on 23rd July and 24th September 1971. No firm decisions have yet been reached as a result of those discussions. 
In its recommendation 7, the Committee proposed that 'the hospital insurance scheme be rationalised by confining benefit tables to 3 benefits each equal to one of the 3 levels of hospital fees in force in each of the States - standard, intermediate and private wards'. This matter was discussed by Commonwealth and State officers on a number of occasions during the period 1st March-1 st October 1971, prior to the restructuring of hospital benefit table's, which was based on recommendation 7. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
During the year ended 30th June 1969, the latest year for which comparable figures are available, the average cost per occupied bed/day (including outpatients' costs) in public hospitals was met from the following sources, in the proportions shown: 
Commonwealth Benefit1- 
Commonwealth hospital benefits - 11.4 per cent 
Commonwealth pharmaceutical benefits for in-patients - 4 6 per rent 
Patients' Fees, including payments of fund benefits to insured patients - 27.3 per cent 
Other Sources - 56.3 per cent 
Notes: 
All figures shown above exclude the cost of treatment of tuberculosis patients in tuberculosis hospitals and sanatoria, and in general public hospitals. 
lt is not possible to show the amount of fund benefits included in 'patients' fees' as a separate amount. 
'Other sources' includes Stale Government financial assistance, Commonwealth Grantsinaid to Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory hospitals, sundry donations, etc. 
Commonwealth hospital benefits are payable in respect of patients in approved public and private hospitals as follows: 
Where a charge is made - 
insured patients - $2.00 per day  
uninsured patients - $0.80 per day 
Where no charge is made - 
pensioner patients treated in public wards of approved pu hi ic hospitals - $5.00 
other patients - $2.00 per day 
The porportion of current hospital fees represented by the Commonwealth payments shown in (2) above is shown below: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The reserves of medical and hospital benefits organisations in each State during each of the last 5 years were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The requirement for members of friendly society dispensaries to pay the fifty cents patient contribution, in respect of pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions, was introduced with effect from 24th April 1964. Only members who joined friendly society dispensaries after that dale were required to pay the patient contribution, which was then 50 cents. 
This requirement was introduced because of the growth in membership of friendly society dispensaries after the implementation of the fifty cents patient contribution from 1st March 1960. The Government was concerned that the intended deterrent effect of the patient contribution was in danger of being nullified, firstly, because of the growth in membership of friendly society dispensaries and secondly, because other organisations were seriously considering entering the field of rebate insurance on the fifty cents, patient contribution. 
During the Government's recent consideration of the level of patient contribution for general pharmaceutical benefits is also considered the position of members of friendly society dispensaries. In the recent amendment to the National Health Act the rights of persons who joined friendly societies prior to 24th April 1964 to receive rebates up to' the full amount of the new patient contribution, viz., one dollar, have been preserved. 
Health: Hospital Benefit Organisations - Reserves (Question No. 3681)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What have been the aggregate reserves of the hospital benefits organisations in 1970-71. 
What percentage of contributions did the increase in reserves represent. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The aggregate reserves of the hospital benefits organisations as at 30th June 1971 totalled $103,389,877. 
The amount by which they increased during 1970-71 was equivalent to 13.8 per cent of the total amount of contributions received by hospital benefits organisations during that year. (Note: the above figures are subject to confirmation.) 
The above reserves are 'free* reserves, i.e., they exclude amounts set aside in respect of unpresented claims and contributions paid in advance. 
The Government has adopted a policy under which larger organisations 'free' reserves will generally be limited to the equivalent of 3 months' contribution income. In the case of smaller organisations, more flexibility is being allowed and their 'free' reserves may be permitted to exceed that level in appropriate circumstances. 
This policy was implemented in conjunction with the increases in hospital charges in each State during 1971. The contribution rates set when these increases occurred were designed to reduce or, if necessary, increase each organisation's 'free' reserve level to an amount equivalent to 3 months' contribution income in the case of the larger funds and equivalent to 6 months' contribution income in the case of the smaller organisations. These reductions or increases are expected to occur gradually. 
Education: Boarding Schools in Territories (Question No. 4257)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science upon notice: 
How many places were provided for (a) boys and (b) girls in secondary courses to board at (i) government hostels, (ii) Catholic schools and (iii) other non-government schools in each State and 
Territory in the most recent year tor which information is available. (Hansard, 15th September 1971, page 1312). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows: 
the number of persons of each nationality who were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation between 1st January 1945 and 30th June 1971; and 
the estimated percentage of eligible persons of each nationality who were granted Australia citizenship during the same period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Please  see the  following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reasons for the rejection of applications are now usually recorded under (a) general unsuitability and (b) medical, and radiological reasons. An application may be rejected on either or both of those grounds. 
The answers to parts (1) and (3) of your question are contained in the attached tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed information covering the policies of the countries listed in regard to entry for settlement into their respective countries is not available. 
and (3) It has long been generally acknowledged that each country has a right to determine its own immigration policy; it is not appropriate that the Australian Government should comment on the policies of others. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Guest workers in Germany contribute to the compulsory insurance scheme. 
(i) and (ii) Complete details of the eligibility conditions tinder the Federal Republic of Germany's social security scheme are not known. It is understood that 15 years of contributions is required for old age pensions and 5 years for invalidity and survivors benefits. 
The benefits are payable to guest workers who remain in Germany 
It is understood, however, that if a reciprocal agreement exists with that country, benefits may be payable in their home country, and that reciprocal agreements may also provide for benefits to be paid in a third country provided that the contributor concerned has retained the citizenship of his home country. 
In 1970-71 2,790 persons migrated from Germany under the Special Passage Assistance Programme and the majority of these were guest workers. 
As they have usually been in Germany for less than the 15 year qualifying residential period, the question of transfer of benefits rarely arises with guest workers who subsequently migrate to Australia. 
No statistical information is available to answer this part of the question. 
I understand that the proposed agreement between Canada and West Germany has not yet been ratified and, as stated in my answer to part 3 of question 3417, details of the agreement have not been made public. 
See answer te question 3417, part 4, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Migration and Settlement Agreement between Australia and Italy, signed on 26 September 1967, was ratified on 8 June 1971 by an exchange of instruments in Rome. 
No, it is not correct that the Prime Minister of Fiji requires a visa to visit Australia, as has been so often mischievously written in the Press. As a British subject holding an official position, the Prime Minister of Fiji is free to visit Australia without requiring a visa. I think that this should be known and understood. There is a great deal of misunderstanding about visas. It does not appear to be generally understood that the general policy of the Government is that it is necessary to have a visa to visit Australia. That general policy applies to most people in the world. There is one exception, apart from the one 1 have just mentioned which is a comparatively minor one. The exception is in relation to British Europeans. They do not need visas, for reasons which go a long way back into our history. But apart from British Europeans, everybody else in the world requires a visa to visit this country. Therefore, there is no distinction made between a Frenchman, an American, a Fijian, an Indian or anybody else in this respect. I believe that that should be clearly understood. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is assumed that the honourable member's question relates to the number of families on low incomes who have enrolled in health insurance organisations and thereby received the support available under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. The following information relates to those persons who have registered specifically as low income families during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
One-third subsidy- 633 
Two-thirds subsidy- 885 
Full Subsidy- 9,843 
It should also be noted that a significant proportion of those enrolled in health insurance organisations under the Subsidised Health BenefitsPlan, by virtue of being in receipt of unemployment, sickness or special benefit from the Department of Social Services, could also be regarded as families on low incomes. It is not necessary for these persons to pay any health insurance contributions to obtain the assistance available under the Plan. For the year ended 30th June 1971, 82,593 such persons were registered with health insurance organisations. 
This information is not available. 
It is not possible to provide expenditure for the individual classes of beneficiaries under the Plan, but total expenditure on Commonwealth and fund benefits, and reimbursement to organisations of management expenses incurred in the operation of the Plan for the year ended 30th June 1971, was as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. In this report there are no recommendations made by the Sub-committee itself, but various suggestions and recommendations were made by the witnesses who appeared before it. In April 1970 the United States authorities suspended registration for liquid formulations of 2,4,5-T for use around the home and all formulations for use in aquatic areas; they also announced the cancellation of registration of all non-liquid formulations of 2,4,5-T for use around the home and on food crops grown for direct human consumption. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, which took over several of the functions of the Department of Agriculture in this connection, in March 1971 announced that it had issued cancellations for the use of 2,4,5-T. There will be public hearings in this regard and information is that it may take up to a year for a firm decision to be made as to whether any further limitations on the use of 2,4,5-T should be introduced. The distinction between cancellation and suspension in the United States is that suspension would involve the cessation of inter-state movements of the pesticide, whereas cancellations are really notice of intention to cancel the registration of a substance. 
(a) and (b) The National Health and Medical Research Council which is an expert advisory body on health matters to the Commonwealth and Stales, at its 70th Session in April 1970 made the following statement: 
Council considered recent reports of teratogenic abnormalities in mice and rats following administration of large oral doses of the weedicide 2,4,5-T. This substance is included in Section III of the Recommended Tolerances for residues of Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals in Foods as published at Appendix VI to the Report of the Sixty-eighth Session of Council. No residues have been detected and none is permitted in or upon food. Council considered that the scientific evidence available required verification because the work done did not specifically incriminate 2,4,5-T as a toxicological hazard to humans. Until this information is available Council recommended: 
the use of 2,4,5-T in areas where water contamination could occur should not be permitted; 
all persons exposed to 2,4,5-T in its manufacture and use should use special precautions, such as protective clothing to ensure that skin absorption did not occur; 
until further evidence is available, special precautions should be taken to avoid exposure of women, particularly those in the child-bearing age group to 2,4,5-T.' 
The relevant State authorities have been notified of this statement and I am informed that, arising out of the application of State legislation to chemicals used for agricultural, pastoral and horticultural purposes, 2,4,5-T on retail sale in Australia is labelled with safely directions. 
In so far as the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory are concerned, the authorities responsible for control of catchment areas in respect of public water supplies have been informed of the National Health and Medical Research Council statement, with particular reference to that section of the statement relating to water contamination. 
I am informed that, in the near future, the question of listing 2,4,5-T in the Uniform Poisons Schedules will be considered by the Poisons Schedules Sub-Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. If, arising out of consideration of this question, the Council recommends such listing, that recommendation will provide a basis for the imposition of controls over the sale of 2,4,5-T under State and Territory legislation. 
No. At present there is insufficient scientific evidence to suggest a need for restrictive recommendations concerning 2,4-D. 
This has already been done. All pesticides, including herbicides, are kept under continual review by expert committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The total payments made to or on behaf of their members by hospital benefits organisations during 1970-71 were: 
fund benefits- $132,354,797 
Commonweath benefits- $22,319,099. 
(a) During 1970-71, the mean number of contributors to hospital benefits organisations approximated 4,079,000. (b) This information is not available. 
(a) 1,474,423 claims (b) 1,395,191 claims. 
The average amounts of hospital benefits paid in respect of the above claims were: 
fund benefits- $89.76 
Commonwealth benefits- $16.00. 
The only significant reason for refusing fund benefits was in respect of claims relating to hospitalisation during the waiting periods for new contributors; approximately 1.3 per cent of claims were included in this category. Contributors are not entitled to payment of hospital fund benefits unless they have been members of a fund for a period of 2 months before the particular hospital expense is incurred. Exceptions are made in the case of accidents where no waiting period applies and in obstetric cases, where the waiting period is 9 months. 
The number of registered hospital benefits organisations decreased from 103 at 30th June 1970 to 93 at 30th June 1971. 
The following table contains details of the percentages of the population in each State and the Commonwealth, who were (i) contributing to hospital benefits organisations and (ii) covered for hospital benefits (i.e. including dependants), as at 30th June 1971: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Both the Opposition's proposals and those of the Australian Dental Association are insufficiently precise to enable reliable costings to be made. Therefore, costings have not been made by my Department. 
In replying to  Senator Jessop  on 9th November 1971, 1971, I stated that the additional costs to the Commonwealth involved in the Opposition's revised proposals would be between$239m and $249m for three items - medical and hospital benefits, school dental health, and the listing of oral contraceptives as a pharmaceutical benefit. Of these items, school dental health was estimated at$45m. 
This figure for school dental health was an estimate included in  Dr Gun's  proposal. My proviso that the estimate has every indication of some unreliability stems from  Dr Gun's  paper itself. In this paper he stated, inter alia. 
Accurate costs of comprehensive school dental services are difficult to forecast. A rough idea can be obtained by extrapolating costs of the present services in South Australia to the costs if the services were expanded to fulfil the estimated needs in that State.' 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) It is not possible to provide answers to the questions asked by the honourable member in the form presented. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In my Press Statement of 17th November 1971, I stated that this type of advertising was contrary to the Commonwealth Government's aim of preventing the abuse of drugs. 
Yes. 
Caffeine is the principal pharmacologically active ingredient in tea, coffee and the product in question. Caffeine is a stimulant, but A.P.C. powders contain other pharmacologically active ingredients. 
My Government has no desire to encourage the excessive use of any harmful product. As the honourable member is aware, steps have been taken regarding the advertising of products containing stimulants, and a voluntary agreement currently governs the advertising of cigarettes on television and radio. The Commonwealth has no legislative powers in the matter of advertising of tea and coffee, which are regarded as foods. In any case, I consider that it is reasonable that there should exist, in matters such as these, some personal responsibility. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) No. (b) Commonwealth benefits are payable in respect of patients in approved hospitals receiving hospital treatment as defined in the National Health Act, that is, accommodation and nursing care for the purpose of professional attention. 
Professional attention is defined in the Act as meaning: 
medical or surgical treatment by or under the supervision of a medical practitioner, 
obstetric treatment by or under the supervision of a medical practitioner or registered obstetric nurse; or 
dental treatment by or under the supervision of a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner. 
A patient who receives physiotherapy in the circumstances set out above may receive Commonwealth hospital benefits. 
The provision of Commonwealth medical benefits for physiotherapy, services can only be considered in conjunction with the claims for similar benefits for other services such as optometry and home nursing etc. A major consideration in any proposal to expand the present benefits is the additional burden which would necessarily be placed on Australian taxpayers who, in 1970-71, provided from the National Welfare Fund $427m for expenditure on National Health alone. The estimate for 1971-72 is $5 10m, an increase of $80 m. However, the question of the inclusion of benefits for paramedical services is currently being examined by my Department. As the issues involved are of a complex nature and involve policy considerations which will be a matter for determination by the Government, it may be some time before the examination is completed. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question of including the cost of hospital out-patient services in the Medical Benefits Scheme is extremely complex and has policy and financial implications not only for the Commonwealth but also for the States, the medical profession and the registered medical benefits organisations. The Commonwealth is not in a position to move on this complex issue at this time but the matter is being investigated. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated additional cost of the proposal to allow persons, qualifying under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, to continue to receive National Health Scheme prescription benefits for SO cents for each prescription is $247,000 for a full year. 
It is estimated that the additional cost of allowing these people to receive prescription benefits without payment of the SO cent patient contribution and on the same basis as persons in receipt of pensioner pharmaceutical benfits would be $2.1m for a full year. This estimate was made on an assumption that the level of utilization would rise above that applicable to the general public other than pensioners, because a wider list of benefits would be available but would not be as high as that applicable to aged and invalid pensioners. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I understand that,in the field of general advertising, it is believed that short repeated advertisements may have an impact greater than long films or brochures. However, I am not aware of any evidence relating to the differential effect of such advertisements on cigarette consumption. The factors which influence people to smoke or not to smoke are complex and, in certain overseas countries, cigarette consumption has continued to rise despite complete cessation of radio and television advertising of cigarettes. For this reason, I consider that any opinion given in relation to the matter raised in the honourable member's question would necessarily be subjective. 
This is one of the objectives of the restrictions mentioned. 
The Government considers that educational campaigns in schools provide a sound basis for an informed decision by the individual on whether or not to smoke. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not necessary that such a claim be determined before payment of Commonwealth hospital benefits may be made. Section 59 (3) of the National Health Act enables provisional payments of Commonwealth hospital benefits to be made in circumstances when it appears that a qualified hospital patient may have an entitlement to compensation or damages but has not established that entitlement. The payment of fund hospital benefits is determined under the rules of each registered benefits organisation. Generally, fund benefits are not payable in respect of any period of hospitalisation which is or may be covered by third party or workers' compensation insurance. 
Settlements of third party claims are based on State or Territory legislation and do not come within the ambit of the hospital benefits scheme. 
and (4) The integration of third party, workers' compensation and voluntary health insurance would be very complex and would involve both the Commonwealth and the States. In practice, provisional payments of Commonwealth hospital benefits under Section 59 (3) of the National Health Act are made in the same types of circumstances as provisional payments of Commonwealth medical benefits under Section 21 (3) of the Act. 
It is not inappropriate for hospital benefits organisations to preclude payment of fund benefits, since third party and workers' compensation insurance coverage arises out of obligations imposed on motor vehicle owners and on employers, respectively, under State and Territory legislation. Entitlements under third party or workers' compensation insurance are thus more fundamental than any secondary entitlements which may arise in the voluntary health insurance context. It is also for this reason that the payments of Commonwealth benefits referred to above are provisional' they may be repayable to the Commonwealth after settlement of the compensation or damages claim. 
Australian Film 'Stockade' 
My colleague, the Minister for Health, as most honourable members will know, went last night to Queensland to attend the Commonwealth and State Health Ministers Conference. He proposes later this morning to make a statement on the issue which the honourable member has raised. It is a quite a brief statement and I have a copy of it here. Perhaps it would be the best way of answering the honourable member's question if the House would bear with me while I read this statement now. 
It reads:   it was a matter of great regret that various organisations within the medical profession were apparently unable to agree on a common attitude for medical fees. It was evident that the Federal executive of the Australian Medical Association was maintaining a responsible attitude towards the preservation of the common fee concept as instanced by the Federal President's immediate repudiation of the irresponsible proposals of the Society of General Practitioners. 
The honourable member mentioned this in his question. The statement continues: 

 Senator Anderson said that he was also concerned that the Queensland Branch Council of the Australian Medical Association had advised its members to ignore some changes to the schedule which had been made on recommendation by the Medical Benefits schedule Advisory Committee. The Council had in effect recommended its members to accept the recommendations which increased fees and to ignore those where the reduction was recommended. The Government could not agree with such a one-sided approach. 
Just wait. The Minister for Health goes on to say: 
I have been in close consultation with the Federal Executive of the Australian Medical Association for some time regarding the unsatisfactory level of observance of medical most common fees, mostly in New South Wales. The issue of medical fees has been brought to a critical point by this week's developments.  1  had hoped (hat the various differences in outlook within the medical profession would have been resolved by responsible discussions within the profession itself. This new critical element will have to be brought into the Government's consideration of the overall situation when it has before it my report of discussions that I have had. I will be reporting to the Government at an early date. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Available relevant information is limited to details of amounts owing to public hospitals by patients who are parties in claims involving third party insurance. The majority of such claims would relate to road accidents. 
Details of such amounts owing to public hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are held by my Department. 
The State hospital authorities in all States except Queensland have provided details of such amounts owing to public hospitals in their respective States, expressed as percentages of total amounts owing to those hospitals. 
There is a high rate of recovery of the amounts outstanding to public hospitals in respect of third party insurance cases but there are delays in settlement while legal issues between the parties are resolved. 
Information from these sources has been tabulated as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Oration covered a very wide range of subjects, many of which do not come within the sphere of my responsibilities as Commonwealth Minister for Health. These subjects included some which primarily involve the medical profession itself; some which primarily involve the States; and some which relate to medical education. 
All aspects of the Commonwealth's involvement in the health field are the subject of continuing review by the Government. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) (a) Hospital benefits (including Commonwealth hospital benefits) are payable in the usual manner to patients receiving treatment for psychiatric conditions in institutions approved as hospitals for the purposes of the National Health Act. 
The hospital benefits scheme does not generally apply to treatment received in public mental health institutions. Accordingly, Commonwealth and Fund hospital benefits are not usually payable in respect of patients in such institutions (but see (4) hereunder). 
(b) The Commonwealth benefit of $5 a day: 
is payable in respect of eligible pensioner patients in public wards of public hospitals, and 
is not generally payable in respect of pensioner patients in public mental health institutions (but see (4) hereunder). 
I understand that some patients in New South Wales mental health institutions meet charges based on maintenance costs and that these costs are in excess of SIO per patient/day in certain hospitals. This is essentially a matter for determination by the State authorities. 
The following 2 State-owned institutions, which cater for patients with psychiatric conditions, are approved as hospitals for the purposes of the National Health Act: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) This information is not available to me as responsibility for the supervision of food standards on such matters rests mainly with the respective State Governments. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See the reply to parts (1) and (2) of Question No. 4326. 
See the reply to part (5) of Question No. 4326. 
As indicated in the reply to Question No. 4326, insured patients receiving treatment for psychiatric conditions in institutions approved as hospitals for the purposes of the National Health Act are eligible for hospital benefits in the usual manner, but the hospital benefits scheme does not generally cover treatment in public mental health institutions. 
Mental health authorities in the States have informed my Department that the following numbers of in-patients were accommodated in public mental health institutions in the respective States as at the dates for which the latest information is available: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Eligibility for Treatment at an Out-Patient Clinic of a Public Hospital The following information relating to public hospitals in each State has been furnished by the relevant State hospital authority. mediate rate, as a percentage of the basic wage and later the minimum weekly wage in New South Wales in (a) 1946, (b) 1949, (c) 1955. (d) I960, (e) 1965, (f) 1970 and (g) at present. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Prior to I July, 1970, medical benefits organisations operated two or three medical benefits tables which provided varying benefits at varying contribution rates. Since 1 July, 1970, only one medical table has been operated by each organisation. These single tables provide more comprehensive insurance cover than was available previously. 
Consequently the rates of contribution for the tables providing the lowest benefits for the years 1955, 1960 and 1965 are not directly comparable with the tables providing the high rate of benefits available since 1 July 1970. 
However, the following table sets out the lowest rates of medical and hospital contributions charged by the major funds as a percentage of the Commonwealth adult male basic wage and, later, the Commonwealth adult male minimum weekly wage in New South Wales. The Medical and Hospital Benefits Schemes did not commence until 1953 and, therefore, the years 1946 and 1949 have been excluded. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It has been estimated that the cost to the Government of extending the present hospital and nursing home benefits arrangements to patients accommodated in psychiatric hospitals would be in the vicinity of$57m per annum. 
Substantial increases in weekly contributions by members of hospital benefits organisations would also be necessary. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The National Health Act provides that the Director-General of Health shall furnish to the Minister for Health a report on the operations of registered medical and hospital benefits organisations for each year, commencing with the year ended 30th June 1971. The report shall include details specified in Section 76a in respect of each medical benefits fund or hospital benefits fund conducted by each organisation. The Minister is required to table the report in each House of Parliament. 
The information for incorporation in the report for 1970-71 is currently being compiled and the report will be tabled as soon as practicable. 
However, the following information, which relates to both the medical and hospital funds of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, is provided: 
$29,963,965. 
$18,165,280. 
15.5 per cent; 51.0 per cent 
$2,960,296. 
(a) $3,251,437. 
$522,474. 
and (7) Details of individual investment transactions are not held in my Department at present. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) Approvals have been given under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act to expenditure of $1,670,507 by Queensland, $906,000 by Western Australia and $1,150,000 by Tasmania. This expenditure will entitle those States to grants under the Act of $717,000, $381,000 and $250,000 respectively. 
Details of expenditure approved and of payments made under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) Apart from the actual provision of health services, the social and economic aspects of health care encompass a wide range of matters such as health education, environmental health and social conditions. Research into these and many other fields is being undertaken in universities, in government departments and agencies, in voluntary health and welfare agencies, and by private individuals. 
I am not aware of the full extent of the research being undertaken in all fields encompassed by the honourable member's question and am therefore unable to provide the details requested. However, during 1971, the National Health and Medical Research Council recommended grants totalling some $92,000 for research in one relevant field, namely, social medicine. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table sets out for each State and the Commonwealth, the proportion of contributors to hospital insurance funds at the various levels of benefit coverage as at 30 June 1971. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that hospital insurance funds in all States have in recent months restructured their tables and will in future only operate benefit tables which are equated to the various levels of hospital accommodation and extra charges. 
-The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Precise figures as to the number of general practitioners in private practice in each State and Territory are not available in my Department. However, one recent estimate puts the total number for the Commonwealth at 7,376. 
(a) The numbers of medical practitioners enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service in each State and for the Commonwealth at 30th June 1960, 1965 and 1971 were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Pensioner Medical Service payments are made both to doctors in single practice and to doctors in partnership. In the case of partnerships, the payment cheque is made out in the names of all doctors in the partnership who are enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service. My Department does nut have access lo information relating to the financial arrangements made by the doctors in a particular partnership and it is therefore not possible to provide figures relating to the individual Pensioner Medical Service incomes of such doctors. 
The attached table sets out the number of doctors in single practice and the number of partnerships in each State and Territory and the Commonwealth receiving Pensioner Medical Service payments coming within the income brackets mentioned. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information available to my Department indicates that, during the period 1956-1969, there was a consistent increase in the per capita rates of usage of tobacco in ready-made cigarettes sold in Australia. This information also indicates that, although the per capita rate of usage of tobacco in ready-made cigarettes sold in Great Britain and the United Stales of America fluctuated during the same period, the rate for 1969 was lower than for 1956. lt has been estimated by my Department that, if the consumption of tobacco in hand-made cigarettes is taken into account, the increase in the per capita rate of usage of all forms of cigarette . tobacco was between 3 per cent, and 8 per cent during the period 1955-56 to 1968-69. 
The Scandinavian countries collectively experienced a consistent rise in per capita consumption of tobacco used in ready, made cigarettes between 1956 and 1966. Norway .and Sweden., continued the increase during 1967, 1968 and 1969. My department is not in possession of relable statistics for tobacco consumption in Denmark and Iceland during the period 1967 to 1969. 
There are more comprehensive controls on the advertising of cigarettes in those countries than in Australia. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government at present provides assistance at a rate of $1.50 a day for children, under 16 years of age, who are accommodated in handicapped persons homes approved as such under the National Health Act. Capital assistance grants are also made on a $2.00 for SI. 00 basis to eligible organisations under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. There are no proposals at present to amend either of these Acts to provide increased assistance. However, the honourable member may be interested to know that an interdepartmental committee has been set up to study and report on the recommendations of the Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia made by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
1 am not aware of any handicapped persons institutions receiving assistance under the legislation mentioned in (1) that are facing bankruptcy. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Computer surveys of the levels of observance ot the most common fees are undertaken by my Department in association with the principal medical benefits organisations. These surveys are based on the various services listed in the First Schedule to the National Health Act, rather than being related to the person rendering the particular services. Information in the form requested by the honourable member is therefore unavailable. 
However, the following details of the percentage levels of fees at or below the most common fees ascertained by computer surveys are supplied for the information of the honourable member: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The changes for automated biochemistry item 1276 from 1st November 1971 are estimated to save annually: 
Commonwealth benefits of at least $500,000, 
Fund benefits of at least $350,000, and 
Total benefits of at least $850,000. 
Detailed information on the number of claims paid for automated biochemistry in the past 12 months is not available. 
Item 1276 relates to automated biochemistry only. Other items in the Medical Benefits Schedule cover non-automated biochemistry. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (3) The Department of Health did calculate the provisional cost estimates of the Opposition's health proposals to which I referred on 9t*i November 1971. 
The basis of the costing of the Opposition's health proposals were provided to the honourable member on 11th November 1971. 
ESTIMATED COST OF LABOR PARTY'S MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL HEALTH INSURANCE SCHEME 1971-72 
Estimates of the cost of the health scheme proposed by the Labor Party have been made for the year 1971-72. The estimates show that the expenditure to be met by the National Health Insurance Fund under the proposed scheme would be: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The current capital cost of equipment required in a school dental clinic in the Australian Capital Territory is $4,600. Precise details of the construction costs cannot be provided, because new dental clinics are designed and built as an integral part of new Australian Capital Territory primary schools. 
(a) $1,235 for 1970-71. 
$7,450 for 1970-71. 
The annual operating cost of a comprehensive school denial service in the Australian Capital Territory in 1970-71 was $12.66 for each child examined. No provision is made in this amount for capitalrepayment. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Contributions to registered medical and hospital benefits organisations were increased during 1970 and 1971 as follows: 
Medical benefits organisations - 
With the introduction of the new Health Benefits Plan on 1st July 1970, there was a general increase in contributions with effect from that date. 
In 1971, there were further general increases in contributions. These took effect from dates that varied from State to State and from organisation, to organisation, but, generally, they took effect between 1st July and 1st October 1971. 
Hospital benefits organisations - 
In 1970, there were no increases in contribution rates. 
With the restructuring of hospital benefits tables in 1971 and with increased public hospital charges, general increases in contributions took effect as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The average annual death rate from lung cancer in Australia during the period 1961 to 1970 (inclusive) was 43.4 deaths per 100,000 of the population. 
The Government's present policy in this area is mainly directed towards the education of young persons in the health dangers of smoking, rather than towards the prohibition of cigarette advertising on television. I therefore do not propose to confer with the Postmaster-General on the introduction of such a prohibition. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A shortage of beds in State supported nursing homes for aged persons of limited means was brought to the attention of the Government in 1968. This followed conferences between State and Commonwealth officials, relating to .the care of the aged. Early in 1969, each State Premier was advised of a Commonwealth offer to participate financially with the States in a scheme to provide a comprehensive and co-ordinated programme of home care particularly, but not exclusively, for the aged. It was proposed that this programme be coupled with capital subsidies for the provision of increased numbers of State nursing home beds  for  the sick aged of limited means. Under the States 
Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969, $5m was subsequently made available to the States on a matching basis for the 5 years period which will end on 30th June 1974 and this amount was expected to provide approximately 1,000 additional State nursing home beds. 
Yes. 
The amount of $465,000 available to South 
Australia under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act is that State's share based on a population formula. 
A total of $3.7m remains available to the States under the Act, after deduction of grants to cover projects approved to date. The overall position in relation to proposed expenditure by the States under the Act is the subject of continuing review by the Government. However, it should be borne in mind that Commonwealth financial assistance directed to aged persons who require nursing home care is not limited to capital assistance. During 1971-72, an estimated $65.8m will be provided by the Commonwealth for nursing home benefits and a very substantial proportion of this sum will be paid in respect of aged nursing home patients. Furthermore, it has been announced that the present arrangements for assistance to nursing home patients are under review by the Government. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Social Services has advised that by virtue of the normal eligibility conditions, a total of approximately 1,100 age, invalid and widows pensioners ceased to have entitlements under the Pensioner Medical Service due to recent increases in Commonwealth superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefit payments. More detailed information in relation to age, invalid and widow pensioners, respectively, is not available. 
and (3) There is no prohibition against such pensioners rejoining friendly societies. However, only society members who have maintained con tinuous membership dating from before 24th April 1964 are eligible to receive rebates on the patient contribution towards the cost of pharmaceutical benefits. 
In 1964, the Government decided that, because the patient contribution concept was being weakened, persons who joined friendly society dispensaries on and after 24 April 1964 would not be eligible for rebates on the patient contribution. This remains the policy of the Government. 
Committee of Inquiry into Nursing  (Question No. 4824) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I have no formal knowledge of the reasons which prompted the Queensland Branch of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation to institute this enquiry. 
I understand that members of this Commitfees are held in high respect by their various professions. However, I am unable to make a meaningful comparison between them and their colleagues who have served on. similar committees in other States. 
I understand that 439 replies were received from a total of 701 questionnaires distributed to student nurses. 
and (6) The Committee recommended that a central planning authority should be formed to investigate these matters. 
The National Health and Medical Research 
Council in October 1970 set up a sub-committee of its Nursing Committee to consider the present and future roles of the nurse in relation to the needs of the Australian community. The reports of all other expert committees have been made available to this sub-committee, and the report of the Queensland committee will also be made available for their consideration. Recommendations arising out of National Health and Medical Research Council committees are discussed by the full Council in Session, which includes representatives from all State Health Authorities and from my Department. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A Commonwealth benefit was first paid to the States in respect of each bed occupied in a public hospital during the financial year 1945-46. 
The rate of benefit at that time was 60c per bed day. The rate was increased to 80c per day as from 1 July 1948. 
The nature of financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth under the National Health Scheme was fundamentally changed from 1 January, 1952. An additional benefit was introduced for contributors to registered hospital benefits organisations. A benefit was also introduced for pensioners who were not contributors to registered organisations. The Commonwealth benefit for insured patients is now $2 per day; for uninsured patients it is 80c per day; and for pensioner patients who are treated free of charge in public wards of public hospitals it is $5 per day. 
Special Commonwealth assistance, which in 1970-71 totalled$19.6m, is also payable in respect of patients who are Special Account contributors to registered hospital benefits organisations. 
When payment of a Commonwealth benefit to the States in respect of each occupied bed in a public hospital was introduced during 1945-46, it was a condition of payment of that benefit that no charge be made for public ward treatment in public hospitals. 
Current public/standard ward charges in public hospitals are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian passports held by Messrs O'Donnell, Knox and Hawkins are due to expire on 23rd June 1972, 6th December 1972 and 13th August 1973 respectively. 
These are ordinary passports. 
Arts: Commonwealth Assistance (Question No. 461S) 
I can only repeat what the Prime Minister said earlier, namely, that the Minister for Health will be making a statement on this matter - I hope tonight - and that any questions that honourable members might have in relation to it should follow the making of that statement. 
I shall be glad to refer the honourable gentleman's question to the Minister for Health for a reply. 

 Mr JAMES KIBEL 
The first part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman was whether I was aware that the Drug Evaluation Committee had reversed the attitude of the Director-General of Health. The answer is that I am not aware of it. My understanding of the situation is that, mainly because it was not convenient to him or because  Dr McBride  did not have the information available, it was not possible for the Drug Evaluation Committee to meet until yesterday to decide its attitude towards  Dr McBride's  findings on this drug. Because a number of days were to elapse, as a holding operation the DirectorGeneral of Health sent telegrams to doctors throughout Australia asking them to refrain from prescribing the drug to women of child-bearing age pending consideration by the Drug Evaluation Committee. So there seems to be no reversal whatsoever involved. I think it would be appropriate if I referred the other parts of the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague and asked him to give the honourable gentleman a full answer. 
I do not know about representing the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson), Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 gather I have 2 minutes to comment on some of the things that have been said by honourable members. In that time 1 want to do only one thing. Opposition speakers on the question of health and fees would have been much more credible if the Opposition had indicated what it proposed to do about the question of doctors fees. It has been widely accepted that the Australian Labor Party health scheme has solved in some way the problem which has vexed the Government - I have no hesitation in admitting it - of the level of observance of doctors fees. The Labor Party has not done anything of the sort. Only last Monday, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote an article in the 'Daily Telegraph' which purported to set out the Opposition's health scheme. The only thing that that article had to say about fees was, firstly, that the Labor Party would maintain the fee for service system. Honourable gentlemen may contrast what the Leader of the Opposition wrote with what the honourable members for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  have had to say. Their entire speeches were a spate of vindictive hostility against the whole fee for service system. The only other thing the Leader of the Opposition had to say was that the Opposition would negotiate a schedule of fees with the medical profession. Yet, the Opposition purports to criticise the Government and to represent that it has a health scheme which has somehow solved this problem. In fact, the Opposition would not have the fee for service system. It would operate a salaried service as was set out by the honourable member for Kingston and it is trying to disguise (his fact. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At the time the voluntary health insurance scheme was introduced, the weekly contribution rates (family) for public and intermediate ward hospital insurance operated by the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales were as follows: - 
Public - 5 cents 
Intermediate - 10 cents* 
The dates on which subsequent alterations to the family contribution rates were made, and the new weekly contribution rates following each such alteration were as follows: - 
 1 would like to make it quite clear, in answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, that there has been no oversight or contravention of regulations. In fact this incident indicates, if anything, the watchfulness of our quarantine service. As I understand it, these animals - I think there were 137 altogether - destined for Australia contracted the disease strangles on a voyage from the United Kingdom. As I understand it. strangles is an upper respiratory tract infection which is common in all countries, including Australia. It was felt necessary to take special quarantine precautions because of the possibility - it is only a possibility - that the symptoms of strangles could mask the symptoms of other virus diseases such as equine influenza. As a result the horses have been placed in various quarantine stations, some in Fremantle, some in Melbourne, some in Sydney and still others in a special quarantine station on a property at Penrith, until tests have been made to determine whether other virus infections are present. I repeat that this incident indicates the extreme care and watchfulness of our quarantine service. 
The Government does pay the salaries of teachers who teach English to migrant children. These teachers are, of course, under the control of the Education Departments of the States. In relation to the particular matter that he has raised, there have been discussions between officers of my Department and officers of the Victorian Department of Education. These discussions are proceeding but I am led to believe that, as a result of these discussions, most of the problems that have existed have been sorted out and I am confident that if there are any problems remaining they also will be very speedily sorted out. 
I have read Press reports in relation to this matter. I will be glad to convey the honourable member's question to my colleague for a detailed reply. But I would make the general point that the Government's method of financing medical research in Australia today is primarily through the National Health and Medical Research Council. The amounts made available by the Government have increased considerably from year to year. In fact, in every Budget we substantially increase the amount that we make available through that source for medical research. Generally speaking,' the attitude - of the Council has been that when a particular area of research, for one reason or another, is able to attract funds from other sources - as the Heart Foundation has been very successful in doing, and I give the Foundation great credit for this - Government money should be directed to other areas of research which have not been able to attract money from the public and other sources to the same extent. This seems to be a very sensible procedure. In relation fo the detailed particulars in the honourable gentleman's question, I will ask the Minister for Health to give him a reply. 
I have not seen the statement by  Mr Jago.  I am aware, however, that as a matter of policy benefits are not paid in relation to persons admitted to institutions which cater wholly or primarily for the mentally ill. I should explain here that at the time the health insurance scheme came into being there was a very good reason for this policy. The good reason for it was that no State government made charges in its mental institutions, so that there was no point in covering them for insurance. I will need to check this with my colleague, but I think I am still right in saying that only in New South Wales and South Australia are fees charged even today. 
The Commonwealth Government regards the care of the mentally ill as basically, historically and fundamentally a responsibility of the State governments. The Commonwealth Government makes its contribution through the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act. It believes it completely right and proper that the State governments should carry on their historical role in this matter, as indeed 4 of the Australian States still do by not charging mental patients. However, the Commonwealth Government has no desire to discriminate against mental patients, and where the State governments, which are responsible for health institutions, do not discriminate - that is, where they treat mental patients in genera] hospitals - we do not discriminate in relation to health insurance. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) As at 30th June 1971 the number of members of hospital and medical benefits organisations who were covered by the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in relation to part (a) of the honourable member's question: 
The most relevant figure available is the percentage of total days stay where the principal condition treated was one of the specified causes. The following table sets out this information for persons discharged from public and private hospitals in Queensland for 1969, Departmental and Board hospitals in Western Australia for 1970, public hospitals in Tasmania for 1970, and from public beds in most public hospitals in Victoria for 1968. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia is an association consisting of registered health insurance organisations throughout Australia. It was formed by unanimous resolution of a meeting held in Melbourne on 21st April 1971, which was attended by representatives of open health insurance organisations operating in Australia. 
Membership of the Association is limited to health insurance organisations registered under the National Health Act 1953-1971. Restricted membership organisations, i.e. organisations whose membership is restricted to members of a particular profession, trade, industry, association or union and the Defence forces, are not eligible for membership of the Association. 
The following registered organisations are members of the Association: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not possible to supply in detail the information requested by the honourable member. Most people enrolled in the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan probably have done so as a result of extensive publicity campaigns conducted by my Department and health insurance organisations, and through - contact with social workers and other welfare organisations. 
This information is not available. 
The principal avenue through which eligible persons have been advised of the assistance available under the Plan has been the Departmental publicity campaigns. However, it . has been recognised that action supporting these publicity programmes is desirable in assisting eligible persons to participate in the Plan. In this context, my Department is presently examining ways of making greater use of social workers, charitable organisations, and other appropriate welfare groups in motivating and assisting eligible persons to enrol  in  the Plan. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available in the manner requested. Statistics in relation to the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan are compiled in respect of the following groups: 
low income families; 
unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries; and 
migrants. 
Furthermore, the statistics that are available are compiled on a quarterly basis and it is not possible to provide the information as at the dates requested. The details provided, therefore, are as at the end of the quarters which are closest to the dates requested by the honourable member. 
In regard to the figures provided in this answer there must be certain qualifications made about them which will be relevant to any conclusions that may be drawn. 
These qualifications are: 
The figures for eligible persons as determined by the Department of Social Services are taken at the last Saturday of each quarter and may not coincide with the enrolment figures as supplied for the end of each quarter by health insurance organisations. 
Some health insurance organisations do not maintain detailed membership records and the membership figures which have been supplied are, to some degree, on an estimated basis, for example, some organisations do not take into account changes arising from lapses in individual membership until some time after an individual membership lapse has occurred. 
In the case of unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries, the National Health Act provides them with an additional 28 days free entitlement to medical and hospital benefits after their Social Services entitlement expires. An allowance must be made for this factor when comparing the enrolment figures of organisations with the eligibility figures for Social Services Benefits. An adjustment for this factor has been made in the figures supplied in this answer. 
I  (4) In the case of migrants lt is necessary to take into consideration that the total figures for migrant settlers do not represent the number of persons entitled to be enrolled in the Subsidised Health Benefits Flan because in the case of families, enrolment by the head of the family provides Subsidised Health Benefits entitlements for the whole of the family. The numbers of single persons and of family groups of particular sizes are available for assisted migrants but in the case of unassisted migrants the figures used in this answer represent an estimate recently made by the Department of Immigration. 
A further matter to be borne in mind is that in the case of unemployment, sickness and' special beneficiaries a proportion would already be enrolled as ordinary insured persons with organisations and they may not consider it worthwhile taking the advantage of subsidised benefits because of the possible short period involved. 
With the foregoing in mind the following information is provided: 
The first part of the question sought infor-  marion as at 2nd November 1971. Details as at 30th September 1971 have therefore been provided as the date closest to that requested by the honourable member, as follows: 
The Minister for Health has informed that his reply to part (2) of this question, published in Hansard on 7th 
March 1972 (P. 668), contained an incorrect figure. The answer to part (2) of the question should read: 
The average annual death rate from lung cancer in Australia during the period 1961 to 1970 (inclusive) was 21.9 deaths per 100,000 of the population.' 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Medical and hospital benefits are payable for treatment of the mentally ill and handicapped on the same bases as for treatment of the physically ill and handicapped. However, in respect of patients in State mental health institutions, hospital benefits are not payable but Commonwealth medical benefits may be payable where the patient is treated by a private medical practitioner. 
Benefits are not generally payable to patients in State mental health institutions because the provision of mental health services is regarded as the responsibility of the States primarily. However, special Commonwealth grants totalling approximately $50m have been provided to the States since 1955 for the construction, extension and equipping of mental health institutions. 
The extent and forms of direct and indirect Commonwealth financial assistance to the mentally ill and handicapped are under continuing review by the Government. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Among those invited to the opening of the Unit were Pastor C. Motra,  Mrs J.  Clague and  Mr J.  Roberts. 
Accommodation and treatment in the unit is available for both Aboriginal and non- Aboriginal children. It will also be used for nutritional training purposes for Aboriginal mothers. 
No.  Mr J.  Roberts (mentioned in (1) above) is a member of the staff of the Unit. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Arrangements are at present proceeding towards the publication of another series of advertisements on Subsidised Health Benefits in Australia's foreign-language press, and towards the translation of information pamphlets in foreign languages. It is expected that the advertisements will begin appearing in April, in some 35 foreignlanguage newspapers, and that the pamphlets will be ready for distribution' by the middle ofthe year. 
The advertising in foreign-language newspapers involves the preparation of copy, the translation of the copy, and the scheduling and placement of the advertisements. The estimated cost of this is approximately $6000. 
The preparation of pamphlets in foreign languages involves the translation of the English language leaflet, the printing of pamphlets in several languages, and their distribution. The cost of this is expected to be approximately$2000. 
Preliminary preparations for advertising in the foreign-language press began in December. Detailed arrangements for the translation of pamphlets are to be commenced this month. 
-The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) One such application was received on 24th February 1972, and is currently under consideration. No other applications have been received. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following payments were made to contributors to medical benefits organisations during 1970-71: 
Fund benefits- $83,887,543 
Commonwealth benefits - $92,360,582 
(a) In 1970-71, the approximate number of contributors to medical benefits organisations was 3,854,000. 
(b) The records maintained by medical benefits organisations do not indicate the number of contributors who received payments during any particular period. These records are mainly designed to provide details of services, costs, and benefits during a period, per mean contributor. 
The number of claims which qualified for fund and Commonwealth benefits is not available. However, the number of services covered in each of these categories in 1970-71 was as follows: 
38,974,625 services in respect of fund benefit coverage; and 
38,254,818 services in respect of Commonwealth benefit coverage. 
The average amounts of benefit paid in respect of the above services were: 
services for which fund benefit was payable $2.15 
services for which Commonwealth benefit was payable - $2.41 
The number of instances in which fund benefit was refused during 1970-71 represented 0.16 per cent of the total number of claims. The most common ground for non-payment of funds benefit was that the medical expense was incurred during an obligatory waiting period. This accounted for 0.03 per cent of the total number of claims. The waiting periods are 2 months, except in accident cases where there is no waiting period, and 9 months in obstetric cases. 
The number of registered medical benefits organisations increased from 77 at 30th June 1970 to 81 at 30th June 1971. 
Based on preliminary figures from the latest population census, the percentages of the Australian population, in each Stats and in the Commonwealth, covered for medical benefits, either as contributors to registered medical benefits organisations or dependants of contributors, are as follows: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House  of  Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be tun as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As the honourable gentleman is or should be aware, an inquiry is going on in New South Wales at the present moment. This is an inquiry related to item 1 and item 4 of the medical benefits scheme in New South Wales. But in announcing the setting up of the inquiry and its terms of reference my colleague said that the Government will be looking at the whole situation as a result of anything that might come out of the inquiry. So I do not think there is anything that I can usefully say to the honourable gentleman until the Government sees the report of the inquiry and has considered it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt is not possible to isolate the number of assisted migrants fu statistics of settler departures currently prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
A major investigation into the departure of former settlers was undertaken by the Social Patterns Committee, of the Immigration Advisory Council during 1966/67. The final report was published in October 1967 (Parliamentary Paper No. 194 of  967).  The situation was reviewed in 1969 and the Council recommended that enquiries into the departure rate be postponed for two or three years, daring which time more evidence was likely to become available. In September, 1971, I asked (he Immigration Advisory Council to undertake a further enquiry which is currently in progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The newspaper report to which the honourable member has referred was concerned with the experiences of Turkish migrants and in particular with the health of Turkish children who had come to Australia in the very early stages of the operation of the scheme. 
Since then steps have been taken to ensure that all migrants travelling to Australia under the migration arrangements we have with the Turkish Government are medically screened by Australian doctors and that particular attention is paid to the health of children. 
Experience with early arrivals from Turkey showed that a lack of fluency in the English language and a knowledge of what to expect in Australia presented the main difficulties for newcomers. To overcome these deficiencies an English language training supervisor has been appointed to Turkey. Preference in movement has been given to those who have an urban background. In addition, a pre-embarkation orientation course for assisted migrants has been commenced. These migrants also acknowledge that they understand the implications of migration and these are carefully explained to them by additional counselling staff who have been appointed. 
Migration selection procedures, in all countries, are constantly under review to make certain that accurate assessments are made of the potential migrant's general suitability. The process of improving migrant selection is therefore a continuing one. Greater emphasis is now paced on the training of interviewing and selection officers, not only to enable them to better assess applicants for migration from an occupational point of view but also to judge the ability of applicants to cope with adjustments to a changed environment. 
The findings of a comprehensive survey of selection methods undertaken at a number of our overseas posts are currently the subject of close examination. New approaches to migrant counselling, presentation of information and actual selection procedures, including review of individual selection officers reports, have already been adopted. Where these investigations indicate that further changes should be made, new procedures will be implemented to ensure that the methods and standards employed by the Department of Immigration for the selection of immigrants are up to date, adequate and appropriate to Australia's needs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the review of the long-term continuation class programme in September 1971, the number of evening classes in New South Wales was reduced from 439 at 1st September to 307 at 30th January 1972. The closing of classes was not the result of any reduction in expenditure by the Commonwealth on migrant education. On the contrary expenditure has increased substantially. Prior to the Government's announcement of new initiatives in migrant education in April 1970, expenditure had been to the order of $1 million annually. In the financial year 1970-71 expenditure rose to $3.8 million and in the current financial year it is expected to exceed $6 million. 
The continuation class programme provides a long-term form of instruction generally in evening classes each of two hours duration held twice weekly. It had been in operation virtually unchanged for some 20 years. The high abandonment rate and other research information showed that the programme was failing to meet the needs of all migrants. The purpose of the review was to reduce the number of single classes operating uneconomically and to regroup other classes preferably in multi-class centres where it would be possible to provide graded levels of instruction. The need for the review was referred to in the Government's announcement of new initiatives in migrant education in April 1970 which foreshadowed also a transfer in emphasis to more accelerated and specialised forms of instruction which would be better suited to the needs of individual groups of migrants. 
The evening continuation class programme will be retained as the principal source of instruction for those migrants whose needs are best met by the long-term form of instruction. Although the overall number of classes has been reduced, tha rearranged grouping of classes should ensure that the greater majority of migrants will still be w,thin easy access of a class. 
There has been already a substantial development of more specialised and accelerated forms of instruction. Full time intensive courses, each of 8 weeks duration, are now operating at 9 centres throughout Australia, catering for sr.me 1,600 students annually. (There are 3 centres in New South Wales currently catering for 600 students annually. Their capacity will shortly increase to 900.) Accelerated courses, which cnncentrate the 15-18 months continuation programme into a course of 16-20 weeks duration in morning, afternoon and evening classes, are catering annually for over 4,000 students throughout Australia (2,500 in New South Wales), and these are expected to increase still further. The interest being displayed by employers and employees in the current polit courses for migrants in industry indicates that there will bc an increasing demand for this special course. 
Special classes are being provided where necessary to meet the needs of migrant women and other special groups of migrants. The experimental television education project being conducted in conjunction with WIN Channel 4, Wollongong, is expected to provide the basis in due course for an Australia-wide programme. 
and (4) The information sought on the number of classes and students enrolled as at the end of January in each year is as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In  a  statement to the House of Representatives on 4 March  1970,  the then Minister for Health indicated that a number of recommendations of the Nimmo Committee had been adopted by the Government. 
The Government has since decided not to proceed with those recommendations relating to the establishment of a National Health Insurance Commission (Recommendations 1 and 2) and the deduction of health insurance contributions from employees' wages (Recommendation  27). 
In addition to those recommendations which it was advised were acceptable to the Government, the Minister stated that a further eleven recommendations were under consideration. These were recommendations  3,  4, 5, 6,  8,  9, 11,  12, 17, 25  and  31 
Recommendation 9 has been adopted and implemented, while recommendation 12 has been implemented in all States except Queensland where, because of special circumstances, a modified rule has been introduced. 
The remaining recommendations relating to hospital fees and hospital benefits have been subject of discussions between Commonwealth and State Government Ministers and officers but agreements contemplated in recommendation  3  in relation to hospital fees and benefits have not been made. 
Recommendations 25 and  37  are still under consideration by the Government. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to' the honourable member's question: 
$8.1m. 
(i) Low Income Families - When the subsidy arrangements were introduced on 1 January 1970 there was one category of low income family, namely families with incomes of $39 per week or less. In this category it was estimated that 100,000 families, comprising 300,000 persons, would be eligible for a full subsidy. Graduated assistance was introduced on 1 July 1970 when it was estimated that a further 84,000 families, comprising 271,000 persons, would become eligible for partial subsidies. 
Unemployment, Sickness or Special Beneficiaries - It was estimated that there were approximately 30,000 such beneficiaries at any one time. No figure for the total number of beneficiaries was calculated. 
Newly Arrived Migrants - 30,000. 
and (4) The groups listed in (2) above are not mutually exclusive. A significant proportion of persons receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits would have annual incomes less than the ceiling which determines eligibility for low income families. Similarly, during any reference year, the great majority of newly arrived migrant, families would be resident in Australia for a,. period less than 12 months and their annual incomes may be below, the eligibility limits for low income families. 
The original estimates made in 1969 and 1970 indicated 184.000 families would become eligible for subsidised health insurance contributions. This estimate was based on 1966/67 information, the latest year for which data was available. Projections based on figures for the 1968/69 income year, which are now available, indicate that currently the maximum number of eligible low income families would be approximately 125,000. Experience has shown that, in 1970/71, 82,000 unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries, about 11,000 low income families, and 28,000 newly arrived migrants became members of health insurance funds under the subsidy arrangements. 
In view of previous experience, figures for the 1968/69 financial year would not provide an appropriate basis for accurate cost estimates for the subsidy arrangements for the financial years 1970/71 and 1971/72. 
Income groupings for low income families at 1 July 1971 were as follows: 
Full Subsidy - Weekly family incomes not exceeding $46.50. 
Two-thirds Subsidy - Weekly family incomes  exceeding $46.50 but not exceeding $49.50. 
One-third Subsidy - Weekly family incomes exceeding $49.50 but not exceeding $52.50. 
It should be noted that the eligibility limits given in (5) above have applied as from 1 March 1971. The increase in seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings in the June Quarter, 1971, was 1.1 per cent The application of this increase to the income groupings in (5) above would produce the following eligibility limits: 
Full Subsidy - Weekly family income not exceeding $47.03. 
Two-thirds Subsidy - Weekly family income exceeding $47.03 but not exceeding $50.03. 
One-third Subsidy- Weekly family income exceeding $50.03, but not exceeding $53.03. 
Applying an increase of 9 per cent to the income groupings in (6) above, the limits of eligibility would be: 
Full Subsidy - Weekly family income not exceeding $51.26. 
Two-thirds Subsidy- Weekly family income  exceeding $51.26 but not exceeding $54.26. 
One-third Subsidy - Weekly family income exceeding $54.26 but not exceeding $57.26. 
As indicated in (3) and (4) above, it is impracticable to produce accurate cost estimates based on figures for the 1968/69 income year, the latest year for which information is available. 
The Minsiter for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, except where the account is endorsed by the doctor to the effect that he will accept a benefit cheque in full payment or where the claimant is eligible for Subsidised Health Benefits. 
Yes. 
Where a contributor claims hardship, the organisation will make payment. 
No. 
Yes. Five other organisations have similar rules. Enquiries have revealed that a further ten organisations whose rules do not so provide, nevertheless follow similar practices. 
Broadcasting: Station at Streaky Bay  (Question No. 5075) 
MrWallis asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio station at Streaky Bay, South Australia,, will commence broadcasting. 
Will the broadcasts from this station be confined to relaying from one A.B.C. channel only or will it be able to relay from alternate A.B.C. channels. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Not at this point of time, the matter ls under consideration by the Animal Production Committee. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Crown-of -thorns Starfish (Question No. 5129) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Tables shoving the total number and cost of medical services in each State in the quarter ended 31st March and 30th June 1971 are set out below. 
These statistics correspond with those published in Table 30 on page 141 of the Director-General's Annual Report for 1970-71. 
It should be noted that the statistics appearing on page 2927 of Hansard for 6 May 1971 for the December quarters of 1969 and 1970 relate to the period in which the registered medical benefits organisations prepared their claims on the Commonwealth for reimbursement of benefits. This approach was followed to enable early extraction of the information. Departmental statistics such as those published in the annual report ordinarily relate to the periods in which the claims from the registered organisations are processed by the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Each Government may nominate 4 representtatives to participate in each meeting of the Joint Commission. At the first working meeting held in Rome from 4th to 8th February 1972, Australia's representatives included the Ambassador and Counsellor (Immigration) while Italy's representatives were senior officials from its Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Labour and Social Service. 
Meetings of the Joint Commission are not public. Recommendations and reports which issue from it are required, in accordance with Article 37 of the Migration and Settlement Agreement between Australia and Italy, to be made to the 2 Governments. This has been done in respect of the February meeting and these are now being considered by the Australian Government. 
The subjects discussed at the meeting were: 
Information about Australia furnished to  candidates for emigration; 
Assistance given upon arrival to facilitate the  settling in of migrants; 
The availability of adequate accommodation; and 
English language instruction. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Office policy of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the Public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices which is detrimental to the Public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office, until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Kevin  Cairns,  Sir Winton  Turnbull,  Mr Keith  Johnson,  Mr Hansen  and  Mr Duthie. 
Petitions severally received. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
My Department has no statistical information which relates to this point specifically. However, pre-1964 developments concerning the supply of drugs and medicines under the United Kingdom National. Health Service clearly demonstrated a relationship between the patient contributionand prescription volume. This relationship has been confirmed by post- 1964 developments in the United Kingdom. 
and (4) I have no information relating to the ages of members of friendly societies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Procedures differ slightly from country to country but in general all intending unassisted migrants other than British Europeans, and all intending assisted migrants are required to complete an application form and a medical examination form. 
The application form contains a formal question requiring the disclosure of information about mental health. The form completed by applicants under the United Kingdom Assisted Passage Scheme contains the following question: 
Have you or any member of your family ever had a chest clinic investigation, suffered from epilepsy, cancer, tuberculosis or nervous disorders such as anxiety or depressive state of a disability? 
The application form for entry for residence completed by other applicants contains the following question: 
Details of any mental illness, other serious illness, or physical disability (for any member of the family or dependants). 
The first part of the medical examination form for British assisted migrants (which is completed by the applicant) contains the following questions: 
Have you ever had: 
A severe illness or any operation. 
Tuberculosis. 
Chest clinic investigation. 
Convulsions, fits or epilepsy. 
Mental disease or treatment in an institution of any kind. 
Nervous anxiety or a depressive condition. 
Has any member of your family or any relative (state relationship) ever had: 
Mental disease or epilepsy. 
Other serious illness. 
Have you required any medical attention during the past two years? 
The medical examination form completed by applicants other than prospective U.K. assisted migrants includes the following questions: 
Have you, or has any member of your family ever suffered from a nervous or mental disorder, fits or epilepsy, or been treated in an institution for any kind of these disorders? 
What medical attention have you required during the last twelve months? 
During the course of selection interview selection officers are alert to detect indicators of actual or past mental health problems (which can be referred for further investigation by the medical examining officer). Such indicators might arise, for example, from observation of the applicants themselves or from examination of their employment history. No judgment would be made by the selection officer but any suspicions would be referred to the medical examining officer. 
The medical examination form completed by the medical examiner in the course of the medical examination of the applicant contains specific questions relating to 'nervous system' and (for British assisted migrant applicants) 'mental state' or (for other applicants) 'mental conditions and intelligence' and medical officers are alert to detect mental health problems. 
In addition both kinds of medical examination form contain a specific certification by the medical examining officer as follows: 
For British assisted migrants - 
I CERTIFY that I have this day examined the above-named, that the results are as set forth, and in my opinion: 
* subject to any special observations, the above-named is in good health and of sound constitution and not suffering from any mental or physical defect which would cause inability to earn a living in Australia; 
* the above-named suffers a mental or physical defect as quoted and/or is NOT in good health. (Signature and qualifications) Date 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To give as up-to-date a picture of Australian conditions as possible the Department's fact pamphlets for migrants are re-printed regularly and revised to cover changing circumstances. 
The text of the pamphlet 'Employment in Australia' was revised in September 1971 and accurately interpreted the employment situation then prevailing in Australia. Unfortunately through faulty proof reading and checking several changes in the revised text were not included. 
In line with normal practice the Department of Immigration issued instructions to withhold the booklet until it was replaced with a new edition. Meanwhile migrants coming for interview continued to be correctly and fully counselled on their employment opportunities in Autralia. 
Of the 143,500 copies printed at an estimated cost of $5,750 Australian all but 17,000 were withheld from distribution. 
I will convey the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in another place and ask him to give the honourable gentleman a full reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following schedule shows in which countries doctors posted from Australia have been engaged in screening the health of prospective migrants since 1965 and the average duration of a doctor's service in each country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All officers, including medical officers, who are posted overseas are eligible to undertake tuition in the language of the country of posting. Where practicable this may commence before departure but in all instances it is available after arrival in the country of posting. 
The language training scheme provides for payment of tuition fees and reimbursement for cost of text books and other aids, time off for study and payment of a proficiency allowance. 
The amount of training for which the Department may reimburse officers for the cost of tuition is 80 hours. Officers and wives are given an initial approval for a period of 40 hours. At the end of that period progress is reviewed and an additional 40 hours may also be approved. 
Details of the provisions are set out in the Public Service Board publication Determinations Relating to Overseas Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
8th September 1971. 
During 1973. 
Yes. 
I think it would be fair to say that primary producers, rather than expressing undue concern about the precautions, take a healthy and continuous interest in them because they realise how vitally important they are. In relation to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, there is no doubt that the introduction of foot and mouth disease into this country could have a serious effect because of the susceptibility of the Australian animal population to it. The economic consequences, of course, would be enormous not only in terms of the direct result in the loss of animals who catch the disease but also in terms of the cost involved in the slaughter out operation which would take place in an endeavour to eradicate the disease. An indirect cost also is involved because there is no doubt that countries such as the United States of America and Canada, which desire to keep themselves free from foot and mouth disease, would immediately ban all imports of Australian meat. So there is no doubt that this is a vital and important matter. 
In relation to whether the precautions are adequate, I should make the point - this is not always understood - that one has to appreciate the degree of risks in this matter. The first and by far the most important risk of the transmission of foot and mouth disease is from live animals themselves. Of course we avoid that happening in Australia by imposing a complete ban on the import into Australia of all animals that can transmit foot and mouth disease from all countries except New Zealand. The second most important risk of transmission comes from raw animal products, and we avoid that risk by banning the import into Australia of raw meat and allied products from all countries in which foot and mouth disease exists. Much lower down on the scale of risk is the risk of the disease being transmitted via the clothing and footwear of people coming into the country. All travellers coming to Australia are asked whether they have been on a farm or at an abattoir. If they have - and I think this point is important - and if on the observation of customs officers their footwear or clothing is contaminated then their articles are decontaminated. But they have to give the impression of being contaminated before this action is taken. 1 might add that Canada and the United States of America, which are just as concerned as we are about this matter, do not take these precautions. Finally, if ever any evidence is required of the adequacy of our precautions in this country I can only point to the fact that we have avoided the importation of this dreadful disease into Australia for such a long while. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  might abhor violence himself, but as my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Mir N. H. Bowen), said earlier there would not be a single person in this country who has done more than the honourable member for Lalor has by the causes he has advocated and by the actions he has taken to encourage those latent tendencies that exist in a large number of individuals in this community towards violence. He might abhor it - they are his words - but what he does encourages it and brings it to the surface. I want to say only one thing about his remarks. He threw round, as he nor.maly does- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since its Inception in April 1970, the Child Migrant Education Programme has included provision for short training courses in the method of teaching English as a second language for special teachers for whose salaries my Department is responsible. Twenty-two in-service training courses, mainly of one month's duration, have been conducted in all capital cities and in Wollongong and Newcastle, and have been attended by 644 teachers, of whom 523 have been teachers in State schools. In Victoria, 211 special English teachers in primary, secondary and technical state schools have attended courses. Three more courses are planned for 1971-72, one of which will be held in Melbourne and two in Adelaide. 
Yes. The University of Sydney conducts a twelve-month diploma course of the teaching of English as a second (or foreign) language for qualified teachers which is attended mainly by overseas students. At Monash and La Trobe Universities and the Canberra College of Advanced Education, the Diploma of Education courses include TESL as a method option in the final year. At Burwood Teachers' College in Victoria a onesemester TESL course is available as an option to third-year diploma students taking an English major. Claremont Teachers' College in Western Australia offers optional final-year units in TEFL for two and three-year trainees. The introduction of an optional unit of TEFL is under consideration by the Goulburn Teachers' College, New South Wales. I am pleased to note the increasing interest being shown by training institutions in developing these courses. 
, (4) and (5) I am informed that there is a shortage of staff in Victorian secondary schools, particularly in certain subjects, e.g. mathematics and English, though this has been alleviated to some extend in recent months. 
The Commonwealth requires that special teachers whose salaries are reimbursed by my Department under the child migrant education programme should be employed exclusively in the teaching of English to migrant children and be additional to the normal staff of schools. Generally teachers who have undertaken a special training course arranged under this programme continue to be engaged solely In teaching migrant children in special classes, though some wastage must be expected particularly among those who are temporarily employed or engaged on a part-time basis only. I am aware of only one instance in one State where such a teacher was appointed to teach other subjects, and I have been informed that the teacher concerned has now been transferred to the teaching of migrant children in special classes. 
I would not think It reasonable to expect that secondary teachers, who in the course of their training take a TESL method option should then automatically be used on teaching English to migrant children. However, among the special teachers currently employed in Victoria under the Commonwealth programme, there are in fact three teachers who have taken the TESL option of La Trobe University as part of their Diploma of Education. 
I am informed that the situation in other States ls similar to that in Victoria in that, while shortages for certain subjects persist, the overall supply of teachers has improved as a result of various measures undertaken to stimulate the recruitment of teachers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 23rd August 1971, the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications has met formally as a full Committee on 22nd September 1971, 20th October 1971, 25th November 1971, 17th December 1971, 10th February 1972 and 9th March 1972. All of these meetings took place in Canberra. 
The Committee has published no further booklets to date. However, manuscripts of 5 additional booklets are currently with the printers. The professions covered are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed information covering the policies of the countries listed in regard to entry for settlement into their respective countries is not held. 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Question No. 5644) 
If I may take the first part of the honourable gentleman's question first, let me say that the pensioner medical service is a joint operation. Parts of it are provided by State governments; parts of it are provided by the Commonwealth Government. Before the Commonwealth came into the field, all services under the pensioner medical service were provided by State governments. They were provided through public hospitals, even general practitioner type services. To the very great advantage of pensioners, the Commonwealth Government came into the field and arranged things in such a way that the general practitioner part of the pensioner medical service was provided so that pensioners could have the advantage of being able to go to their own general practitioner in a surgery in their own area. That position has remained unchanged since that time. As has always been the case, very good specialist services have been provided by public hospitals under State auspices with some assistance by the Commonwealth with respect to pensioner hospital bed days. I believe that the State governments and the Federal Government provide pensioners with an admirable medical service. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question in relation to a change in policy this, of course, is a matter of policy and is, therefore, a matter for my colleague in another place. I will refer it to him and ask him to give the honourable gentleman a response. 
In general terms the Department of Health has been very successful over the years in negotiating with drug manufacturers the prices of drugs supplied under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. These prices compare more than favourably with prices paid overseas and this is much to the benefit of the Australian taxpayers and patients compared with those overseas. I see that the honourable gentleman acknowledges this. I have no knowledge, of course, of this particular case but I would be glad to convey the information which the honourable member has supplied to my colleague in another place and ask him to investigate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Citizenship Act provides for acquisition of citizenship by migrants in the following ways: 
British migrants 
Notification - See Section 11a of the Act. The effect of this is that a British subject who was lawfully admitted to Australia as a migrant and has lived here for over 5 years, without becoming liable to deportation by misconduct, has the right to lodge with the Department a simple notice of desire to become a citizen; and he then becomes an Australian citizen without further action on his part. 
Registration - See Section 12. The effect of this is that after living in Australia for one year a British migrant may apply for a certificate of Australian citizenship; and if he satisfies the Minister that he can meet the requirements of Section 12, as to character, knowledge of English, etc, the Minister may grant a certificate of citizenship to him. 
Other migrants 
Naturalisation - See Section15 of the Citizenship Act. The effect of this is that generally a non-British migrant may, after 5 years residence, apply for a certificate of citizenship which the Minister may grant if the applicant meets the requirements of Section15 as to character, knowledge of English etc. The period of 5 years residence may be reduced to 3 if applicants are able to read and write English proficiently. The Minister may further reduce these residence requirements for persons who have lived in other Commonwealth countries, or who have served in the Forces. The Minister may waive the residence requirements for minors, the spouses of Australians, and former Australian citizens. 
As a matter of Government policy, the residence requirement is5 years for non-European people (British subjects or others) admitted to Australia on the basis of their qualifications under the Government's decision announced in this House on 9th March 1966. On this matter I refer the honourable member to his question to me and my answer on 29th April 1971 (Hansard page 2218). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have no knowledge of any reports in the particular terms mentioned in the honourable member's question. However, the honourable member may be assured that my Department keeps a close watch on current developments in the field of human genetics research, with particular reference to the medical implications of the subject and the role of genetic counselling. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has also circulated to medical practitioners a booklet on human genetics. This booklet is intended to alert the family doctor to the problem in the community of diseases which have a genetic basis. It includes a list of Genetic Advisory Centres in all Australian States. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The figures presented by the Government in its negotiations with the Australian Medical Association early last year showed a comparison of the total cost of matched medical services* covered by claims processed by medical benefit funds during the quarters ended 31st December 1969 and 31st December 1970. 
These total figures include the cost of radiology and pathology services and certain other medical procedures provided by public hospitals. This therefore cannot be construed as a precise measurement of the increase in the income of doctors over the 2 periods. (*A 'matched medical service' is one for which both Commonwealth benefits and fund benefits were paid) 
Statistics on the basis referred to above were extracted for a short period only and figures on the same basis for the other periods are not available. 
However, figures on a comparable basis have been extracted from claims processed by the Department of Health during the other periods mentioned by the honourable member. I would point out that there is a lag between the time a fund processes a claim and the time the details are available for processing by the Department. Consequently the fund figures and the Departmental figures for any particular quarter will not be identical. 
The Departmental figures for the periods in question are: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Hospital benefits organisations in all States have recently reconstructed their benefit tables and, in future, will operate only benefit tables which are directly related to the various levels of hospital charges for such items as drugs and dressings. However, the following table sets out the numbers of persons covered for the various levels of hospital benefits as at 30th June 1971, for each State and the Commonwealth: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following statistical tables: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
In his statement to the House of Representatives on 4th March 1970 the then Minister for Health stated that the Government had decided not to adopt the proposals by the Nimmo Committee relating to the regionalisation of activities by 'open' organisations. 
As the former Minister also indicated in his statement, in rejecting this recommendation of the Nimmo Committee the Government considered that the objective of the recommendation, i.e. to eliminate those practices of health insurance organisations which were considered as unnecessarily increasing some funds' operating expenses, should be pursued by other measures. To this end, sections 67 and 68 of the National Health Act were amended in 1970 to provide that each registered open' organisation must have separate approval for each State in which it operates enrolment, collection or payment facilities. Approval for an open' fund to operate in a particular State is not given unless it is shown that economic and efficient operations in that State can be expected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
89 doctors engaged in screening overseas the health of prospective migrants applied for and undertook language training during the years 1965-71 which represents 6J.5 per cent of the total number of doctors engaged for this purpose during the period. 
Courses in the following languages hare been undertaken: German, Greek, French, Spanish, Swedish, Italian, Arabic, Serbo-Croat and Turkish. 
The length of each course intitially approved has been 40 hours. At the end of this period progress is reviewed and an additional 40 hours may be approved. A small number (4.3 per cent) have applied to extend their courses to the maximum of 80 hours. Information relating to the second part of this question is not available. 
Tuition in all languages spoken by prospective immigrants in their native lands is available and may be taught in language courses. 
Courses have been undertaken at the University of Vienna, Berlitz Schools in Vienna, Rome, The Hague and Cologne, the Language Institute in Beirut, the Institute of Education in The Hague, Alliance Francaise in Paris, the Institute of Foreign Languages in Belgrade, and the United States Foreign Service Institute in Ankara, and under private tutors. 
(a) and (b) This expenditure is recorded under incidental and other expenditure which covers a large number and wide variety of items. The records are not dissected in a manner which would show the individual expenditure of each class of officer undertaking language training. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The reply to question No. 4293 stated that, according to information provided by authorities in the States and Territories which arrange the distribution of free milk to school children. approximately 157,000 eligible children did not participate in the scheme during 1970-71. It also stated that it was not known how many, of these children were unable to do so because of distance and supply difficulties. The figure of 157,000 children covered both metropolitan and country schools and, according to the information provided, includes those children who, although free milk is available to them, do not drink milk at school. 
As previously stated, where bottled pasteurised milk is not available, provision has been made in the Commonwealth agreement with the States for alternative forms of milk to be supplied to school children. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The approximate sums that would have equalled the totals of (1) 3 months contribution income in the case of large funds and (2) 6 months contribution income in the case of smaller funds, at 30th June 1971, for each State, are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated savings were based on an assessment of information available to my Department including advice from several major users of automatic biochemistry equipment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The basis of recording of expenditure by my Department does not enable the cost of administration of the Pensioner Medical Service to be isolated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). The basis of recording of expenditure by my Department does not enable the costs it incurs in the administration of the hospital and medical benefits schemes to be isolated. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As explained in paragraph A10 of the answer to question No. 4715, "The cost of medical services for persons covered by compulsory insurance has not been included in these cost estimates as it has been assumed that this cost would be met by an amount to be collected from compulsory insurers.' 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and(3) In accordance with my Department's programme for detection of tuberculosis in the Northern Territory, 25,864 persons (including full-blood Aboriginals) in various Northern Territory centres were X-rayed during 1970. 
Sixteen active or possibly active cases of tuberculosis in adults were detected. No cases were detected in minors. 
The next series of X-rays of the Northern Territory population will commence this month (April 1972). 
I am not aware whether my colleague has given consideration to this matter. I will ask the Minister whether he has given consideration to it and to provide the honourable member with  a  reply. 
Yes, I can. Of course sponsored immigration is no new thing. It has been a very important part of our programme, almost since the beginning of the post-war immigration programme. It has brought to Australia some very good settlers who have made a considerable contribution to our economic and social life. We propose to continue sponsored immigration as long as there is an immigration programme, particularly as it affects family reunion. 
I have in mind particularly our friends from southern Europe. The only reason why it has been necessary to raise the point that sponsorship patterns differ widely from country to country is that the Australian Labor Party has announced that it will base its approach to immigration virtually on sponsorship by friends, relatives and employers in Australia alone, in other words, virtually confining it to sponsorship. In that situation it seems very relevant to point out that statistics from my Department show that sponsorship patterns are very strong in relation to most southern European countries, most Middle East countries and most non-European countries, and that it is very weak or practically non-existent in relation to most northern European countries, most North American countries and the United Kingdom. What that means, in so many words, is that if the Labor Party did what it says it will do we would get virtually no migrants from northern Europe or from North America, and that the number of migrants we would get from the United Kingdom would be cut by 60 per cent. The Government does not believe that this would be in our national interest. In a situation in which the apologists for the Labor Party tend to say that whatever the Labor Party says it will do things will remain the same, I think it important to say in relation to immigration that if the Labor Party does what it says it will do there will be a significant and radical change in the composition of our immigration programme. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Precise figures as to the number of general practitioners in private practice in each State and Territory are not available in my Department. However, one recent estimate puts the total number for the Commonwealth at 7,376. 
Provision for the registration of specialists, as such, does not exist in all States and Territories. However, provision has been made in the National Health Act for the recognition of specialists and consultant physicians. Such recognition relates to the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits at higher rates for certain medical services rendered by specialists or consultant physicians following referral of the patient. The numbers of medical practitioners so recognised in the categoriesof specialist and consultant physician, as at 31st December 1971, are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The infant mortality rate is calculated annually; the final figures for 1971 are not yet available but will be forwarded to the honourable member when they are known. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
(a) 11 
120 
4 
83 
It should be noted that the foregoing figures refer to establishment. Vacancies are filled as soon as possible after they occur, but the staffing situation can fluctuate noticeably over fairly short periods. 
The employed medical staff/inpatients ratio at the Alice Springs Hospital is generally in the vicinity of 1:20. lt should be noted that any such ratio can be subject to short-term variation, and does not take account of other relevant factors such as the treatment of out-patients. The other two hospitals mentioned by the honourable member are metropolitan teaching hospitals with functions and responsibilities widely different from those of the Alice Springs hospital. 
Yes. 
No, however, a position has recently been recommended for approval. 
Certain bacteriology work is efficiently undertaken foi the hospital by the Animal Industry and Agriculture Branch of the Northern Territory Administration. 
Ho. I understand that the person to whom this question apparently refers was registered in New South Wales as an infants' nurse. The question of recognition of appropriate qualifications did not arise as she had no hospital nursing qualifications. 
The following provisions regarding the registration  of  nurses in the Northern Territory are contained In Part III of the Northern Territory Nurses Registration Ordinance 1928-1967: 
A person shall be qualified to be registered as a general nurse who proves to the satisfaction of the Nurses Registration Board - 
that she has passed such examinations with respect to general nursing .. . as are prescribed and has passed through such course of training with respect to general nursing as is prescribed; 
that she is a holder of a certificate of training as a general nurse awarded by an institution or body approved by the Board, and has passed such examinations (if any) with respect to general nursing as the Board has directed her to pass and has passed through such course of training (if any) with respect to general nursing as the Board has directed her to pass through; or 
that she has - 
m some other part of Her Majesty's dominions or in some other country, passed examinations with respect to general nursing and passed through a course of training with respect to general nursing; and 
GO  in the Territory or elsewhere, passed such further examinations (if any) with respect to general nursing as the Board has directed her to pass and passed through such further course of training (if any) with respect to general nursing as the Board has directed her to pass through.' 
Qualifications for registration as a midwife, as a child welfare nurse or as a mental nurse are similar to those referred to above, but with the appropriate term used in place of 'general nursing'. 
In addition to the qualifications referred to above, applicants for registration must be of good character, be over 20 years of age, and be of sound health. 
No. 
The Department of Health establishment for public health work in the Alice Springs area is an Assistant Director (who is a Class 3 Medical Officer), 5 medical officers. 3 health inspectors and 26 nursing sisters. 
Yes. A re-establishment proposal is at present under consideration. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As indicated in paragraph A3 of the reply to Question No. 4715, the estimated cost of payments to medical staff presently classified as honorary was made on a sessional fee basis, i.e.. on the basis that doctors would he remunerated by the hospitals. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
(a) September  1971. 
The Interdepartmental Committee and a number of working parlies set up by the Committee have met on several occasions and are continuing to meet on a regular basis. 
No. 
. It is not known when the Committee will complete its considerations. 
I am not in a position to anticipate when any Government decision on this matter may be made. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
More than one hundred written requests have been made to the Head Office of the Department of Health; there is no record of the number of similar requests to State Departments of Agriculture or of verbal requests to the Department of Health. 
With the exception of requests in relation to cattle and pigs from New Zealand, none. 
The Somes Island Quarantine Station received its first consignment of cattle from Francein March 1972. 
No. 
Preliminary studies are almost complete but it is not yet possible to indicate when the facility could be operative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of settlers arriving in Australia of the age group 5-14 years in each of the last 5 years  who  were born in (a) English-speaking countries  (i.e.  Commonwealth countries and America) and (b) other countries were as follows: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
I will refer the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in another place and ask him to give the honourable gentleman a reply. 
All requests by deserting seamen to be permitted to remain in Australia for residence are considered carefully on their merits. This happened in the case of the Russian seaman about whom the hon ourable member spoke. If the honourable gentleman gives me the details and the names of any other seamen of which he is aware 1 would be perfectly happy to consider such cases on their merits as well. 
In relation to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, at the time of the debate on the estimates for the Department of Immigration last year 1 circulated to honourable members the complete details, if not for the last 3 years then certainly for the previous 12 months, of the number of deportations and the countries from which deportees came. If the honourable gentleman did not see that list 1 would be glad to make a copy of it available to him. In relation to the last part of his question, I have nothing to add to the reply that I gave to the honourable member for Corio. 
I am aware of the pitiable plight of Woofa and I commend the interest taken by the honourable member in that pitiable plight. However, departmental advice in relation to this matter is that poor Woofa must spend the statutory 60 days in quarantine in order to ascertain whether any disease contracted in transit actually becomes manifest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Some social service benefits are payable without any residential qualification whatever. Conditions which apply are as follows: 
Maternity allowance. This is paid to all mothers in respect of children born in Australia. No residential qualification applies. The allowance may also be paid in respect of children born on the journey to Australia providing that permanent residence is intended and no allowance is payable by another country. 
Child endowment This is paid to families who enter for permanent residence from the beginning of the first 4-weekly period after arrival in Australia. No residential qualifications are imposed. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits. These are payable without residential qualifications to males between 16 and 65 and females between 16 and 60 who have arrived in Australia for residence and whose employment has been interrupted by unemployment or sickness. 
Invalid pensions. Applicants whose incapacity occurred after arrival are required to have lived in Australia continuously for 5 years at any time. Those who were permanently incapacitated or blind on arrival are required to have 10 years continuous residence before they qualify for a pension. This period is reduced where a person has lived in Australia for periods totalling more than 10 years including a period of continuous residence of not less than 5 years. 
Widows pensions. No period of residence is required where a claimant and her husband were living permanently in Australia when she was widowed. In other cases 5 years continuous residence is required but this is waived in the case of a woman whose husband has died overseas if she herself had resided continuously here for 10 years at any time. 
Age pensions. A period of 10 years continuous residence in Australia at any time is necessary to qualify for an age pension. This period is reduced where a person has lived in Australia for periods totalling more than 10 years and a period of continuous residence of not less than 5 years. 
Special benefit may be granted to a migrant in respect of whom there is a maintenance guarantee in force if the guarantor is unable, because of a change in his financial circumstances, to honour his undertaking. In any such case the amount of benefit so paid automatically becomes a debt due and payable to the Commonwealth by the guarantor. 
Some cases have come to notice where a guarantor appears able but refuses to honour his guarantee. 
In such instances the action taken depends on the circumstances of the case concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Immigration has taken place since 7th May 1971. This was held in Canberra on 25th February 1972. 
The following State Ministers attended: 
New South Wales- The  Hon.  E. A. Willis, M.L.A., Chief Secretary, Minister for Tourism and Minister for Sport, 
Victoria - The  Hon.  Vance Dickie, M.L.C., Minister for Immigration, 
Queensland - The  Hon.  F. A. Campbell, M.L.A., Minister for Industrial Development and Migration, 
South Australia - The  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan, Q.C., M.H.A., Premier, Treasurer, Minister of Mines and Minister of Development, 
Western Australia- The  Hon.  H. D. Evans, M.L.A., Minister for Lands, Agriculture and Immigration, 
Tasmania- The  Hon.  D. F. Clark, M.H.A., Minister for Housing (representing the Minister for Immigration, The  Hon.  K. O. Lyons. M.H.A.) 
The following requests or suggestions were made for action by: 
The Commonwealth - 
To ask the Committee of the Immigration Advisory Council now undertaking an Inquiry into the Departure Movement of Migrants to differentiate between assisted and unassisted migrantsin determining the size of this movement 
To continue to tailor the size and content of the immigration programme to Australia's needs and the nation's ability to absorb migrants. 
To increase, with the co-operation of the States, the minimum amounts of capital required by successful applicants for assisted passages from Britain. 
The Territories- 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table, based where applicable on information provided by State authorities, shows the average cost of an attendance at an outpatient's department of a public hospital and the average patient contribution to the cost in each State and Territory for 1970-71. However I should point out to the honourable member that these are of limited value as there are differences between States in the manner of defining outpatients and defining and recording out-patient attendances. There are also differences in the methods of allocation of costs. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Australian-made contraceptives are already subject to the provisions of the Therapeutic Goods Act. 
No standards have yet been determined for such goods, but action to do so will be taken in due course. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Leprosy survey work is carried out continuously in the Northern Territory. It is conducted by staff from the East Arm hospital, the Rural Health section, and the Aerial Medical section, all of whom are trained in the early diagnosis of leprosy. (2)New cases detected during 1970 and 1971 are as follows: 
-The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The report is to be presented to the National Health and Medical Research Council at its 74th Session on 11-12 May 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. An application for the admission of Gioni Placintar was lodged by the child's father with my Department on 7th May 1971. 
It is understood that some time elapsed between the date on which the child was approved for entry and the date on which he was given an exit permit and passport by the Romanian authorities. 
This is not necessary. The child arrived in Australia on 8th May 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Whilst some mixed descent families may arrive in Western Australia with limited funds, available evidence indicates that they quickly acquire employment and accommodation, and those who have taken passage loans make regular repayments. 
and (4) I do not wish to comment on the implications of these questions. Arrivals in Australia as a whole of persons of mixed descent since 1966 are as follows: 
After  Mr Rover  left Australia, information became available to me that his role in the Croatian nationalist movement was such that it was not in Australia's international interests to have his travel facilitated by the Australian Government, that is, by bis possession of an Australian passport. In the circumstances, I exercised the powers available to me under section 8 of the Passports Act to have  Mr Rover's  passport cancelled and  Mr Rover  issued with a document of identity which would enable him to travel back to Australia. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) No employees of the hospital currently receive rental subsidies. (3), (4) and (5) Subsidies are determined by the Canberra Hospital Management Board under conditions similar to those applicable to Commonwealth public servants under regulation 97 of the Public Service Regulations. No married couples, or employees within any particular employment category, are excluded on that basis. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the inquiry into the fees to be adopted for general practitioner medical services in New South Wales (Items 1 and 4) for the purposes of the National Health Act. 
I have just presented the report. 
 The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  mentioned to me. as he said, that he was to raise this matter tonight. He informed me that it had something to do with migrants from Peru, which is really all I knew about it. I have listened with interest and attention to what he has had to say. I did not know enough about the matter that he wished to raise to inform myself fully of the detail of it, but I think I should take this opportunity to refute the implication in his remarks that there has been any intention on the part of the Government or my Department to recruit what he calls marriage fodder by misleading people :n Peru or anywhere else in the world about conditions in Australia and what they would find here. In fact the whole system in the Department is organised to see that precisely the opposite happens. I have personally read very carefully all the information pamphlets that are distributed overseas. Generally speaking they are the same in most countries except for the language in which they are printed. None of the information provided to intending migrants from Peru, in a written form anyway, could possibly have provided a misleading picture of life in Australia. It is factual, (t is kept up to date. Many of the large range of pamphlets on many aspects of life in Australia are revised as much as three or four times a year to see that they are up to date. This is basically the information that is given to intending migrants &gt;n Peru or anywhere else. 
But let us face it; we all know from our own experiences that many people overseas, particularly if they are confronting problems in their own country - the honourable gentleman admitted that in respect of Peru this was one of the motivations which gave an impetus to migration - this plays the dominating part in their decision to migrate. Quite often they have a stereotype picture of the country to which they go which is inaccurate. It may have been formed from word of mouth information, by letters from friends or relatives, by a television programme or by anything. It may have been created in their formative years long before they actually made the decision to come. In this situation, with many people, whatever you do in relation to counselling and whatever you do in relation to providing factual information will not make the slightest difference. 
Inevitably when people who are in that situation arrive in the new country and find that it does not fit in with the stereotype picture that they had of it they are inclined - perhaps understandably, as this is human nature - to suggest that they have been misled. I am perfectly willing to have officers of my Department meet this group that the honourable gentleman is talking of, to discuss the matter with them and to investigate individual cases. I have investigated many allegations that the information given by, or the activities of, officers overseas have misled migrants, and I have found that, after investigation, very few of them are well grounded. But let us go into this question. Let us see whether there is a particular problem in relation to Peru which requires us to look at our procedures. I am perfectly willing to do that, but I want to make the point that generally I have found these sorts of allegations to be unsubstantiated. 
In relation to people who have had a tertiary education and people who are professionally qualified, the standard procedure in the Department is to ask the individual before he makes the decision to come to Australia to fill out one of the professional employment forms that are supplied by the Department of Labour and National Service, so that this form can be sent back to Australia and so that the Department of Labour and National Service can give him an up to date, individual assessment of his employment prospects in relation to his qualifications. Every person in that category who comes into an Australian office overseas is advised to do this. Many of them do it, but many of them do not. They are advised, particularly if they have professional qualifications in relation to which there might be difficulty at the present moment, to test their individual qualifications against the current demand in Australia. 
I am advised in relation to the language situation that it is highly unlikely that anybody in any of these countries would have been informed that they would be able to gain access to one of these intensive language courses immediately on arrival in Australia, because there is a great demand for the available courses. The advice they would receive would be that they would probably have to wait after arrival for at least a couple of months before they could gain access to them. I am also advised that there are many South American migrants currently attending these courses. Many of them have attended other courses. Many single girls have gained access to the courses. Many of them have gained access to the other types of language courses that are available. Again, I have an open mind on this question. If it appears that more should be done, we will do it. 
The same thing applies in relation to accommodation. As the honourable gentleman probably knows we have long standing arrangements with various organisations such as the Young Women's Christian Association, the Salvation Army and the Travellers' Aid Society, to cater for the initial accommodation of single girls coming to Australia, to counsel them, look after them and ease their early settlement problems. They also help them to find more permanent accommodation when they leave the initial accommodation. I might add that my Department has for many years subsidised these organisations in providing this accommodation. 
Pursuant to section 76a of the National Health Act 1953-1971, I present the first annual report by the DirectorGeneral of Health on the operations of the registered medical benefits organisations and the registered hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no objection to the entry of children legally adopted overseas where the adoption would be deemed valid in the intended State of residence. The only immigration requirement in such circumstances is sound health. 
Proxy adoptions in Vietnam are not valid under adoption legislation of the States of Victoria. 
Children who have not been legally adopted overseas in compliance with the legislation of the States, may be approved for entry for adoption in Australia provided the adoption plans have the full support of the adoption authorities in the State of intended residence. 
No statistics are available of the number of applications lodged by Australian residents for the entry of children adopted by them overseas where the adoption is deemed valid in the State of intended residence in Australia. 
and (3) All applications lodged for the admission of children whose adoption in Vietnam is deemed valid under State legislation have been approved. No cases in this category are known to be outstanding. 
All applications have been approved where the plans for children's adoption in Australia have had the support of the State adoption authorities. The number of Vietnamese children approved for entry on this basis is 6. 
No statistics are maintained of applications refused where the adoption plan does not have the support of the State adoption authorities. 
One application is at present under consideration involving a Vietnamese child whose entry for adoption has been sought. 
The approach of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to this question all through has been shallow, crude and ill thought out. This was well demonstrated by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  in his second-reading speech. 
The honourable member for Lalor can make his speech later. The Minister, in his second-reading speech, pointed out some of the crudities of the Leader of the Opposition's own Bill which repeated the shallowness of the Labor Party's approach to this problem, and the Leader of the Opposition has not chosen to answer those charges. He has not chosen to answer today the charge that he brought into this House a Bill purporting to be in the interests of migrants, which sought to confine the granting or the portability of pensions to Australian citizens, thereby excluding a large number of very good migrants to this country who have made a substantial contribution to it. The Leader of the Opposition has not answered the charge made by the Minister for Social Services that he brought into the House a Bill that would have precluded this country, through the mechanism of reciprocal agreements, from doing what it could in relation to Australian born residents of this country who wanted to go and live in other countries, and in relation to new migrants to this country, to get through our negotiating position the best possible deal on the rights that those migrants accrued in their countries of origin.. 
The Leader of the Opposition has not answered that charge. In fact, in the very amendment he has moved he has stood firm on the same position. Of course, the fact is that the whole approach of honourable members opposite to this matter has been a result of their general attitude to migration. They suddenly woke up to the fact that they have offended, and deeply offended, a large proportion of our migrant population, and that many of our migrant population, because they have chosen to become Australian citizens, have votes. That is the reason for this exercise, which has been a rather crude, shallow attempt to retrieve the position and reach out for the migrant vote. However, in this process, as I have said and as the Minister for Social Services has said, the Opposition has advocated policies which even the migrants themselves will see are against their own best long term interests. 
If I may say so, it is characteristic of the Leader of the Opposition that the facts do not appear to matter if he thinks he can achieve his objective; the damage he can do to our migration programme does not appear to matter if he thinks he can achieve his objective; the damage that he does to Australia, to our own country, does not appear to matter if he thinks he can achieve his immediate objective. Every argument the Leader of the Opposition used in this debate today, and when introducing his own Bill, and every statement he has made at naturalisation ceremonies - misusing ceremonies of naturalisation around the country - has been a distortion or a bending of the truth, as I will now proceed to demonstrate. 
The Leader of the Opposition has claimed that negotiations for social service agreements with migrant source countries have dragged on for many years. In fact, our migration agreements with those countries did not and do not constitute a commitment to enter also into social service agreements with those countries, as the honourable gentleman well knows. We undertook, firstly, to study the possibility of reciprocal social service agreements and, secondly, to make efforts towards reaching agreements. Logically, a study of the possibility of reciprocal social service agreements must precede efforts towards reaching agreements. As the Minister for Social Services has already stated in this House, following consideration by Cabinet an inter-departmental committee was established as long ago as December 1969. 
It is indicative both of the complexity of the issues involved - something that the Leader of the Opposition has not even begun to understand - and also of the importance attached to them that the departments concerned, including my own Department, appointed very senior officers to work on this committee. The report of the committee went to Cabinet in December 1971. So much for the grandstanding of the Leader of the Opposition when he said that, somehow or other, he fixed this up on his trip overseas last Christmas. Although I cannot be quite certain of this, I would say that almost certainly the Minister's first submission to Cabinet reached the Cabinet office before the honourable gentleman ever left for overseas. As I said, it was followed by a submission to Cabinet in December and in January this year the decision was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
Two months have elapsed since the study of the possibility of reciprocal social service agreements was completed and the findings endorsed by Cabinet. In that short time we have indicated generally to our migrant source countries that Australia would be happy to consider reciprocal agreements on portable pensions and we have specifically approached 13 governments of migrant source countries. All the Leader of the Opposition can talk about is that, in the process, we have not approached or been approached by representatives of the governments of what he called the captive nation countries. He cannot have had much contact with the representatives of the captive nations who have come to this country if he believes that any migrants from those countries will return to them, with or without a pension, while those countries remain under their present regimes. 
The Leader of the Opposition has placed great emphasis on the words: 
. the fall in the number of migrants from countries from which we received a significant number of migrants since the last World War.. 
The Leader of the Opposition used that expression in his introductory speech to his own Bill earlier this session and he repeated it in his speech this afternoon. He claimed on both occasions that 'Australia is failing to attract migrants'. They were the exact words used by the Leader of the Opposition. He said - I repeat the phrase - that 'Australia is failing to attract migrants'. Yet the immigration policies of the Australian Labor Party advocate and require that the Commonwealth Government should withdraw from the search for migrants. The Leader of the Opposition has also said that, under a Labor government, fewer migrants would come to Australia. So far as our traditional source countries are concerned, this certainly is true. As 1 have pointed out on a number of occasions recently, the new policies of the Australian Labor Party in relation to our traditional sources would cut assisted migration from Britain by more than 60 per cent and virtually eliminate migration from such countries as Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, France, Switzerland, the United States of America and the countries of Latin America. In addition, the immigration policies of the Australian Labor Party would mean significantly fewer migrants coming to Australia from such countries as Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia and Malta. Indeed, it is because migrants from those countries realise this - and the Leader of the Opposition has woken up to the fact that they realise it - that he has begun to become concerned about the migrant vote in the coming election. This is the reason why he has rushed in with these ill-thought proposals in relation to pensions - because the migrants know that this will be the effect of the approach of the Australian Labor Party to migration. 
Yet, in the face of the proposals of the Australian Labor Party in relation to migration, the honourable gentleman has the hide to say that he is now concerned that Australia is failing to attract migrants. How well founded is that concern? To justify the assertion that Australia is failing to attract migrants, the Leader of the Opposition quoted statistics by which he sought to compare the number of migrants from various countries last year with what he described as the peak year. Logically, one would expect migration in any other year to be less than migration in the peak year. Quite apart from this exercise in logic, the figures quoted by the Leader of the Opposition are very seriously misleading, as are nearly all the figures quoted by him in every field. The peak year statistics which he has quoted relate in every instance to permanent and long term arrivals, whereas the figures he has quoted for 1970-71 relate to settler arrivals. Settler statistics are available for the period from January 1959 onwards. They show a quite different picture to that presented by the Leader of the Opposition. For example, in his speech on the second reading of his Bill, the Social Services Bill (No. 2) earlier this session he claimed that: 
The number of migrants from Lebanon has fallen from 5,669-- 
He loves to be precise -  in the peak year to 4,005 last year. 
The figure of 5,669 relates to the number of long-term and permanent arrivals from 
Lebanon in 1969-70. 
That is very good, coming from the honourable member who interjected. However, the number of settler arrivals from Lebanon in 1969-70 was 4,083, only 78 more than the 4,005 settlers from that country in 1970-71. 
Similarly, the Leader of the Opposition said that the number of migrants from Germany had fallen from 63,982 to 4,872. In fact, the figure of 63,982 relates to the number of long-term and permanent arrivals, including displaced persons, who came to Australia in 1949-50. He referred also to a fall in migration from Cyprus. la fact, the 1,054 settler arrivals from that country in 1970-71, are the largest number recorded since settler statistics have been kept. He also said - without quoting from any statistics - that there was also a drop in the number of migrants from Yugoslavia. In this, the Leader of the Opposition was mathematically precise; there was a drop. In 1969-70- the peak year - 14,097 settlers arrived in Australia from Yugoslavia. In 1970-71, 14,096 settlers arrived in Australia from Yugoslavia- one fewer than in the previous record year. 
The year 1970-71 was not, however, the period of unrelieved gloom which the statistics quoted by the Leader of the Opposition might suggest. Settler arrivals in 1970-71 from such countries as the United States of America, Canada and other countries In the Americas, Switzerland, Portugal and the Union of South Africa were the highest ever recorded. However, this did not suit his argument. He could not misquote those figures so he did not mention them at all. The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the number of former settlers leaving Australia. He returned to that again this afternoon and quoted statistics to show that these numbers had increased. But the fact is that the number of overseas-born persons living in Australia has increased also. In December last an estimated 2.6 million people living in Australia had been born overseas. Measured against this very large settler element in our population and the fact that in the 3 years ended 30th June 1971 Australia received more than half a million migrants, the figures quoted by the Leader of the Opposition retreat into their true perspective. He stated also that 311,952 migrants were eligible for naturalisation but had not been naturalised. This is essentially a reiteration of a previous statement by him which I described at the time as a clear misrepresentation of the facts. In publicly correcting the statement on that occasion I said: 
That truth is that at 30th June 1971, the latest time for which statistics are available, there were 228,700 people eligible to seek naturalisation who had not applied for it. 
I pointed out also that the experience of the Department of Immigration gauged over 25 years of immigration was that migrants generally waited more than 8 years before deciding to apply for citizenship. The 
Leader of the Opposition ignores this. He also ignores the fact that the proportion of eligible migrants who seek naturalisation in Australia compares more than favourably with the experiences pf other migrants - receiving countries. Furthermore, there is no evidence to support his speculations as to the reasons why a percentage of migrants hesitate to seek citizenship. To apply for citizenship is one of the most significant steps taken by a migrant in his new country. It is also a step which every migrant should undertake voluntarily of his or her own free will, without any suggestion of coercion. 
The Leader of the Opposition has stated also that there is hesitation in recognising migrants' professional or trade qualifications. He has given this as one of the reasons why they go home or do not come here in the first place. As to trade qualifications, a tripartite mission in 1968-69 visited 17 migrant-source countries and, following its report, new criteria have been introduced which are working very well. The position in regard to professional qualifications is far more complex. The role of the Commonwealth in this sphere has been limited, in the words of my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  a previous Minister for Immigration, to vigorous advocacy. Nevertheless, the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications established by the Commonwealth Government has, with the co-operation of the various professional associations and registration boards, been making a solid attack on the problems involved. 
Finally I want to put in its proper context the suggestion that in providing for a 20-year residential period for portable pensions the Government is denying this facility to the great majority of migrants. The Leader of the Opposition quoted figures intended to establish that the great majority of Italian, Greek, Dutch, Yugoslav and German migrants had been in Australia for less than 20 years. From this he concluded that the 20-year residential requirement for portable pensions would stop them from returning to their homelands with an Australian age pension. There is, I must admit, an even more fundamental reason why they cannot do this. The fact is that the great majority of migrants to whom the Leader of the Opposition refers are some 30 to 35 years too young to receive an Australian age pension, either here or in their homelands. By the time they are old enough to qualify for an age pension they also will have met the residential requirements for portability. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Estimates of the number and cost of specialist medical consultations in each State are set out below. There is an average time lag of just under 3 months between the date of service and the date on which the contributor lodges his claim for medical benefits with his organisation. Thus, a substantial proportion of services in the September and December quarters of 1970 were for services given under the previous Medical Benefits Scheme. The statistics shown are therefore confined to the March, June and September quarters of 1971, and show services which relate predominantly to those listed in the Medical Benefits Schedule which came into effect on 1st July 1970. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The administration costs of the Commonwealth Health Insurance Commission would, of course, depend on the extent to which doctors claimed directly on the Fund and did not bill the patient, and in the event of doctors not claiming directly from the Fund, the frequency with which patients submitted claims for benefits. 
In deriving $21 m as the administration costs of the Commission, it is believed that very few doctors would be willing to bill the Fund direct and accept 85 per cent of the sheduled fee as full payment for the service rendered. Also, in the absence of a deterrent against small claims for medical benefits, it has been estimated that expenses incurred by the proposed Commission in processing medical benefits claims would be little less than the management expenses of existing registered medical benefit organisations. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. However the articles of Association of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd provide for the appointment of contributors' representatives to its governing body (the Council). The Council comprises 24 persons 12 of whom ere contributors' representatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of immigrants repatriated and the cost to the Commonwealth each year during the period 1960 to 29th February 1972 were as follows: 
To the nearest hundred dollars. 
Note: Repatriation expenditure for the years 1960-61 to 1963-64 (inclusive) was recorded collectively with that for deportations in Departmental accounts and consequently the above figures for those years are estimations. 
Grounds for repatriation may be broadly categorised as medical (including psychiatric), socio-economic and humanitarian. 
The number, percentage and cost in each category of repatriation were as follows: - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the period 1st January 1971 to 31st December 1971 visitor applicants totalled 141 of whom 133 were approved. In the same period there were 214 applicants for residence of whom 101 were approved. 
Of the 133 approved for visits 15 travelled on Rhodesian passports and of the 101 persons approved for residence 14 travelled on Rhodesian passports. 
-I  will draw the honourable member's question to the attention of my colleague, but 1 would remind the honourable gentleman that the control and provision of ambulance services have always been responsibilities of the State governments. I would have thought that, if concessions were to be made to pensioners in this field, it would clearly be the responsibility of State governments. Indeed, I know that in some States the State governments do provide those concessions. However, as 1 say, 1 will bring the matter to the attention of my colleague. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons of non-European descent admitted to Australia for residence or permitted to remain for residence following entry for temporary residence, and the number of persons of part-European descent admitted for residence during the past 5 years is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On the basis of the month of dispensing, figures are not recorded separately for prescription benefits provided as general benefits and as pensioner pharmaceutical benefits. 
The following table contains information which closely relates to that requested. Figures are given by month of payment as distinct from month of dispensing. Because the majority of prescriptions in the month in which a claim is paid are dispensed in the previous month, the months used, December to March, should largely reflect the dispensing months November to February. Payments for the month of December were however, exceptional because, due to a greater than usual carryover of outstanding claims, approximately 45 per cent of the prescriptions paid were dispensed in October. 
Prescription figures relating to claims paid in March are included, in order to provide 3 clear months not significantly affected by the inclusion of prescriptions dispensed prior to the increase of the patient contribution for general benefits from 50 cents to $1. 
Number of benefit prescriptions included in claims paid in the months of December to March inclusive. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
Total management expenses of the registered medical benefits organisations in 1970-71 amounted to $14,433,831. 
The organisations' estimates of management expenses for 1971-72 total approximately $16.5m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total management expenses of the registered hospital benefits organizations in 1970-71 amounted to $12,805,570. 
The organizations' estimates of management expenses for 1971-72 total approximately $15.3m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4). It is incorrect to refer to the submission of the Department of Health to National Health Service pharmacists', since no such submission has been made. 
Following the consideration of submissions made by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and discussions the Minister has had with Guild representatives, the Government recently increased by 7 cents the fees paid to chemists for dispensing pharmaceutical benefits to 39 cents for readyprepared items and 64 cents for extemporaneous preparations. The new fees are effective for benefit prescriptions dispensed on and after 1st January 1972. 
During the Minister's recent talks with Guild representatives the conduct of a new inquiry into National Health dispensing costs was discussed. The Minister has suggested to the Guild that the new inquiry provide the information required under both - 
the regression analysis method which had recently been proposed by the Guild; and 
the method favoured by the Government, sometimes referred to as the cost-accounting method, which includes random activity sampling and is basically similar to the method used in the United Kingdom. 
In this way both approaches could be evaluated and compared. 
Other arrangements agreed to in the discussions included the periodic updating of the rates of chemists' remuneration for National Health dispensing, with special arrangements to operate until comprehensive information is available from the new inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member is referred to the reply to Question No. 4452 (Hansard, 10th May 1972, pages 2382-3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The information requested is not available for the reasons stated in answer to the honourable member's question on 6th May 1971 (Hansard, page 2927). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Approximately 1,600 adult migrants are currently attending part-time accelerated courses held in morning, afternoon and evening sessions. The greater proportion (880 students) are attending evening sessions. 
The courses (which are of 12 to 20 weeks duration) are being held at 15 centres in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory. The centres have in all an annual capacity of some 3,550 students. The actual centres where courses are held, and the number of classes at each centre, are: 
New South Wales- New South Wales Institute of Technology - Anthony Hordens annexe (7 classes), Cleveland Street Boys' High School (5), Darlinghurst Public School (6), Christian Brothers' College, Burwood (7), Westbridge 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of the National Health Act, medical practitioners may be recognised as specialists or as consultant physicians for the purposes of payment of higher rates of medical benefits to referred patients. The numbers of medical practitioners recognised in the specialty of ophthalmology as at 31st December 1971 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health Act makes provision for the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits to contributors to registered medical benefits organisations who incur expenses in relation to services rendered by qualified medical practitioners, or prescribed medical services rendered by approved dentists. The Act does not cover services rendered by optometrists, nor does it provide for payment of a benefit towards the cost of spectacles. 
However, in order to avoid discrimination between patients in the allied fields of optometry and ophthalmology in cases where spectacle lenses are prescribed, the Act specifically excludes the payment of Commonwealth benefits for attendances by medical practitioners which result in the prescription of spectacles. In this way, the patient is left in the same position whether the spectacles are prescribed by an optometrist or an opthalmologist. 
From time to time, the Government has given consideration to extending the Health Benefits Plan so that it includes ancillary services but, to date, such an extension has not been practicable. As the honourable member will appreciate, any proposal for the provision of benefits in respect of any particular type of ancillary service requires to be considered in the light of claims for benefits over the whole range of ancillary services. This raises a major consideration, namely, the additional burden which would be placed on the Australian taxpayer who, in 1971-72, is expected to provide some $510m from the National Welfare Fund for health services. 
While the matter is thus kept under review, I cannot promise that any early action will be taken to include optometry in the plan. 
However, most health insurance organisations pay ancillary fund benefits where spectacles are prescribed, and pay fund benefits towards the cost of spectacles. The major organisations provide these benefits only where the services are rendered, or the spectacles are prescribed, by medical practitioners. Certain other organisations pay fund benefits for optometrical as well as medical practitioner prescriptions. The question of whether, or the extent to which, health insurance organisations pay such ancillary benefits is regarded as essentially a matter for decision by the managements of the organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The detailed information sought by the honourable member is not available. Information as to total Commonwealth and fund benefit payments under the Medical Benefits Scheme is available, but not details of payments to general practitioners and specialists, respectively. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare made a number of recommendations concerning some areas of assistance to the handicapped where, in the view of the Committee, further governmental assistance both Commonwealth and State would be appropriate; and also concerning the co-ordination of Commonwealth activities in this field. 
The Committee's report is far reaching in its implications for both the Commonwealth and the States and the recommendations cover a wide range of issues which could affect questions of major policy in several Commonwealth Departments. The report and its recommendations are receiving, and will continue to receive, serious consideration. 
Radar for the Blind Chib (QuestioD No. 5685) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. I have read the circular mentioned but I have no knowledge that any foreign or other interests are negotiating to take over the Radar for the Blind Club. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ' 
The National Health Act provides the authority for the registration of . medical and hospital benefits organisations for the purposes of that Act. 
Tbe information sought by the honourable member in respect of State legislation is not available in my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health Act is the only relevant Commonwealth Act administered by the Commonwealth Minister for Health. 
There is no provision in that Act which permits the distribution of surplus contribution income by medical benefits organisations and hospital benefits organisations registered under the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Both honorary and salaried medical staff of public hospitals provide services to outpatients and public ward' inpatients of public hospitals. Insufficient information is available of the number and nature of the services provided by honorary and salaried medical staff, respectively, to enable an estimate to be made of the fees which would be received if payments were made for services by  practitioners at present classified as honorary. Nor is it possible to make a dissection between services to insured, uninsured and pensioner patients. 
 The amount of $18m mentioned in part A3 of the answer to question No. 4715 was the estimated additional cost of operating public hospitals that would be incurred in 1971-72 if sessional payments were made by the hospitals to general medical staff at present classified as honorary. This additional cost has no relevance to the fees at present collected by public hospitals for services rendered by, honorary and salaried medical staff. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost and number of medical services for the quarter ended 31st December 1971, on the same basis as the figures supplied in answer to question No. 4453, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the medical team which visited Collarenebri in March 1972, were: 

 Dr E. H. Hipsley, Medical OfficerIncharge of Nutrition Section, Commonwealth Department of Health. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) During 1969-70 there were three rates of Commonwealth hospital benefits paid on behalf of patients who received treatment in free public ward beds of public hospitals in Queensland. 
First, a benefit of $2.00 a day was paid for insured patients direct to the hospitals concerned by the hospital benefits funds. A separate figure of the expenditure involved with this benefit for public hospitals is not available in respect of 1969-70. However, $666,642 was expended in respect of insured patients occupying free beds in both public and private hospitals. It can be assumed that the greater proportion of this expenditure was in respect of public hospitals. 
Second, a benefit of $5.00  a day was paid for  pensioner patients who were enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service.Expenditure of $4,132,574 was involved with this benefit. 
Third, a benefit of 80 cents a day was paid for the remaining uninsured patients who were not enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service. A separate expenditure figure in respect of uninsured patients treated in free public ward beds is not available for 1969-70. However, the expenditure during 1969-70 for uninsured patients treated in public, intermediate and private ward beds was $764,009. 
On 1st July 1970, as a result of an amendment to the NationalHealth Act, a Commonwealth hospital benefit at the rate of $2.00 a day was introduced in respect of all non-pensioner patients, whether insured or uninsured, receiving free treatment in approved hospitals. Insofar as patients occupying free public ward beds are concerned, this benefit replaced the benefits outlined above in respect of insured patients treated in free public ward beds and uninsured patients. 
Total Commonwealth expenditure in 1970-71 by way of the new benefit introduced on 1st July 1970, in respect of non-pensioner patients occupying free public ward beds in public hospitals was $2,188,580. 
$988,543. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost to the Commonwealth of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme in each of the last ten years was - 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of medical practitioners recognised as specialists and consultant physicians for the purposes of the National Health Act as at 31st December 1971 is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In Australia, 3,244 persons died from lung cancer in 1970. This represents a mortality rate of 25.9 deaths per 100,000 of mean population. It is not possible to assess the influence of smoking on this mortality rate with any certainty. 
The Department of Health is aware of the content of authoritative reports such as those of the Royal College of Physicians of London and the United States Surgeon-General, and the relevant recommendations of the World Health Organisation. 
In a report to the Twenty-Third World Health Assembly in 1970 the main relationships revealed by prospective studies between smoking habits and mortality from all causes were presented. This report stated that the risk of developing lung cancer in heavy smokers is 15-30 times greater than in non-smokers. The risk of lung cancer was stated to increase directly in relation to the number of cigarettes smoked. 
Yes. 
This is a matter for insurance companies and I am unable to say whether premiums are affected by the factors mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Medical 97 per cent; 
Hospital 97 per cent. 
It is assumed the honourable member wishes to establish whether contributors are given the opportunity to vote for contributor representatives. If so, the answer is yes. 
Medical 82 per cent; Hospital 74 per cent. 
New South Wales- 331/3 per cent 
The one organisation represented by this percentage is a friendly society fund, the procedure for which is referred to in (2) above. 
Victoria - 100 per cent 
Two organisations are friendly society funds. The remaining organisation at present has 3 contributor representatives in its Governing body of 11. 
Both organisations are friendly society funds; see (2) above. 
South Australia - 662/3 per cent 
Both organisations are friendly society funds and one of these makes specific provision in its constitution for the election of contributor representatives. 
Western Australia -662/3 per cent 
One organisation is a friendly society fund. The remaining fund fulfils the provision by the fact that members of the Management Committee are proposed and seconded by contributors and elected by ballot of contributors present at the Annual General Meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Figures are not available for the incidence in States and Territories of the main forms of venereal disease, within various age groups. 
For the community generally, the figures in respect of syphilis and gonorrhoea, which are the main forms of venereal disease, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
While information specifically similar is not available for Australia, the following related informationcould be of interest to the honourable member. 
In a comprehensive survey on alcoholism presented to the 29th International Congress on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence at Sydney in 1970, research participants stated that, in Australia, within the age group 15 years and over, approximately 80 per cent of men*, and 70 per cent of women* drink alcoholic beverages. It further showed that, within the same age group, 5 per cent of men and 1 per cent of women were estimated to be alcoholics. 
In an article published in 1968 in the October issue of the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Sociology, an eminent research sociologist referred to New South Wales and stated that, during 1967, admissions and re-admissions for alcoholism to psychiatric centres and hospitals amounted to 21.7 per cent of all psychiatric admissions. 
A substantial number of alcoholics are to be found amongst the patients of general hospitals. Some expert observers in surveys conducted in Australia during the last 10 years have judged that between 10 per cent and 14 per cent of adult medical admissions to general and private hospitals would have a basic alcoholic problem. 
* From  proceedings of-  29th International  Congress  Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (pages 12-13_ Speaker:  Dr Rankin. 
The  Aust.&amp; N.Z. Journal of Sociology - October 1968 - article by socioligist M/s Margaret Sargent. 
  Article in Medical Journal of Australia 1967  by 
Drs  Rankin,  Santamaria and  O'Day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 2 medical and hospital benefits organisations with the largest memberships in each State are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The percentages of general practitioner sur gery consultations and home visits, by States, for which the most common fee or less was charged during the quarters ended  31st  December 1970 and 31st December 1971 (the latest quarter for which figures are available) are shown in the table hereunder. These figures are based on surveys of claims processed by the principal registered medical benefit organisations in each State during the particular quarters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits for which Commonwealth and/ or Fund benefits were paid for the year ended 31st December 1971, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A person, normally resident in the Australian Capital Territory, and his dependants are entitled to free outpatient treatment at the Canberra Hospital if the balance of the person's gross income remaining after making certain deductions is equal to or less than a prescribed wage. Deductions allowable are: 
for dependants - the amounts specified in sub-section (2) of section 82B of the Income Tax Assessment Act, 1936-1971; and 
for house rent or repayment - the amount to be actual and not exceeding the average rent for government-owned rental dwellings as advised by the A.CT. Assistant Secretary (Housing), Department of the Interior. 
Should a person not qualify under these provisions he may still be considered having regard to the following circumstances: 
periods of any recent hospitalisation and cost of treatment; 
illness among other members of the family; and costs of treatment; and 
unemployment or loss of wages through illness. 
These conditions do not extend to dental treatment provided at the Hospital. 
Yes. 
The income limit applying to low income families under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, in respect of free health insurance, is based on the average minimum wage payable under Commonweaalth awards in the various States. In determining eligibility for free health insurance, no deductions are allowed from the gross weekly income amount. 
With regard to assessing eligibility for free outpatient treatment at Canberra Hospital, certain deductions, as described earlier in this answer, are made from a person's gross income to determine a net figure. If this figure is equal to or less than the wage prescribed for a 'Labourer not otherwise specified', employed under the Miscellaneous Workers (ACT.) Award 1968, the person involved will qualify for the full outpatient treatment. 
I am aware of the means test referred to. 
Yes. 
The question of varying the income tests applicable to applicants for subsidised health benefits will be reviewed by the Government at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Health does not record these details on a family unit basis, and I am therefore unable to provide the information requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that a statement was made by  Dr W.  G. McBride regarding the absence of an epidemiologist and an expert on congenital malformations on the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. 
Whilst the formal membership of the Committee does not include such experts, the Committee is empowered to co-opt additional experts in these or any other disciplines, when this is necessary for the performance of its functions. 
The honourable member may be interested to know that the Minister recently approved the establishment of a Sub-Committee to investigate and advise him through the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee on all matters relating to drug-associated congenital abnormalities. 
The proposed membership of the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-Committee will include a physician, a pharmacologist, a paediatrician, an obstetrician, a teratologist and an epidemiologist. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2)- 
Fees have been charged to patients admitted ta mental hospitals in New South Wales since September, 1956. The level of fees payable is determined by a means test. 
No charges are made to patients in mental hospitals in Victoria. 
In December 1968, the Mental Health Regulations in Queensland were amended to allow for a 'maintenance charge for treatment, care and control of a patient accommodated in a section of a special hospital recognised by the Commonwealth Department of Social Services for the purpose of payment of Social Service Benefits.' 
South Australia has, since September 1969, charged fees to patients in mental hospitals in that State. The level of fees payable is determined by a means test. 
In Western Australia, section 19 of the Mental Health Act 1962-1969 of that State provides that the cost of maintenance and treatment may be recovered from a patient It also provides that these fees, except in certain specified cases, may be waived by the Director of Mental Health. It is understood that, except in those specified cases, fees are normally waived for all patients treated in an approved mental hospital. 
No fees are charged to patients in the Royal Derwent Hospital in Tasmania. 
Certain rehabilitation ward divisions of mental hospitals may be approved as benevolent homes under the provisions of the Social Services Act. Pensioners in these benevolent homes receive  a  pension at  a  rate fixed under Section SO of the Social Services Act. Any balance of the pension is paid to the authorities of the home for the maintenance of the pensioner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of subsidies paid prior to 1962-63 are not readily available. The table hereunder contains details of subsidies paid and numbers of nurses employed for each year commencing in 1962-63. Details of numbers of nurses employed on 30th June each year are not readily available, and the figures contained in column A of the table represent averages of the numbers of nurses employed during the 4 quarters of each yearcommencing in 1962-63. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Generally speaking, yes. However, there are some services for which greater levels of observance are recorded in States other than South Australia and Western Australia. 
No. 
Consumer prices (in index form) are one of various economic and other considerations, which have relevance in the periodic review of fees recommended by the Australian Medical Association to its members and the periodic review of medical benefits by the Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The National Health Act provides that Commonwealth medical benefits are payable in respect of medical expenses incurred for medical services specified in the First Schedule to the Act which are rendered by or on behalf of a medical practitioner. 
However, under the rules of some medical benefits insurance organisations, a fund medical benefit is only payable where the medical service is rendered by a medical practitioner in private practice. 
Accordingly, insured patients receiving such medical services at the Shepherd Foundation are entitled to receive Cammonwealth benefits. The eligibility for payment of fund medical benefits depends on the rules of the particular medical benefits organisation to which the patient contributes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The National Health Act provides that Commonwealth medical benefits are payable in respect of medical expenses incurred for medical services specified in the First Schedule to the Act which are rendered by or on behalf of a medical practitioner. 
However, under the rules of some medical benefits insurance organisations, a fund medical benefit is only payable where the medical service is rendered by a medical practitioner in private practice. 
Accordingly, insured patients receiving such medical services at the Medicheck Centre are entitled to receive Commonwealth benefits. The eligibility for payment of fund medical benefits depends on the rules of the particular medical benefits organisation to which the patient contributes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In Australia, registers of legally qualified optometrists are maintained by the respective States and mainland Territories. The registers could overstate the actual numbers of legally qualified optometrists in Australia or in a particular State or Territory for reasons such as the registration of one person in more than one State. 
At the dates indicated the number of names shown on the registers were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The medical benefits organisations which pay benefits for spectacles prescribed by ophthalmologists only are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed information is not available concerning the number of fully qualified medical practitioners graduating yearly in the USSR. It is noted, however, that a report on 'Post graduate Education for Medical Personnel in the USSR', published by the World Health Organisation in 1970, indicated that over 30,000 doctors, stomatologists and pharmacists graduate each year in the USSR. 
In 1971, 893 students graduated as MB.BS from medical schools in Australia. 
See (1) and (2) above. The need for newly graduated medical practitioners is dependent on a number of factors such as the current availability of manpower, not only in the medical, but in the paramedical professions; the health facilities available; morbidity in the population; and the system of delivering health care. It is therefore extremely difficult to make valid international comparisons without taking these factors into account. 
I am not aware of an official policy of the Australian Medical Association concerning the level of output from medical schools. 
and (6) A number of universities have recently increased or propose to increase their intake of medical students and an additional medical school is opening in South Australia in 1974. The need for a further expansion of training facilities is currently being examined by a committee of the Australian Universities Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the reply to Question No. 1348 by  Senator Poke  (Senate Hansard, 7th March 1972, page 476) the honourable senator was informed that the Government does not intend to implement the Nimmo Committee's recommendation that such a Commission be established. Similar information was provided in reply to the honourable member's Question No. 3955 (Hansard, 12th April 197% page 1568). 
It is not considered appropriate to disclose when this decision was made. 
Companies Registered in Norfolk Island (Question No. 5649) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) An examination concerning the Inclusion of paramedical services within the scope of the National Health Scheme was commenced in the Department of Health following the Government announcement of its decisions on recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo Committee). I announced in the House in June 1970 that all paramedical services would be objectively examined and priorities determined to enable decisions to be taken by the Government to include specific types in the Scheme. 
There is a wide range of paramedical services, including physiotherapy, optometry,- home nursing, chiropody, speech therapy, etc. Because of the diverse nature of these services and the interrelationships between them and medical and hospital treatment and Commonwealth and State financial arrangements, it will be appreciated that there are many implications associated with introduction of Insurance benefits  in  this area which must all be given full consideration. 
The examination is proceeding but at this stage I cannot indicate when it will be completed. 
The answer to the honourable  membr's  question is as follows: 
(a) The proportions of hospital beds which are provided by approved private and public hospitals as at 30th September 1971 are as follows: 
Australian Capital Territory included in New South Wales and Northern Territory included in South Australia. 
(b) Statistics of bed days provided by private hospitals are not available. 
(a) and (b) The numbers and precentages of approved private hospitals, according to bed size as at 30th September 1971, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names of the honorary members of the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the 1971-72 Annual Report of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations contains statements along the lines suggested by the honourable member. The statements are based upon a review of the world literature on this subject, current in 1966, which was made as a preliminary to a survey of the smoking habits of Australian schoolchildren, conducted by an hoc sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council and published by Council in 1969. They do not refer to the results of the Australian study. The full text of the sub-committee's conclusions, which generally support the literature review, is as follows: 
Smoking prevalence varies widely from school to school and from group to group and depends on many factors including local community conditions. 
There is an initial stage of experimentation in smoking. Some children do not progress beyond this stage while others persist in experimentation until, at a variable time interval, a state of true dependence or habituation is reached. 
This study suggests that smoking patterns and attitudes set by parents are important. Parental disapproval has an effect on the smoking behaviour of children and the attention of parents needs to be drawn to the fact that they can have a positive effect on their children's smoking status. 
Awareness of the health risks involved in snicking  was  iiic most powerful influence in those children who gave up smoking. Regular smokers were certainly as well informed as the non-smokers of the hazards involved in smoking. Health education campaigns have produced a tolerably wellinformed community among school children, but smoking among school children is still alarmingly high. 
The Sub-Committee does not see mass communications as an area where it is competent to undertake investigation but there are a number of unanswered questions in this field, the most important being whether the role of mass communications with regard to smoking is one of initiation or one of reinforcement. It is also possible that mass communications could influence opinion leaders among children. 
It is not planned at this stage to conduct further surveys of the kind referred to by the honourable member. 
I am aware of these claims, but I am not aware of any relevant findings which would be appropriate for publication by or on behalf of the Government. 
No. The relationship between smoking and ill health is accepted by the Government. 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fond (Question No. 5771)  Mr Hayden  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What sum was contributed to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund by (a) contributors and (b) the Commonwealth Government during the latest 12 months period for which figures are available. 
What sum was paid out of the Fund during the same period. 
What was the state of the Fund at the latest available date. 
Have any transfers been made from the Fund to consolidated revenue since the Fund came into operation; if so, what was the sura involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health Act, under which medical and hospital benefits organisations are registered, does not specify any matters in relation to investments other than that the organisations must furnish the Director-General of Health with such financial accounts and statements as he requires  to  prepare his annual report under Section 76a. Section 76a (fi) specifies that the report shall include 'details  of  how the reserves of the fund have been invested'. 1 have recently tabled the report in respect of the 1970-71 financial year. No regulations have been promulgated in relation to investments by health insurance organisations. 
On 27th October 1971, in answer to a question asked by  Senator Willesee,  the Minister  for  Health summarised the policy adopted in regard to investments made by health insurance organisations. 
The following is the text of the reply the Minister gave on that occasion - 
The reserves of medical and hospital benefits organisations are held in various forms. These include cash at bank, short term money market, bank fixed deposits, Commonwealth bonds and inscribed stock, semi-government bonds, local government shares, debentures and mortgages. Most funds hold a very high proportion of their reserves in trustee type investments. 
The various types of investments held are such that sufficient funds are always available to meet any contingencies in regard to the payment of claims. While there has been some investment in industrial type stock by some organisations, these have generally yielded satisfactory results. 
The Government examined the question of the investment policies of organisations when considering the recommendations made by the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo report). It concluded that funds had generally exercised a proper sense of responsibility in the assessment of reserves and that non-trustee investments have provided good returns to the advantage of contributors. The Government therefore decided that the policies followed by organisations in regard to investments should continue without the imposition of specific restrictions'. (Senate Hansard, pages 1485-1486). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The National Health and Medical Research Council, which is an advisory body to the Commonwealth and State governments, has for a number of years continually reviewed' the use of dichlorvos pest strips. Council has recommended that these strips should bear the following warning: 
Warning Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed seek medical advice. Avoid contact with food. 
Do not use in food cupboards. 
Do not use in nurseries and sick rooms where people may be continuously exposed. 
Council has also recommended a tolerance of 2ppm for dichlorvos in fruits, grains and vegetables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the Senate Standing Committee was presented to the Senate. The Senate debated the report on 11th May 1972. 
The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in respect of mentally and physically handicapped persons is very  far  reaching  in  its implications for both the Commonwealth and the States, and the recommendations of the report cover  a  wide range of issues which could affect questions of major policy in several Commonwealth Departments. The Commonwealth already provides substantial assistance in many of the areas covered by the recommendations of the report. The recommendations disclose certain areas where, in the opinion of the Senate Standing Committee, further Governmental assistance, both Commonwealth and State, would be appropriate. The report and its recommendations are receiving, and will continue to receive, serious consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By agreement at the 1970 Australian Health Ministers' Conference,  a  Council comprising the permanent heads of the State and Commonwealth Departments of Health, known as the Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council, was created. The Construction Planning Committee of the Council, which includes experts from all States and the Commonwealth, reports to Council on planning and equipping of hospitals and allied services. This Committee will carry out the work previously envisaged for the hospital planning bureau. Since 21st July 1971, the Committee hag met on 20th January 1972 and 18th May 1972. (2) No. 
I will be glad to discuss the honourable gentleman's question with my colleague but I should point out to him that the maximum quantities that are prescribed are the quantities recommended by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. In nearly all cases, as I understand it, they are related to the particular requirements of a course of treatment. Quite apart from that there does exist, under the Act, authority for the Commonwealth Director of Health in the State concerned, on application by the patient's medical practitioner, to authorise a larger quantity than that laid down, namely, 3 months supply. But it is up to the doctor whether he applies; because he might feel it necessary, in the patient's interest for the patient to come back and see him so that he can check on the patient's condition in a shorter period than 3 months. I will convey the honourable gentleman's  question to  my colleague and ask him to supply the honourable member with a detailed reply. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimate was based on an assessment of (i) information provided in confidence by the pharmaceutical industry on the number of women using oral contraceptives, (ii) statistics on the population of females in the 18 to 45 years age group, and (iii) Departmental experience related to the listing of new items as benefits and the removal of restrictions on existing benefits. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have seen this statement. However, it should be noted that cases of typhoid occur each year in the Australian community and have occurred for many years. 
1967-29 cases; 1968-79 cases; 1969-34 cases; 1970 - 19 cases; 1971 - 34 cases. A dissection of cases which occurred in migrants and non-migrants, respectively, is not available. 
Any person entering Australia who is ill on arrival or suspected of suffering from an infectious disease is seen by a quarantine medical officer, who takes appropriate measures designed to ensure that any infectious disease discovered is not spread in the community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Residents of Australia may nominate the following categories of relatives and dependants who are: 
Non-Europeans 
Spouses, fiances, fiancees, minor unmarried children and aged parents (fathers over 60 years of age and mothers over SO years of age where there are no dependent children normally resident outside Australia); 
Persons of Mixed Descent 
Spouses, fiances, fiancees, sons, daughters, parents, brothers and sisters and their dependants. 
(a) The following table shows the total numbers of non-Europeans and persons of mixed descent admitted to Australia for residence or granted resident status following entry for temporary residence during the last five years: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Detailed statistics have not been maintained. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to Question No. 5876. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. See answer to Question No. 5876. 
No. Any estimate would be speculative only. 
No estimate is possible. 
The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The following agreements affecting immigration have been made with other countries since 1945: 
The Government has not received any such approach and it would not expect to do so. Applications by Asians in Uganda will continue to be considered on their individual merits in accordance with our non-European immigration policies. These policies reflect the firm and unshakeable determination of the Government to maintain a homogeneous society in Australia. 
The decision not to renew  Mr 0'Donnell's  passport was, as I announced at the time, based on the fact that be is an official of a regime not recognised by the Australian Government. In this respect Australia acted in accordance with the terms of the United Nations resolution on this matter. I point out that the passports of the other 2 officials of the regime were issued prior to the United Nations resolution. Australian passports normally have a currency of 3 years and the Government believes that it would be unreasonable- 
I am sorry; Australian passports have a currency of 5 years and are issued in the normal expectation that they will continue for the currency of the term laid down. As these passports were issued prior to the United Nations resolution on this matter, it seemed reasonable to the Government to permit them to run the full course, which was the expectation when they were first issued to the people in question. However, we made it clear when I made an announcement about the Government's decision on  Mr O'Donnell's  passport that if these people were still officials of the Rhodesian Government at the time their passports expired they would not be renewed. 
I should like to make it clear that the act of withdrawing a passport is a very serious step indeed and only after very careful consideration would the Government deprive an Australian citizen of the right to hold a passport - particularly an Australian citizen who is normally resident in Australia. Of course, this is one of the differences between  Mr Crawford  on the one hand and Air ViceMarshal Hawkins on the other. But this does not mean - I should like to make this clear - that the mere fact of an issuing of a passport to  Mr Crawford  by no means indicates any sort of approval by the Government of the sort of visit he intends to make and the activities that he will undertake in Vietnam and on his return to Australia. Indeed, the Government made clear its attitude to what I would describe as the traitorous conduct of people like  Mr Crawford  by, some years ago, making all Australian passports not valid for North Vietnam. 
Yes. 
-I ask for leave to make a short statement to correct an answer I gave to a question which was asked at question time. 
I will endeavour to find out what information there is in the Department of Health on this matter and provide the honourable gentleman with a full reply. 
The attitude of the Australian Government to the admission of Asians from Uganda for residence remains basically the same as expressed by me in answer to a question from the honourable member for McPherson last week. However, I would add, in amplification of what I said then, that Australia's existing immigration policy has allowed and will continue to allow some Asians to migrate from Uganda, in particular persons who are qualified in professions to practise in Australia and who can be absorbed readily in those professions in Australia. I remind the House that Asians and other non-Europeans already are settling in Australia at the rate of some thousands per annum under these arrangements. But the Commonwealth Government is unable to depart from its policy of accepting only those people who can integrate successfully into the Australian community. We believe that this is in the interests not only of the Australian community but also of migrants coming to Australia for settlement. However, the Government recognises that there exists a humanitarian problem of great magnitude. The Government is keeping in close touch with developments and will give sympathetic consideration, in consultation with other governments, to other ways in which we can assist in relation to this difficult problem which initially arose between Britain and Uganda. 
I suggest that the honourable member should address his question to the Premier of Western Australia. The Commonwealth Government has an arrangement with the State governments, being the governments responsible for the provision of hospital care, whereby the 
Commonwealth pays $5 a day to hospitalise pensioners free of charge in the public wards in public hospitals. 
The honourable gentleman asked a question about this matter last week and 1 gave him my reply. I discovered subsequently that I was factually incorrect by a month or two - only a month or two - in relation to something that happened some years ago. I corrected what I had said in a subsequent statement to the House. I have nothing to add on this matter. 
In a minute I will say something about the extraordinary statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and some other members of the Australian Labor Party about our currency. But before doing so I would like to refer to a speech made earlier this afternoon by one of the people who have been involved in this extraordinary affair. I refer to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  This afternoon he chose to be highly critical of the Government's rural policy. He extolled to the House and to the country the latest rural policy of the Labor Party, which was recently unveiled with a great flourish - as if a rural policy which makes no mention of the Labor Party's attitude to the 35-hour week, no mention of the Labor Party's attitude to cost-push inflation and the part of wages in that, and no mention of the Labor Party's relationship with the city based unions and its domination by them can be described as a rural policy at all. However, I do not want to treat it on that basis. 
I want to quote, not what I have said, but what somebody else has said about the document which the Labor Party unveiled recently and which is entitled 'A Rural Policy'. I quote not what I have said, because I would be described as a biased member of the Liberal Party, but what an eminent independent commentator on rural affairs,  Mr Ronald  Anderson who publishes the 'Primary Industry News Letter', had to say about the Labor Party's rural policy. He said: 
Now we know where all those mice in Queensland come from! They are the offspring of the numerous mountains which have been labouring for so long in southern latitudes. One such mountain is the Australian Labor Party (perhaps an alp rather than a mountain?), which - after years of cogitation, heartburning, internal argument and public confusion - has produced a very mouselike 1972 Federal election rural policy brochure. The ALP document is the product of a highly-skilled group - highly-skilled at saying nothing. It says a large number of things no one would argue with, some things which are meaningless and virtually nothing new. The whole brochure is, in fact, a delicate balancing act - each positive move being carefully balanced (not too obviously) by a welldisguised qualification. Not that there are many positive moves, apart from the establishment of a Federal Rural Commission to present to the Commonwealth Government 'factual recommendations designed to solve problems in rural industries'. Not many people would argue with that, except those farmer organisations which might see their present behind-the-scenes role being usurped. One ALP phrase which could scare the pants off some farmer leaders is reference to 'preservation of the nucleus of primary industry'. 
That is the Labor Party's policy. I must say that the phrase 'preservation of the nucleus of primary industry' scares the pants off me too.  Mr Anderson  continued: 
But of course the ALP balances the seesaw by saying 'selective subsidies, bounties and embargoes (the Merino embargo?) will continue to be an integral part of Labor's economic policies'. Of course these policies will bc administered 'with due regard to economic principles', but then again it also believes that export bounties may be paid on farm products to 'offset cost disabilities caused by tariffs' and promises to 'maintain the economic viability of primary industry'. AH told, the ALP rural policy is so vague that it is meaningless. lt wallows in the use of words like assist, review, recognises, will strengthen, will provide incentives, will encourage and will initiate evaluation ... all so much verbal garbage when one thinks about it. The specific sections dealing with wool, wheat, dairying, meat and sugar offer nothing new or significant at all. The so-called promises are so vague, or are of things which already exist (or are about to do so), that they provide nothing but literary window-dressing. The 'policy' bears the marks of Labor's 'Big Three' rural men - Patterson, Grassby and Whan - but doesn't seem to be any better as a result. All told it is painfully disappointing and PIN can't imagine ANY party winning uncommitted rural votes on the strength of this sort of  wishy  washy stuff. 
I did not say that. That is what was said by one of Australia's most respected independent commentators on rural industries about the Labor Party's rural policy which the honourable member for Riverina extolled this afternoon. 
In this Budget, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said, the Government has gone to the borders - not beyond the borders - of economic responsibility. In other words, it has a responsible economic prescription for the economy as it is at the present time. Everything implied in the Opposition's amendment would push the Budget beyond the border and into economic irresponsibility. What is true of the Opposition's approach to the Budget is equally true of its attitude to another vital part of economic policy making, namely, the level of the currency. We cannot say that we have not been warned. The Leader of the Opposition has given us all - members on both sides of the House and the electors of this nation - due notice that he aspires to be the first professed socialist on planet Earth to rule by divine right. Never mind the well founded views of his Party colleagues. Never mind the best interests, fiscal or humanitarian, of the people of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition has given us all notice that as soon as he is given the opportunity he will upvalue the Australian dollar. Once again we see him, a grotesque apparition with his Achilles heel in his mouth, determined at all costs to justify such a stance.  His  caucus colleagues nave entreated him to acknowledge the error of his ways but although it may well cost them the next election as indeed it should, if they insist on giving front bench space to such a Leader it is clear that he will continue to speak and act unilaterally whatever it costs them so long as his leadership life shall last. Greater love hath no man than this: That he would lay down his friends for his life. Once again, breathing heavily from on high, the Leader of the Opposition has spoken and imperiously- 
He has stilled all voices around him, including that of the honourable member for Bendigo. The dollar will be upvalued. Indeed, as it has been said of another socialist with delusions of grandeur: There but for the grace of God goes God'. 
Even if subsequent events determine that the dollar is not to be upvalued, even if my faith in the inherent, basic good sense of the Australian electorate is to be justified by the decision in the near future that it does not want to be governed by the fastest lip in the West and it transpires that the 
Leader of the Opposition never gets the opportunity to pave his way with our currency, be will still have done this nation a very considerable disservice in the meantime. The only virtue in all this is that once again the nation has been reminded - the reminder is most timely coming as it does on the eve of an election - that if by any horrible quirk of fate the Leader of the Opposition should attain the Prime Ministership, we can expect to be governed with a degree of responsibility roughly equivalent to that of a maddened bull in a china shop. 1 find no quarrel with the Leader of the Opposition holding the opinion that the Australian dollar is undervalued. It is a theory advanced by some very clever people at the Reserve Bank and elsewhere. But what I do find inexcusable and what I do insist makes him unfit to hold high public office is the manner of expression of that opinion. The utterly appalling thing is that he should so readily, so mindlessly transpose his opinion into a public statement of instant policy - a recommendation that the dollar should be upvalued and notice to the nation that as leader of the government of Australia he would upvalue it. 
Time and again the Leader of the Opposition has displayed the trait in his character which compels him to put his foot in his mouth. This is the man who in recent months has been so free with his moralistic lectures - we have all heard them in this House - on the propriety of the actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and other senior Ministers on this side of the House. We have been made to believe that he, the Leader of the Opposition, is the repository of the proprietal virtues developed under the British system of parliamentary government. The instances on which he has adopted his high moral tone have been trivial to say the least. Yet he himself has fallen on his face in a matter where the conventions are significant, rigid, and to my knowledge have never been questioned. This is rightly so because nothing can be more fundamental to the life of a nation than the stability and the strength of its currency. 
Opposition leaders in banana republics may speculate about the future of their currency; Opposition leaders in countries brought up under the conventions of British parliamentary government should not and, except where one like the honourable gentleman emerges with the political morals of an alley cat, they do not. Repeatedly he has caused his parliamentary colleagues and the people of this nation considerable embarrassment both at home and abroad. But the dangers to us all of his intransigence, of the demands of his superego, will be increased enormously should he be permitted to lead an alternative government. It is not as though in this particular case he did not have the advantage of a recent precedent. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out, he could not have failed to be aware of the example of the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Healey,  who, in a parallel situation in Britain, suddenly declared that the pound sterling should be devalued. The expression of this opinion set up a disastrous chain reaction which disrupted so many markets for British goods that ultimately Britain was left with no real alternative but to float its currency. 
Ever anxious to grab a headline and to divert attention from the embarrassing position in which his Leader had placed him, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has made the quite untrue statement that the Treasurer has been discussing the revaluation of the Australia1! dollar with the representatives of overseas governments. He has not provided a shred of evidence - although he had the opportunity to do so this afternoon - for this statement, which the Treasurer has denied. Until he does we must assume that it is a figment of imagination designed to grab a headline. This is not the first time that the honourable gentleman has done this. Recently he made a statement about South American migrant girls, which on investigation proved to be completely unfounded in every single particular. In that case all that he did was to cause a great deal of embarrassment and suffering to his innocent victims. In this case he has helped to add fuel to the fire of doubt started by his Leader surrounding the Australian currency, with all the consequences which flow from it. 
Yet despite all this, the ego of the Leader of the Opposition is of such gargantuan proportions that he will not recant, though it may cost us all very dearly indeed. While his Leader was busy proclaiming on television last Thursday his resolve to upvalue the dollar the shadow 
Minister for Primary Industry, his front bench colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  was busy warning the rural community of what a Labor government led by the honourable gentleman has in store for it. Quite clearly and in essence, the statement of the Leader of the Opposition means that he has given farmers due notice that the alternative government will reduce their incomes at the first opportunity. He has given notice that by upvaluing our currency he will ensure that the capacities of all our export industries will be reduced, while competition which our domestic industries have with imports will become even more intense. 
In a situation in which we have a number of rural problems, where there is a degree of stagnation in secondary industry and where export mining industries are finding it difficult to get prices which will make their operations profitable, the Leader of the Opposition chooses to make a statement which runs completely contrary to a Budget aimed at getting those stagnant areas of the economy moving again. He has thrown confusion into industry; he has undermined confidence at a time when it is vital to build up confidence. Theoretically, the Reserve Bank may be right. We can all have opinions about that. Perhaps an argument could be advanced to support a proposition that the Australian dollar is undervalued, but the Reserve Bank never has had and never will have to make a decision in relation to such an opinion. That is the job of the Government. That being the case, the Government cannot permit itself the luxury of speculating on what should or should not happen to the currency. The same applies with equal force to the Leader of the Opposition in the period immediately prior to an election. The Leader of the Opposition already has made the decision for the alternative government. As I have said, we cannot say that we have not been warned of both the nature of the man who aspires to lead us and the immediate effects of the decisions he has taken. 
by leave - As a result of the new nursing home and home care benefits announced in the Budget, some 67,000 chronically ill people and their relatives throughout Australia will have their financial burden very greatly reduced. My colleague, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  in a statement to the Senate on 16th August outlined the results of the Government's' decisions following its comprehensive examination of the role of nursing homes in caring for the chronically ill aged and how best to extend furtherassistance to nursing home patients and to other aged people in the community who need nursing services. Legislation is now being prepared to implement these new benefits arrangements and will be introduced into this House during the current session. 
In brief, there are 3 new kinds of benefit for nursing home patients and aged persons who are chronically ill. Some 37,000 pensioner medical service patients in nursing homes are to receive additional Commonwealth benefits ranging up to $10.50 a week in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania, to $11.20 in Western Australia, to $14.00 in South Australia and to $22.40 in Victoria. Ten thousand non-pensioner nursing home patients will be eligible, if insured, for the same weekly benefits through the health insurance system. It is estimated that 20,000 chronically ill aged people will attract a new domiciliary nursing care benefit of $14 a week. It is the intention of the Government to implement the new nursing home benefits on 1st January 1973, and the domiciliary care benefit on 1st March 1973. To supplement the information already provided in the Minister's statement on 16th August, I can now give further details of the way in which these new bentfits will be provided. 
The additional benefits will give pensioner medical service patients coverage against the fees charged in all but the most expensive nursing homes. In New South Wales taking into consideration the existing . benefit entitlements, the maximum Commonwealth benefits available will be $56 a week in the case of patients receiving intensive care and $35 a week in the case of ordinary care patients. The maximum benefits in the other States will be as follows: 
On top of this, of course, pensioners receive their substantially increased social service pensions and supplementary benefits 
Up to date, pensioner patients in nursing homes, after having contributed their full pension, in many cases still required assistance from relatives to meet the gap which remained between the nursing home benefits they received and their actual nursing home fees. The implementation of the new benefit arrangements will mean that pensioner patients in the majority of nursing homes will be able to meet the costs of their nursing home care and in most cases still retain about $6 of their pension for their personal needs. These arrangements will not only remove from pensioners and their relatives the worry of meeting the costs of nursing home care but will also, I suggest, help to maintain the pensioners' sense of personal independence and dignity. These arrangements for pensioner medical service patients will cover some 80 per cent of the people in nursing homes and will involve the Commonwealth in additional expenditure in a full financial year of $2 1.9m. For patients who do not have pensioner medical service entitlement cards the Government has decided to use the voluntary health insurance machinery as a vehicle to extend similar assistance towards nursing home costs. 
The present gap between the benefits provided and the fees charged will therefore be significantly reduced. For single pensioners in most nursing homes this gap will be fully met by the pensioner contributing some 75 per cent of his pension entitlements. For other patients a similar contribution - amounting to some $18 a week - will be necessary. This contribution is seen by the Government as reasonable, bearing in mind that the nursing home is the patient's residence as well as the place where he receives his nursing care. Patients in the most expensive nursing homes will, of course, be required to meet the larger gap from their own resources. However, I would stress that the majority of patients' contributions will not exceed $18 a week. The benefits to be provided for patients who do not have pensioner medical service cards will be paid through hospital benefit funds and will initially be financed by the funds out of their reserves. These patients, to receive the new benefits, will need to be insured with a hospital benefits organisation of their own choice. All people who are at present covered for hospital insurance will receive the nursing home benefits if they become nursing home patients. In other words, the hospital benefit system will in future cover- nursing home care as well as hospital treatment. The cost of these insurance benefits will be $5 .4m over a full financial year and, as I have already mentioned, will initially be financed from hospital fund reserves. 
I have mentioned that these new arrangements will provide very good coverage against present nursing home costs. Obviously, however, consideration must be given to ensuring that this favourable position for patients is maintained. The Government has therefore decided that the new benefits will be paid only in respect of patients accommodated in nursing homes which agree to charge patients fees agreed to by the Government. The machinery by which this will be achieved has already been spelt out by the Minister in his 16th August statement. 
Some nursing home proprietors have expressed opposition to the requirement that fee increases above the amounts being charged at 30th June 1972 should be restricted to those receiving Commonwealth approval. Some of this criticism has, I feel, been based on a misconception that nursing home fees are simply to be pegged. This, of course, would be unreasonable at a time when costs are increasing in all sectors of industry. The situation in fact is that nursing home proprietors will in future be required to demonstrate that proposed fee increases above the levels being charged at 30th June 1972 can be justified. In cases where fee increases are justified, adjustments to the fees will be permitted. The Department of Health has in fact recently written to all nursing home proprietors advising them of the general grounds on which they may make application for fee increases. 
The Government, in its comprehensive approach to meeting the needs of chronically ill elderly people, has decided to introduce domiciliary care benefits. This will break new ground in the field of social welfare in Australia. The Government, in its study of the care of sick elderly people, was aware of the social and medical advantages which apply when aged people needing only light nursing care are able to be maintained within their own family circle. There are obviously many cases where patients would lead happier and fuller lives if their family financial situation enabled them to remain in their homes and to receive an appropriate level of nursing care. 
From 1st March 1973, the $14 a week benefit will be available to relatives caring for chronically ill aged people in need of continuing professional nursing care equivalent to that which would be received by nursing home patients. As this benefit is designed to provide a viable alternative to nursing home care, the eligibility criteria have been set to conform with those applying to the majority of nursing home patients. The majority of ordinary care nursing home patients are over 65 years of age and require, apart from general supportive services, at least 2 hours a week of professional nursing attention. As a rule, home care patients will qualify for the new benefit if they need and generally receive daily visits by a registered nurse. Other cases, of course, will be dealt with on their individual merits. The estimated cost of the new domiciliary care benefit in a full financial year is $14.5m. 
To help in the development of this whole home care concept, the Government will increase its present subsidies to organisations providing home nursing services. From 1st September 1972, the maximum subsidy payable under the new rates will be $4,300 per annum for each additional nurse employed on home nursing. This increased assistance will provide further incentives to these organisations to develop and extend their services to meet the increasing demand for nursing care at home. It is worth noting that, since 1956 when the home nursing subsidy scheme was begun, the number of nurses employed by home nursing organisations has increased from 210 to 1,000. The Commonwealth will also discuss with State governments means of extending the range of other home care services presently provided. These new benefits are the result of the Government's comprehensive review of the particular needs of the elderly chronically ill people in our community. Nursing homes have played a most important role in providing for these needs in the past, and it is in recognition of the fact that this role will be continued that the new nursing home benefit arrangements were introduced. However, expert professional opinion is increasingly aware of the social advantages in retaining our aged people, wherever possible, in the home environment. The requirement is for a balanced approach, having due regard to the real needs of the aged. In many cases, nursing and medical care form only part of these needs with the remainder able to be adequately provided by the family, relatives or friends. 
The number of elderly people in our population is increasing each year and therefore the requirement to provide community services and benefits based on the particular needs of this segment of the population needs to be given special consideration. It is also a fact of modern day living that the evolution of the so-called nuclear family tends to exclude, often through necessity rather than choice, the care of parents or grandparents in the same home as their children or other relatives. But it is also true that there are many families who feel deeply a sense of family totality and who make considerable sacrifices to keep elderly relatives within the home even when they may require constant nursing. Such people are to be admired. But the Government wants now to see that they receive, on behalf of the community at large, more than just admiration. We trust that the new domiciliary care benefit will not only assist people to meet the financial consequence of their dedication to sick friends or relatives but also help maintain that special sense of service, security and satisfaction which grows out of such dedication. These new nursing home and domiciliary care benefits, taken together with the other initiatives in the field of social welfare announced in the Budget, demonstrate the determination of the Government to correct imbalances of opportunity within the community and to assist those who need it to receive health care and comfort without loss of dignity or independence. I present the following paper: 
Nursing Home and Home Care Benefits - Ministerial Statement, 29 August 1972. 
Motion (by  Dr Mackay)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honour  able  member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details in respect of (1) (i) - insured bed days - are not available for separate categories of hospitals. Details in respect of 1 (ii) and 1 (iv) - uninsured and free bed days - are available separately only in respect of public and private hospitals. 
In relationto (1) (iii) - pensioner bed days - it should be noted that Commonwealth pensioner hospital benefits are paid only for hospitalisation in public wards of public hospitals. It should also be noted that Commonwealth hospital benefits were restructured on 1st January 1963, and the earliest year for which comparable figures are available is 1963-64. 
Number of days for which hospital benefits were paid in respect of insured patients(a). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts transferred from reserves by medical and hospital funds to meet current costs in each financial year since the voluntary health insurance scheme came into operation, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The governing body (Council) of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited consists of 24 persons, made up of 12 medical practitioners and 12 contributors' representatives. 
The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited pays fund benefits for consultations where spectacles are prescribed on the same basis as for other consultations by medical practitioners. The amount of $8.25 represents $4.25 fund benefit in respect of the initial referred consultation with a specialist and $4.00 in respect of the supply of the spectacles. 
and (4) The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited does not provide ancillary benefits for eye testing and the supply of spectacles when carried out by optometrists. In this respect, the Government policyis not to interfere unduly in such matters, particularly as no Commonwealth benefit component is involved. In accordance with this policy, the terms and conditions for payment of such ancillary benefits are mainly matters for the management committee of the organisation to determine. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
July 1970. 
Thirteen occasions. 

 Dr L. J. Wienholt  (Chairman), Dr 1. O. Kent-Hughes, Dr I. L. McVey, Dr R. V.ai). Mr L.  H. Lambert,  Mr L.  B. Holgate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The following amounts are available under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 to the respective States during the five-year period ending 30th June 1974: 
 As the honourable gentleman would be aware if he has followed the statements made by the Government, the administration of the immigration pro gramme has been remarkably sensitive to the situation of employment in Australia. There has been very close consultation between my Department and the Department of Labour and National Service and, during the period in which unemployment has been higher than we would wish, regular instructions have been issued to our overseas posts to make absolutely certain or as certain as one can be that people are not brought to Australia in occupational categories in which they would have difficulties in finding employment in Australia. I have received advice about the number of migrants in migrant hostels and the periods for which they have waited in the hostels before obtaining employment. The advice is that things have been better than normal throughout this period. I believe that this is a remarkable effort on the part of the Government and the 2 departments concerned. That being the situation, I do not believe that the second and third parts of the honourable member's question apply. 
I have not seen nor do 1 know anything of the advertisement referred to, except the part the honourable gentleman has read, but from what he has read it appears to be a very good advertisement giving a very good description of the wonderful conditions that have been created in this country by a Liberal-Country Party Government over the last 23 years. Taken as a whole, in my view, it presents an accurate picture of what Australia holds for somebody who has what it takes. Let us not forget that, as part of the advertisement states, it is being addressed to somebody who is prepared to come to Australia to work hard, expend a bit of energy and display a bit of initiative. As the honourable gentleman well knows, every detail cannot be placed in an advertisement. A continuous advertising campaign is being conducted in the United Kingdom and it in general, and I believe in fair terms, represents what Australia has to offer. But relative to the detailed knowledge which a potential migrant has in front of him before he ultimately makes a decision to migrate to Australia, the advertisements are only the start of the process. 
I would imagine that no person makes a decision to migrate to Australia on the basis of one of those advertisements. After a person reads an advertisement, the next step is for him to see the Australian immigration officers in the United Kingdom to be counselled, to make specific inquiries and to be given literature^ - for example, a pamphlet on wage rates and employment opportunities, which is amended at least 3 or 4 times a year and contains all the information to which the honourable gentleman alluded and which is available to the potential migrant - before even making a decision to apply to come to the country and before coming into contact with a selection officer and a counselling officer who are there to see that the potential migrant has available to him accurate information about current conditions in Australia. If those officers believe that a potential migrant has an unrealistic view of what he is likely to find when he comes to Australia, they tell him so. I make absolutely no apology for what my Department does in this respect in the United Kingdom in the terms of the honourable gentleman's question. 
Minister for Immigration) - by leave - I wish to inform the House of the measures by which effect will be given to the Government's announced policy of placing increasing emphasis on migrant counselling and selection and migrant education and welfare services. 
I will detain the House only briefly. There are 2 matters with which I wish to deal. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  raised a case. Unfortunately, I was not able to be present to hear the early part of what he had to say about this case. I heard the latter part of it. It is a rather complicated story. I sympathise with the position of the people concerned. All I would like to say is that I will study the Hansard report of his speech carefully and give him full advice on the situation. 
I am told that earlier the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  chose to launch a personal attack on me. It is not my policy to answer personal attacks. I will content myself with saying this: The honourable gentleman referred to the fact that I asked him to come down to my office. He chose publicly to interpret this as my being fearful of my electoral prospects and trying to buy him off. I would like to make it quite clear that that is not so. As I made clear to him at the time. I asked him to come down to my office because 1 wanted to give him a little fatherly advice  -  not fatherly in the sense that 1 regard myself as being older than the honourable gentleman because 1 think that he is older than I am, but fatherly in the sense in which we talk about it in this House, namely, that T have been a member of this House for very much longer than he has. What I wanted to suggest to him in the most considerate terms was that, if he continued in the way he was going, in many respects he would find himself emulating the ex-member for Adelaide,  Mr Andrew  Jones, and that he would suffer the fate of Andrew Jones. Andrew Jones, for all his good qualities - that applies also to the honourable member for Sturt - in many ways pursued the same sort of course as the honourable gentleman. The electorate took care of  Mr Jones  in the same way as, after listening to the honourable member tonight, 1 am sure it will take care of him. 
The screening methods are designed specifically to exclude from Australia, so far as is possible, extremists of both the Right and the Left. In that context I can give the honourable gentleman the assurance which he seeks in relation to Arab terrorists. I feel just as strongly about them as he does. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

Commonwealth benefits only- 799,000 
Fund benefits only- 1,534,000 
(a)- 
The first footnote to the reply to the above question published in Hansard on 31st May 1972, at pages 3419- 3420, is incomplete. The footnote should read - 
*The Council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia consists of 24 persons, 12 of whom are nominated by the State Executive Committee of New South Wales, 8 by the State Executive Committee of Queensland and 4 by the State Executive Committee of Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) The Bill to amend the National Health Act to provide for the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan was introduced in the House of Representatives on 24th September 1969, at which time the weekly rates of minimum wage for adult males, as defined by the Commonwealth conciliation and Arbitration Commission, were: Sydney $39.60; Melbourne $38.80; Brisbane$38.40; Adelaide $38.40; Perth$38.90; Hobart $39.50. In accordance with the Government's policy that the eligibility limit be fixed with regard to the average of the Commonwealth minimum wages for each State, the gross income level which determined eligibility under the Plan was fixed at $39 per week. The amending Act was proclaimed on 27th September 1969 and, to allow sufficient time for the necessary administrative arrangements to be made, the starting date for the Plan was determined as 1st January 1970. 
The rates of minimum wage were amended as from 19th December 1969, and became: Sydney $43.10; Melbourne $42.30; Brisbane $40.60: Adelaide $41.90; Perth $42.40; Hobart $43. It was not possible to amend the eligibility level for low income families until the following parliamentary session as the change involved an amendment to the National Health Act. The revised eligibility limits applied from 1st July 1970, together with other changes as outlined below. 
(b) At 1st January 1970, 4 States had tribunals which prescribed minimum wages for adult males similar in concept to the abovementioned Commonwealth 'minimum wage'. In these States the rates then were: Victoria $42.30; South Australia $41.90; Western Australia $42.40; Tasmania $43. The first prescription of a similar 'minimum wage' for adult males in Queensland State awards was made on 8th May 1970. On that date the rate to operate in the Southern Division - Eastern District, including Brisbane, from the beginning of the first pay period commencing on or after 8th May 1970, was $42.80. State awards in New South Wales do not include provisions prescribing minimum wage rates for adult males similar in concept tothe Commonwealth award provision. 
The eligibility limits for low income families under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan have been altered on 3 occasions, 1st July 1970, 1st March 1971 and 5th June 1972. As from 1st July 1970, the Government decided to provide also graduated assistance toward the costs of contributing for health insurance to 2 additional groups of low income families. Under the new arrangements eligible persons are entitled to coverage under the Plan by the payment of one-third or two-thirds of normal health fund contributions. 
Income limits in respect of the 3 groups are set at weekly figures for applicants of less than pensionable age and at yearly amounts for those of pensionable age. Details of the applicable limits, together with effective dates, are: 
The Minister for Health has advised that the footnotes (a) and (b) to the reply to this question, published in Hansard on 31st May 1972 at pages 3420- 1, are incorrect. The correct position is that the figures for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, which are not available separately, are included in the figures for the States in which the contributor's organisation is located. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Pending final consideration of the recommendation, there has been no examination of the nature of the required legislative authority, 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as  follows: 
and (3) The desirability of legislation to regulate the practice of physiotherapy in the Australian Capital Territory is accepted. However, the considerable amount of work that remains to be done by the Department of Health and the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel cannot be accorded as high a priority as a number of more pressing legislative tasks. 1 am not aware of any immediate problems caused by the lack of the proposed legislation but, nonetheless, the work will be put in train as soon as practicable. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the Minister provided the answer to the honourable member's previous question (No. 4625) it was pointed out that there were certain qualifications to the figures provided which would be relevant to any conclusions that might be drawn. Qualifications will also apply in respect of this answer and these are: 
The figures for eligible low income families supplied by the Department of Social Services are those as at 3rd January 1972 and for unemployment, sickness or special beneficiaries as at 25th December 1971. Those figures may not coincide with the enrolment figures as supplied by health insurance organisations. 
Some health insurance organisations do not maintain detailed membership records and the membership figures which have been supplied, are, to some degree, on an estimated basis; for example, some organisations do not take into account changes arising from lapses in individual membership until some time after an individual membership lapse has occurred. 
In the case of unemployment, sickness or special beneficiaries, a proportion would already be enrolled as ordinary insured persons with organisations and they may not consider it worthwhile taking advantage of subsidised benefits because of the possible short period involved. 
With regard to migrants, it is necessary to take into consideration that the total figures for migrant settlers do not represent the number of persons entitled to be enrolled in the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan because, in the case of families, enrolment by the head of the family provides Subsidised Health Benefits entitlements for the whole of the family. The numbers of single persons and of family groups of particular sizes are available for assisted migrants but, in the case of unassisted migrants, the figures used in this answer represent an estimate made by the Department of Immigration. 
The figures provided relate to the position at a particular point of time and therefore do not give a true indication of the extent to which persons are availing themselves of the benefits provided under the Plan. It should also be noted that the number enrolled in funds does not reflect the success or otherwise of the Plan as, in the main, only those who receive treatment and need benefits are in fact enrolling. 
With the foregoing in mind, the following information, as at 31st December 1971, is provided: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The designation 'dental therapist' is not in common usage throughout Australia. It is used in South Australia, Western Australia and the Australian Capital Territory, but the designation 'dental nurse' is applied in Tasmania and New South Wales for the same category of personnel. The distinction has been maintained in the information provided below. 
Dental therapists are at present being trained in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. At the Dental Nursing School in Tasmania the designation dental therapist' is used in relation to personnel being trained for Australian Capital Territory Health Services, and 'dental nurse' for those to be employed in Tasmania. At 31st May 1972 the following numbers were in training: 
Dental therapists - 
South Australia, 29; 
Western Australia, 27; 
Tasmania, 9. 
Dental Nurses - Tasmania, 17. 
The qualifications of dental therapists are recognised in South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory. In Western Australia amendments have yet to be made to the Dentists' Act to provide for control and administration of dental therapy. In Tasmania the qualifications of dental nurses (from Tasmania and New Zealand) are recognised, while qualified dental therapists from South Australia and dental nurses from Tasmania and New Zealand are recognised in New South Wales. Legislation permitting the employment of dental therapists in Queensland and the Northern Territory is under consideration. There is as yet no formal requirement for registration as such in any State. 
Dental therapists (dental nurses) are employed in schools in 'New South Wales. South Australia, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory. The numbers employed at 31st May 1972 were: 
New South Wales - 5 dental nurses. 
South Australia - 52 dental therapists. 
Tasmania - 33 dental nurses. 
Australian Capital Territory - 12 dental therapists. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under Section 13 (1) of the National Health Act, the Director-General of Health may approve dentists or dental practitioners for the purpose of payment of medical benefits for prescribed medical services rendered in the operating theatre of an approved hospital. 
To facilitate the approval of dentists and dental practitioners under the Act, a Medical Benefits (Dental Practitioners) Advisory Committee and a Medical Benefits (Dental Practitioners) Appeal Committee have been established to consider applications from, and appeals lodged by, dentists or dental practitioners. These Committees consist of dental practitioners nominated by the Australian Dental Association, and make recommendations to the Director-General of Health that the dentist or dental practitioner should or should not be approved for the purposes of the Act. 
The main criteria adopted for granting approval for the purposes of the Act are that the dentist in question should be: 
A recognised oral surgeon who is engaged in the practice of oral surgery; or 
a dental practitioner who can substantiate, by his experience or hospital or teaching appointment, a competence in the field of oral surgery,. 
The Act also provides that (in respect of a referral arising out of a dental service), where a registered dentist refers a patient to a specialist, medical benefits are payable at the higher specialist referred rate. Commonwealth and fund hospital benefits are paid in respect of hospital treatment provided in approved hospitals. 'Hospital treatment' means accommodation and nursing care for the purpose of professional attention, which includes dental treatment by or under the supervision of a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner. The dental treatment may be provided by any dentist registered under the law of a State or Territory. I am informed that some health insurance organisations pay fund benefits under dental benefits schemes, which operate separately from their registered medical and hospital funds. Also, some Friendly Societies have their own dental surgeries where they employ, qualified dentists and provide dental services to their members who contribute specially for this service. 
As at 31st July 1972, there were 111 dentists and dental practitioners approved for the purposes of section 13 (1) of the National Health Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. Importation of bovine semen through a facility such as Schwandorf can be safely undertaken only by a country which operates a maximum security animal disease laboratory with the capacity for testing imported semen for the presence of foot and mouth disease virus. Both Australia and New Zealand quarantine authorities are of the opinion that, in the absence of such a facility, livestock products such as bovine semen should not be imported from any country where foot and mouth disease is present. 
New Zealand is able to import livestock direct from certain countries of Europe whereas Australian imports of cattle are limited to stock from New Zealand. 
I am informed that the New Zealand Government has agreed to the establishment and operation of privately owned quarantine centres under strict government quarantine supervision. 
The honourable member may be assured that every measure is being taken to accelerate the establishment of a high security animal quarantine station on an offshore island. However, the project is complex and detailed consideration of design and siting is essential to ensure a safe and effective approach, 
In relation to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I am advised that, based on Japanese studies, at a level of 0.5 parts per million of mercury clinical symptons of toxicity appear at an intake of approximately 21i oz per day. I am advised also that in order to provide safety for vulnerable groups such as high fish consumers and unborn children, it is necessary to apply a safety factor of 20 to this, which reduces the safe intake, at the level of 0.5 parts per million, to one oz per day. In relation to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is a fact that in Japan there have been epidemics of fatal poisoning due to this cause. In relation to the third part of the honourable gentleman's question, as a result of the concern expressed by several Health Ministers, the Director-General of Health, who is the  Chairman  of the National Health and Medical Research Council, called a meeting of the Public Health Advisory Committee as recently as 6th September, last Wednesday week, to consider the available evidence in relation to this matter. As the honourable member will be aware, after considering all the scientific evidence available on this question, the Committee reaffirmed the previous position of the Council. This will now go to the full meeting of the Council in November. I appreciate the concern expressed by the honourable gentleman, which I share but apart from the health and scientific aspect, 1 do not think I can add anything further to what my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry said, I think, on Tuesday. 
I ask for leave to correct an answer to a question that I gave earlier. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health on the activities of the Commonwealth Department of Health for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I have not the latest information on this matter, but my understanding is that after the right honourable member for Higgins raised this question the States themselves felt that it would be more desirable if information services were of a more general nature and not specifically confined to migrants. As a result, my Department has continued with the process of expanding information services to migrants undertaken through my Department, migrant organisations, the Good Neighbour Council and other bodies. During that time there has been a vast improvement in the services available. In respect of the specific question asked by the honourable gentleman, I will find out what the latest progress is on this matter and inform him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to give a separate figure for each of the categories mentioned, viz; relatives, dependants and friends. However, the total number of people included each year in nominations lodged with my Department are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present, the Government does not intend to seek authority to require such warnings to be included in advertisements in newspapers registered under the Post and Telegraph Act. 
Taking into account the way in which the Government adjusts its immigration policy, it is not correct that in all cases the arrival of migrants lessens the employment opportunities for Australians who are unemployed. As I have said in this House before, since we have had in this country a level of unemployment which is higher than the Government would desire, instructions have been issued to posts overseas that overseas workers, as opposed to family re-union cases, are to be brought to Australia only in categories for which, on the advice of the Department of Labour and National Service, there is still a demand. In these circumstances their arrival does not, as the honourable gentleman is trying to suggest, lessen employment opportunities for Australians. I will make one further point. It is substantially agreed by economists and others that, in certain circumstances, bringing migrants to Australia actually increases the employment opportunities available for Australians. But the main part of my answer to the honourable gentleman's question is contained in what I said earlier. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971, I present the annual report on migrant education for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This answer relates to institutions approved under the National Health Act as (a) hospitals and (b) nursing homes. 
Institutions which are approved as hospitals for the purposes of the National Health Act and which operate units specified as rehabilitation units for - 
geriatric patients; 
other patients; 
geriatric and other patients; are as follows: 
New South Wales- (i) and (ii) Nil; (ii) Royal South Sydney, Royal Prince Alfred, Prince Henry, Royal North Shore. 
Victoria - (i) Greenvale Village for the Aged, Mount Royal (Parkville); (ii) Hampton Hospital, Royal Talbot General Rehabilitation Hospital, Alfred Hospital, Austin Hospital, Prince Henry's Hospital, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, St Vincent's Hospital, Sacred Heart Hospital, St John of God Hospital, Ballarat, (iii) After Care Hospital, Caulfield Hospital. 
Queensland- (i) and (ii) Nil; (iii) Princess Alexandra Hospital. 
South Australia - (i) Nil; (ii) Royal Adelaide Hospital (Nursing Wards); (iii) Queen Elizabeth Hospital (Ward 1C). 
Western Australia- (i) and (ii) Nil; (iii) Royal Perth Hospital. 
Tasmania- (i) and (ii) Nil; (iii) Royal Hobart Hospital (Lady Clarke Annexe), Mercy General Hospital, North Western General HospitalSpencer Home for the Aged. 
Australian Capital Territory- (i) and (ii) Nil; (iii) Canberra Hospital. 
Northern Territory- (i), (ii) and (iii) Nil. 
Institutions which are approved as nursing homes for the purposes of the National Health Act and which operate units specified as rehabilitation units for - 
geriatric patients; 
other patients; 
geriatric and other patients; are as follows: 
New South Wales- (i) Allandale Hospital, Lidcombe State Hospital (excluding wards 4, 7, 24A. 24B. 29, 31 A, 33A, 37, 38), Bathurst Macquarie Homes, Governor Phillip Special Hospital. Lottie Stewart, Weemala, Bodington Red Cross, Queen Victoria Homes (Wentworth Falls), St Joseph's Convalescent Home (Hexham), Mount St Joseph's Home (Young), Frank Whidden Masonic Homes, Hammondville Convalescent Home, Church of England Retirement Villages, Warrina (Wyuna Wing); (ii) Beverley Park, Drummond Far West Home, Inala (Rudolph Steiner) School of Curative Education, Lorna Hodgkinson Sunshine Home, McLeod House Convalescent Home, Whitehall Private Kent Home; (iii) Lady Gowrie Red Cross Nursing Home. 
Victoria - (i) Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged, Greenvale Village for the Aged, Kingston Centre, Mount Eliza Geriatric Centre. Mount Royal. The Queen Elizabeth Home; (ii) Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind (MultiHandicapped Children's Unit); (iii) Nil. 
Queensland- (i) Lauriston Centre for Sick Aged; (ii) Queensland Bush Children's Home, Redcliffe, Sevenoaks Residential Home for Adult Spastics, North Queensland Society for Crippled Children (Cootharinga), Harold Crawford House; (iii) Nil. 
South Australia - (i) Central Mission Homes for the Aged Inc., Flora McDonald Lodge, Masonic Memorial Village, Home for Incurables, Lutheran Old Folks Home, Winchester Rehabilitation Hospital, Walkerville Nursing Home; (ii) Crippled Children's Home, Spastic Home; (iii) Northfield Wards (Royal Adelaide Hospital). 
Western Australia - (i), (ii) and (iii) Nil. 
Tasmania - (i) Nil; (ii) St Giles Home for Crippled Children; (iii) Nil. 
Australian Capital Territory- (i), (ii) and (iii) Nil. 
Northern Territory- (i), (ii) and (iii) Nil. 
(i) Numbers of hospitals which do not operate units specified as rehabilitation units: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Additional to the proposals referred to in Hansard of 19th August 1970, the Australian Dental Association has put foward only one proposal which, if implemented, would involve the expenditure of Commonwealth funds. This proposal, dated 18th July 1972, relates to the fluoridation of water supplies or, where communal water supplies do not exist, the provision of dietary fluoride supplements to children. It has not been costed by the Department of Health. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act provides for the Laboratories to produce and sell biological products of a kind used for therapeutic purposes and to undertake research in connection therewith. The laboratories produce and sell on the open market, a wide range of pharmaceutical products both for human and veterinary use, and the range of these products has been expanded from time to time as circumstances warrant. 
The Commission's difficulty in the face of rising costs and increased competition with consequent reduced profit margins is appreciated. The Government is, therefore, giving consideration to the desirability and practicability of further extending the Laboratories' activities into the associated field of non-biological products. In this connection, there are many aspects which call for detailed examination and consideration. 
Provision exists under the present legislation for Commonwealth financial assistance to be extended to the Commission to carry out its functions. Foi example, where the Commission undertakes research in accordance with a determination by the Minister, and the Commission satisfies the Minister that the operations (including the undertaking of the research) of the Commission have been carried out at a loss in a financial year, the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth, to the extent of the loss or the cost of undertaking the research, which ever is the lesser. Reimbursement has been extended to the Commission in connection with such expenditure incurred in 1966-67 ($331,000) and 1971-72 ($479,000) and provision of $647,000 is included in the Departmental estimates for 1972-73 for this purpose. 
In addition, provision also exists for the Commonwealth to make funds available to the Commission for other purposes. Since its inception in November 1961, additional capital of some $5m has been made available to the Commission by the Commonwealth to facilitate capital replacement, modernisation and expansion programmes at the Laboratories. The Departmental estimates for 1972-73 include provision for the grant of additional capital of some $2.1m to the Commission to meet planned capital expenditure in 1972-73. 
The answer to the honourable, member's question is as follows: 
Changes have been made in the maximum quantities of some preparations of specific drugs available as pharmaceutical benefits. 
Yes. 
The reductions made were in accordance with specific recommendations of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. As the honourable member may be aware the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Council is a statutory body established under the National Health Act to advise the Minister for Health on matters concerning the listing of pharmaceutical benefits. The Committee does not give reasons for its recommendations. However, the honourable member may be assured that they are made only after detailed consideration, and often after examining expert advice from relevant sources including the medical Colleges and Societies. I should like to draw the honourable member's attention to an article by the Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists, published in the 'A.M.A. Gazette' of 27th July 1972, entitled 'Discerning use of antidepressant drugs urged'. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Citizenship Act 1948-1969, I present the annual return of persons granted certificates of Australian citizenship for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
An amendment is necessary to the table shown in part (4) of the answer to question No. 4165  (Dr Klugman)  provided by the Minister for Health on 7th March 1972 (Hansard, pp. 657-8). 
The number of inpatients accommodated in public mental health institutions in South Australia at 30th June 1971 was 1,925, not 5,917 as shown in the table. Consequentially, the total number of inpatients at the listed dates was 25,323, not 29,315. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The number of cases of venereal disease reported among Aboriginals and nonAboriginals in the Northern Territory during the financial years 1960-61 to 1970-71 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I believe that, in general terms, the situation as stated by the honourable gentleman is correct. It is certainly true that it would not have been possible for Australia to develop, in terms of economic growth, per capita income and employment, without the large scale post-war immigration programme which has been directed specifically and expertly to satisfying shortages of labour and Australia's other needs. Whenever States or others have departed from that approach, the consequences stated by the honourable gentleman when he instanced Western Australia have come about. I believe that should a Labor government in Western Australia or a possible future Labor Federal government announce its intention to withdraw from the specific approach to immigration that has proved so successful over the years and to confine it purely to the whims of people already in Australia - that policy has been enunciated and was made even clearer recently by the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland - it will be disastrous for Australia. No longer would we have the process by which an expert immigration service selects the people with the skills and of the categories we require and the economic growth, advancement and development which Australia has had in the past would not be fired. 
I have seen a rather petulant statement by the honourable member for Oxley about this matter. In fact, the honourable gentleman has really been having a field day lately blaming doctors for everything. Recently in this context he accused the whole medical profession of Australia of being greedy, of holding an indecent desire to milch the taxpayers and of seeking to play the role of God amongst mortals. All I can say is: What arrogance in relation to a great and responsible profession and what a way, on the part of a person who aspires to be a Minister for Health, to approach a profession without whose co-operation no health scheme can operate! Whatever the honourable member for Oxley may say, the Government makes no apology for the increase in expenditure mentioned in the Director-General's report because it represents a deliberate decision by the Government to transfer more of the burden of the costs of health care from the patient to the Commonwealth. That is what has happened in the hospital field in relation to the decision to introduce an all inclusive hospital charge. That is what has happened in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme as a result of the Government's decision to add new and costly drugs to the list and ease the restrictions on older ones. Above all, that is what has happened in relation to the medical scheme where, as a result of the Government's decisions, the proportion of the cost borne by the patient has been reduced from 35 per cent in 1968-69 to 19 per cent in 1971-72. As I have said, the Government makes no apology whatever for this. 
If the honourable gentleman drew from my answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Ryan the conclusion that the Government accepts the Australian Labor Party's philosophy on health, he is sadly mistaken, as I suspect he knows. The Government strongly believes, as do most of the people connected with the provisions of health care in Australia- 
And the patients too; that the sort of socialistic approach which the Labor Party proposes on health and which is inherent in its scheme would be absolutely disastrous and would lead in particular to a shortage of the provision cf health services in Australia and, above all and most importantly, would lead to a substantial decline in the quality of health services provided, in the freedom of choice- 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
At this stage I would like to make one or two comments. I will make only one about the speech of the honourable member for 
Perth  (Mr Berinson).  I regard his indignation at the letter sent out by the  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia as at the very least hypocritical nonsense. The honourable gentleman is guilty of selective quoting. Admittedly he has tabled the letter, but what he omitted to say when he quoted from the letter a moment ago was that the  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia asked members of the medical profession to use their influence to oppose the Labor Party's health scheme in every possible way consistent with the ethics of their profession. If it is true that it is not consistent with the ethics of the profession to influence a patient in the consulting room, the doctors will not do it. That was covered by the  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia. 
The suggestion that members of the medical profession should not, in every way open to them, oppose the implementation of the Labor Party's health scheme is just so much hypocritical nonsense. They have a perfect right to do this. If your whole livelihood and everything you have been brought up to believe in is under threat and is about to be undermined- 
The honourable member has made his speech. He should let me finish mine. If everything that you believe is necessary for good patient care and for good medicine is about to be thrown overboard, why should you not have the right to contribute your money, your time, your effort and everything else to preventing it from happening? God forbid that we should ever come to a stage in this country where, just because the bully boys in the Labor Party with their friends in the media attempt to wield this sort of big stick, people working independently - whether they be in the medical profession or anywhere else - should not stand up for their rights and attempt to retain the way of life which they are used to and which they believe is good. I have never heard such arrogance and nonsense in my life. 
I want to refer also to the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who spoke first in this debate. I find pathetic the honourable gentleman's attempts to suggest that in some way as a result of a television debate last night the 
Australian Medical Association is now completely onside with the Labor Party's health scheme. The honourable gentleman, as I said at question time today, has been abusing and slandering the medical profession - a great and honourable profession - accusing its members of greed, accusing them of playing God and making all sorts of other offensive remarks, blanketing the whole profession and not just a few members of it. He believes that, as the result of one television interview, somehow or other the organised medical profession in Australia is now on the Labor Party's side. I have no doubt that the honourable gentleman has been under some pressure from his colleagues to attempt to achieve this result, because some of them know what damage this has done to the Labor Party. One just does not do this if one is seeking to be a responsible government in Australia. One just does not do the sort of thing the honourable member for Oxley has clone in the method in which he has dealt with the medical profession. Some of the other honourable gentleman on the other side, to do them credit, know this. I have no doubt that they have put a lot of pressure on their arrogant and youthful colleague to persuade him in some way to get the medical proefssion back onside and to attempt to get it to describe the Labor Party's socialistic scheme as respectable. No doubt that was the object of the exercise. 
The honourable member for Oxley came into the chamber today and suggested - no doubt he will give what he said to the Press, because it was all written out - that that had been achieved, that it was a big triumph, that the AMA was onside and that the doctors regarded Labor's scheme as respectable and they wanted it. I think I should read into the record a statement which the  President  of the AMA made an hour or so ago. The text of  Dr Johnson's  statement is as follows: 
The AMA has not wavered for one second in its opposition to the Labor Party's health policy which threatens the medical profession with creeping nationalisation. lt is totally wrong to interpret the remarks I made on television last night as endorsing Labor's policy in any way. 

 Mr Hayden, Labor's health spokesman, appeared on the same programme and was indulging in wishful thinking when he said I had endorsed his policy. The interview was ended before I had the opportunity to deny this. 

 Mr Hayden has made his attitude to the medical profession clear. He has stated or implied that doctors are greedy, overpaid, narrowly educated technicians deserving of less respect than other professions. 
How can 1 accept this bland assurance that he has no wish to nationalise the medical profession and cannot do so because of the Constitution?  His  own Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  has stated that it would be intolerable if a Labor government used the Constitution as an alibi to excuse failure to achieve its socialist objectives. 1 challenge  Mr Hayden  to repudiate his Leader's remarks and to repudiate the Labor Party policy stated in its official platform which calls for establishment of a salaried medical service. If he did so we might find grounds for agreement. 
The Labor Party proposes to retain fee-for-service payments for doctors' services outside hospitals. But instead of receiving payment from patients whose calls are covered by voluntary health insurance Labor proposes that doctors would receive a monthly cheque from the government. By this means a Labor government would control doctors as effectively as it would control its own public servants. 
Public wards of hospitals under a Labor scheme would be staffed by full-time and part-time salaried doctors and some 90 per cent of hospital beds would be public ward beds. This would mean the end of private practice for many specialists. 
Of course as I said on television, the AMA has no objection if a doctor voluntarily decides to give up private practice and take a salaried job. Many of our members are already salaried but we have the strongest objection to doctors being forced to take salaried jobs because their private patients have all disappeared as a result of coercive Government policies. 
I am not only concerned with doctors' rights in this matter. I am also concerned with the welfare of my patients and the patients of my colleagues. For them 1 believe Labor's Health Scheme would be a disaster. 
Unlike the honourable member for Perth I will not indulge in selective quoting. He went on to say: 
My statement last night that no political party should ask doctors to influence patients to whom they are giving treatment in their consulting rooms still stands. 
The AMA is not beholden to any political party. 
The AMA and individual doctors have a duty to speak up on matters which affect the welfare of patients. Labor's Health Scheme will seriously affect patient welfare. 
That is the end of the statement by  Dr Johnson.  I quoted that statement because of the pathetic attempt of the honourable member for Oxley to suggest that in some way as a result of this television interview last night the AMA endorsed the Labor Party's health scheme. There is the lie to that. I am not quoting it for that reason, not because the Government always endorses what the AMA does. As everybody in this House well knows, I, over 5 years as Minister for Health, had my arguments with the AMA. Nevertheless the Government recognises that the AMA is entitled to have a point of view. It is entitled to make statements and to stand up for the views of its members in the medical profession. I quoted the document for the sole purpose of rebutting this pathetic attempt by the honourable member for Oxley to suggest that in some way as a result of that television interview the AMA now endorses Labor Party policy. Although the Government and I do not always agree with what the AMA does and with AMA policy, its comments on the Labor Party's health scheme in that statement made by  Dr Johnson  represent exactly and with great precision what this Government believes, is in the interest of the best patient care and the best health system for Australia. 

 Mr BERINSON (Perth) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The crucial words in the State President's letter to doctors, which he has omitted are "consistent with the ethics of your profession", . . .' 
That is the phrase which the Minister for Immigration accused me of leaving out and so engaging in selective quoting. In response to that I want to say just 2 things. It is incredible that I should be accused of selective quoting when I was responsible yesterday for tabling this letter in full in the Parliament and enabling it to be printed in full by the media. More directly in relation to the criticism by  Sir Charles  Court I point out that when I first raised this matter in public I was reported accurately in the 'West Australian' of last Monday as saying that 'a qualification sought the maximum support that the profession's ethics allowed'. So I made that point the first time I introduced the subject of this letter. Of course, I pointed out at the same time last Monday that that qualification was superfluous. It is not meant to be taken seriously because there are in fact no circumstances in the consultation rooms when that sort of pressure could be applied ethically. 
Speaking in the House of Representatives on 8th September 1949 the then Minister for Immigration,  Mr Calwell,  said: 
So far we have relied on the scheme for nominated immigrants from the United Kingdom. However, no system of nominated immigrants  could possibly be sufficient to handle the number of new settlers we now anticipate, and a development in the near future will be the arrival of unnominated people from the United Kingdom. 
It is obvious that there must soon be a big development of the flow of unnominated British immigrants, who will have initial accommodation provided jointly by the Commonwealth and the States. The flow of such people will be most beneficial, as their freedom from prior contracts will allow us a much wider field of selection particularly of skilled tradesmen and workers of types which are needed. They will find and make opportunities in Australia. 
The events of the past quarter century, which have seen the extension of unsponsored migration to other countries - which have also become important migrant sources for us - have proved beyond serious challenge the perceptiveness of these policies enunciated by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and their value to Australia. Yet, in the face of the evidence provided by the contemporary history of this country, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  now proposes to revert to policies which, a quarter of a century ago, were demonstrably inadequate for our needs. 
The new policies of the Opposition would require, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition, that 'the Government's postwar migration promotion should now be transferred to Australian individuals and citizens.' It would rely on 'the migration of people who are nominated by friends or relatives or prospective employers in Australia'. This statement was made by the Leader of the Opposition on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio programme AM' on 21st January this year, but similar statements have been made before and since. 
What would be the effect of this policy? An analysis of settler arrivals for the 5 years ended June 1972 shows that 50 per cent of all the settlers who came to Australia during this time were either Commonwealth or State nominees; a further 12 per cent were unsponsored migrants, mainly free flow' unassisted British settlers; and only 38 per cent of all those who arrived during the 5 years were privately nominated settlers. Of these, J 7 per cent were assisted and 21 per cent unassisted. 
To abandon Government nominated migration would, therefore, have the effect of reducing settler arrivals by at least 50 per cent. Serious consequences would follow for Australia if the policies now advocated were to be introduced. Firstly, the Government would lose effective control of the immigration programme and in particular it would lose control over the composition of the programme. Secondly, the Government would be precluded from using the immigration programme to reinforce and ensure the success of policies of regional development. Thirdly, migration from northern Europe, the United States of America and Latin America would be almost totally eliminated, migration from Britain would be heavily reduced and migration from other important traditional sources would be very seriously affected. 
The Australian economy would lose a major source of skilled and other key workers. Analysis of assisted settler arrivals during the 5 years ended June 1972 shows that only 20.4 per cent of the skilled workers who came to Australia during this time were personally sponsored. Restriction of migration to a sponsorship scheme would have meant that almost 79,000 of the 98,847 skilled workers who came as assisted migrants during this period would have been lost to Australia. Only 20,165 skilled workers would have been gained instead of 98,847 who actually came. 
I want particularly to comment on the loss of effective Government control over immigration which would result from Labor policies. The Leader of the Opposition has stated that under Labor policies: 'A government would decide the total intake of migrants into Australia but as long as this total were not exceeded, the people who came in would be determined by people already here.' But this would be inadequate. Effective control of immigration requires firstly, that the composition of the migrant intake in terms of sources, skills and integration prospects is suitably balanced, and secondly, that action should be taken by the Government as and when necessary to ensure that the numbers and types of migrants coming to Australia are in harmony with our needs. 
It is as essential to see that our needs are met as it is to ensure that they are not exceeded. Moreover, the composition of the migrant intake is at least as crucial as the total numbers. In these important respects Labor's immigration policies would provide insufficient control. According to the Leader of the Opposition the Labor Party would set a numerical upper limit to immigration. The composition of the migrant flow and the numbers actually arriving here, provided that upper limits were not exceeded, would be uncontrolled. The effect of this loss of control on both European and non-European migration is, in the light of all past experience, the most serious defect of the Labor Party's policies. 
The effect of the ALP proposals would be to cut assisted migration from Britain by more than 60 per cent. Migration from such countries as Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, France, Switzerland, the United States of America and the countries of Latin America would be virtually eliminated. Migration from other important source countries would be seriously affected. These consequences are inevitable, regardless of whether sponsorship is confined to relatives or more broadly based. In the longer term the effects of this policy would become increasingly severe. The reason is that migrants who are themselves unsponsored often sponsor relatives. Abolition of government nominated migration would, therefore, result in a consequential decline in personal nominations. 
The second of the major defects in Labor's immigration policies is that the government would be precluded from using the immigration programme to reinforce and ensure the success of policies of regional development. For obvious reasons sponsored migrants, on arriving in Australia, wish to join their sponsors. They are not normally available for work in other centres. Only the migrant who has no prior personal commitment is free to move to a regional centre or developmental project which offers him suitable opportunities. With only sponsored migration the government would also be prevented from using the immigration programme as an effective instrument of population policy. In this context it is relevant to remind the Parliament that the Government has commissioned far-reaching population studies which are premised on the availabality to the Government of effective control of immigration as a means of implementing population policies. 
In summary, regardless pf whether sponsorship is confined to relatives or is more widely based the Labor Party's policies would mean that firstly the Government would lose effective control of the immigration programme. Secondly, migration from Northern Europe, the United States of America and Latin America would virtually cease. Migration from other important traditional sources would also be seriously affected. Thirdly, if sponsorship were to be confined to relatives immigration would fall drastically - so much so that we would face the very real prospect of being unable to make good our own population losses through emigration. Fourthly, if broader based sponsorships were adopted the level of immigration would still fall sharply to begin with. 
Subsequently, it would increase; principally because of the effect of new sponsorship patterns of migration, which is at present restricted and would no longer be restricted. This would be accelerated by the introduction of assisted passages for this category of immigrant, as has been foreshadowed by the Labor Party. 
One final point deserves emphasis.. It concerns the effects of Labor's .immigration policies on the Australian economy. Whichever sponsorship conditions applied Labor's policies would result in an immediate sharp check to the economy. Business, confidence, consumer spending and job opportunities would be prejudiced. Moreover, having voluntarily relinquished effective control of immigration, a government which implemented Labor's immigration policies would be largely powerless to redress the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of medical practitioners recognised as consultant physicians or specialists for the purposes of the National Health Act as at 31st August 1972 were- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The recommendations of the Nimmo Committee have been thoroughly examined by the Government and a large number have been, implemented. In 1970 the new Health Benefits Plan was introduced under which medical benefits were related to the most common fees charged by medical practitioners. Some of the more important medical benefits measures introduced in the Plan were a single medical benefits table, differential benefits for services commonly performed by both specialist and general practitioners and, where doctors charge the most common fee. significantly reduced amounts of patient contribution particularly in the case of operations and the more expensive services. 
Significant improvements were also made in the hospital benefits scheme, one of the most important of these being the introduction, in association with the rationalisation of benefits tables, of the all-inclusive fee principle. This has ensured that inpatients in public hospitals are now able to adequately insure not only for ward charges but also for extra services such as theatre services and prostheses. Some of the recommendations referred to in the honourable member's question raise matters which involve responsibilities of State Governments and cannot be determined by decisions of the Commonwealth alone. An essential element in most of these recommendations is Commonwealth/State financial relations. The measures that have been taken by the Commonwealth in the hospital benefits area have brought about the highly satisfactory voluntary health insurance scheme which the Nimmo Committee recommendations were designed to achieve. 
In general terms, therefore, further consideration of the matters raised in those recommendations referred to in the honourable member's question is not necessary except to the extent that they may become relevant at any time in the process of the Government's continuous review of the National Health Scheme. 
Charter of the United Nations: Review (Question No. 5907) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. At 31st December 1971 the relevant percentages were as follows: 
Membership of Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd as a percentage of total insured population 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The reply to question 5100 of 30th May 1972 stated that the printed inserts would be included with child endowment cheques sent out by the Department of Social Services within the next few months. This measure, which is one of a number designed to further publicise the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, was, in the main, carried out with the cheques posted on 1st and 15th August. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The net operating deficit for the A.C.T. Ambulance Service for the year ended 30th June 1972, was $216,788. 
Ambulance transport charges paid during the year ended 30th June 1972, covered approximately 14 per cent of expenditure on the Service. 
, (4) and (5) It is a well established principle that any advice provided to a Minister by his Department, and any submissions made by a Minister to the Government, are generally confidential. However, 1 should direct the honourable member's attention to a statement by a previous Minister for Health on 29th April 1971, concerning approval for planning directed to the establishment of an A.C.T. ambulance subscription scheme; and statements by the Minister on 24lh May and 4th July 1972, concerning proposals for an A.C.T. health authority. I have arranged for copies of these statements to be forwarded to the honourable member. 
Greek-born Australian Citizens: Military Service (Question No. 6394)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What has been the date, nature and outcome of representations to the Greek Government concerning the liability of Greek-born Australian citizens for military service in Greece? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Bacteriological investigations of the causal organism of the epidemic of meningitis in Central Australia have shown all are Group A Meningococci (Neisseria Meningitidis) and have not shown any which are resistant to sulphonamides. Whilst this prophylactic measure is not expected to produce  a  noticeable increase in sulphonamide resistant infections, in every country where Group A disease has been epidemic in the past decade, meningococcal strains resistant to sulphonamide have developed. 
Monitoring of cases and sample swabbing to detect carriers or change in organism sensitivity will be continued during assessment of the results  of  the campaign. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Grants totalling $6,924.99 were paid during the year 1971-72 under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 1969, on a $1 for $1 basis, in connection with expenditure by 2 States for the provision of paramedical services to aged persons in their homes. South Australia received $4,063.45 in respect of services provided from the Woodville Domiciliary Care Centre, and Tasmania received $2,861.54 in respect of services provided from the Cosgrove Park Home for the Aged and the Mersey General Hospital. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information relates to calendar year 1971: 
Assisted passage migrants accepted under bilateral schemes or arrangements with countries of emigration travel to Australia on transport provided by the Commonwealth or by the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (ICEM). Assisted migrants approved under the unilaterally administered Special Passage Assistance Programme (SPAP) can either travel on Government arranged transport or make their own travel arrangements. 
Payments made for migrants travelling on transport arranged by the Commonwealth: 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As indicated in the reply to question 5100 of 30th May 19.72, the posting of notices with child endowment chequeswas one of a number of measures designed to further publicise the Subsidised Health BenefitsPlan. It was considered that most low-income -families receiving child endowment would be contacted in this way, but the lodgment of applications is a matter for action by those families. 
It is not considered appropriate to try to assess the number of applicants influenced to apply, for subsidised health benefits in the manner suggested by the honourable member, nor has any estimate been made of the number of additional applications likely to flow from this measure specifically. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information about prices for blocks of home building land in the latest edition of the booklet 'Housing in Australia' produced by the Department of Immigration - (British edition published in May 1972, No. 39) is based on material published in the December 1971 issue of  a  quarterly bulletin prepared by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation for use by its Financial and Migrant Information Service overseas. The text was prepared in December 1971 and the booklet reminds readers in 6 places that the information (including details about prices for blocks ofland) is based on information as at December 1971. The prices given are as follows: 
The honourable gentleman has asked me whether I am aware of certain things. I am aware of none of them and I would not believe them to be true, least of all his assertion that there is an intention to. increase contributions to the funds in the near future. However, I will convey the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in another place and ask him to provide the honourable member with a detailed reply. 
The honourable gentleman referred to me as the Acting Minister for Health. I am glad to announce that my colleague has returned, so I am now representing him. I believe that the 'honour-able gentleman has performed a public service by drawing attention to the opinion of a distinguished jurist like  Mr Justice  Winneke and his comments in the Arthur Mills oration on this particular matter. He is performing a public service because members  of  the Opposition, and particularly front bench members of the Opposition, have repeatedly attempted to lure( the public into a sense of false security by claiming over and over again that the Constitution would prevent the nationalisation of health services. As  Mr. Justice  Winneke says, this just is not so. Therefore, not only have they the power to nationalise health but also I believe, on  the basis  of  the  statements they have made  and  their actual scheme itself, they also  have  the  will to  nationalise health,  and indeed  I believe that they intend  to do so. What  other interpretation can one  .-put on (he  statement by the Leader of the Opposition  in  respect to the proposal to establish on'e great bureaucratically  run  government health fund? What other interpretation can one put on his statement that this would be nationalisation in the traditional sense than that they propose to nationalise health in Australia? The proposal to limit benefits to payment at the public ward level would also have the effect of indirect nationalisation by forcing the specialists of this country to work for salaries in public wards. Their proposal to establish health clinics staffed by salaried medical practitioners would have the effect of nationalising the general practitioners of this country by forcing them to work for salaries. I could go on.  Sir. The  whole proposal reeks of nationalisation. 
I am aware that there is a consensus of medical opinion that the dietary intake of animal fats is only one of the factors which may cause the development of coronary heart disease. I am aware also that investigations in Canada and Europe have suggested that rapeseed oil with a high erucic acid content may contribute to the development of heart disease. I understand that rape growers in Australia have been urged to grow varieties with a low erucic acid content. In relation to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I can inform him that the National Health and Medical Research Council has the matter under consideration at the present time. 
I agree entirely,  Mr Speaker.  I do it only in circumstances in which I have been grievously provoked. 
Yes. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  misrepresented me by suggesting that I had no basis for the statements I made during question time. I quote a part of his lecture to the Fabian Society which he did not quote himself. He said: 
It would be intolerable if a Labor government were to use the alibi of the Constitution .to excuse failure to achieve its socialist  objectives-doubly  intolerable because it is just not true that* it need do so. 
He added: 
My basic proposition is this: If section 92 is held up as the bulwark of private enterprise, then section 96 is the charter of public enterprisesection 51 the key to national responsibility and national regeneration. 
I made a statement about general practitioners which the Leader of the Opposition disputed. I quote from the Australian Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules. It reads: 
The provision of General Practitioner Medical Services staffed by salaried medical .practitioners willing to join and available without charge and without Means Test to persons who choose to use such services. 
If that is not a charter for the nationalisation of general practitioners I do not know what is. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
A member who has spoken to a question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some  material  part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood . . . 
Quite complete and significant inquiries in depth are made in relation to the entry of all entertainers into Australia. I assure the honourable gentleman that they would not be permitted entry if a persistent background of drug, offences were known to exist prior to entry. In relation to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, there are various powers with respect to deportation. After the court cases in respect of these particular offences have been completed and when the information before the court is available to me I will have inquiries made to see what courses of action are open to the Government. 
I ask for leave to qualify briefly an answer to a question which I gave earlier. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, 
I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31st December 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the time the news item appeared 62 Ugandan Asians with 140 dependants had been selected for interview from a total of 120 applications covering approximately 400 persons. The balance were not to be interviewed because detail included in their applications indicated quite clearly that they would not be eligible for entry. The 62 applicants bad not been approved. 
and (3) As at the close of business on 6th October 1972, 71 applications covering 19S persons had  been  approved. Of this number 64 applications covering 173 persons had been approved on  the basis  of qualifications held by the principal applicant. The balance of 7 applications covering 25 persons had been approved on the  basis of family  sponsorship. Of the principal applicants approved 25 are medical graduates and 6 engineers.  No  dentists have been approved. The remainder hold qualifications of various types recognised and in demand in Australia. 
Guarantees  of  housing and employment have not  been  required. However a large percentage  of  those approved have relatives or friends in Australia ready to assist them. 
Church and secular organisations, in common with other organisations, assist migrants generally. No specific guarantees have been given but church and secular organisations have offered, and are giving, assistance. 
No. 
No. When persons make representations concerning immigration matters I provide them with information concerning those matters. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
It is estimated that the amount above the most common fees represents S per cent of the total amount of $290m. 
The revised estimate for all fees for the year 1971-72, on the basis of individual fees being at or below the most common fee level, is S275m. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The latest available information indicates that the following registered organisations are members of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Departments of Air, Army, Navy, Supply, Works, Civil Aviation, Customs and Excise, Treasury, Shipping and Transport, PostmasterGeneral's Department, The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Royal Australian Mint, the National Capital Development Commission, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
Yes. In 1967, Commonwealth Railways had discussions with the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories with a view to requesting assistance. However, Commonwealth Railways subsequently undertook investigations and tests in consultations with the State Railway systems and advised that as these were proceeding satisfactorily they did not, at that stage, require assistance from the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories. 
Aboriginal Justices of the Peace (Question No. 6319) 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have seen a newspaper report of statements attributed to a  Dr Joshua  Horn. 
The only information I have available to me on this matter is that which appeared In trie newspaper report. 
No. 
In the absence of authoritative information concerning venereal disease in the Peoples Republic of China, I am unable to comment on this question. 
I can assure the honourable gentleman that so far as it lies within my powers as Minister for Immigration to consider whether any person should remain in Australia - this of course, does not apply to an Australian citizen, as I think the honourable gentleman mentioned - the matter will be duly considered in exactly the same way as the case of  Mr Cocker  was considered, and the Government will apply the same firm attitude based on the very serious view it takes of offences of this sort. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement further the Government's continuing policy of providing planned assistance in the areas of greatest social need. It is directed to the needs of the chronically ill in nursing homes and to those people who are looking after aged chronically ill relatives in their private homes who otherwise would need to be admitted to a nursing home. The Bill implements measures contained in the Budget for the provision of further Commonwealth benefits for pensioners in nursing homes and for the provision of a new fund benefit for patients in nursing homes who contribute to a hospital benefits fund. It also introduces the new measure foreshadowed in the Budget to provide a domiciliary nursing care benefit for approved persons who provide professional nursing and other care for elderly relatives living with them. 
The development of these measures was described in some detail in a statement made in the Senate by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  on 16th August last and also in a statement which I made to this House on 29th August. There is no need therefore to traverse these areas again. Suffice it to say that the Government regards the introduction of these new measures as a milestone in the development and extension of public responsibility at the Commonwealth level, for the chronically ill, especially those whose financial circumstances are such that the cost burden of their nursing care is often equal to or even greater than their whole income, the excess being met in the main by relatives. The scheme of new nursing home benefits is based on the fact that approximately 80 per cent of patients in nursing homes throughout Australia are pensioners enrolled in the pensioner medical service, nearly 40,000 people. These patients could reasonably be expected to contribute towards their maintenance three-quarters of the sum of the single rate of pension plus supplementary social services allowances. This means that the patient's contribution would, on present rates of pension, be $18 per week, leaving $6 per week for personal needs. 
The new Commonwealth benefit and the new fund benefit payable to contributors are fixed at a level designed to bridge the gap between the nursing home fees and the sum of the patient's contribution and the present Commonwealth benefits. These benefits are $3.50 per day in respect of ordinary care nursing home patients and $6.50 per day in respect of intensive nursing care patients. It is not intended, however, that the new benefit should bridge the gap regardless of fees charged by the nursing home. To this end therefore the Bill provides 3 controls: Firstly, the scale of maximum new benefits necessary to bridge the gap I have referred to is based on a notional nursing home fee which has been fixed, after survey, to include approximately 70 per cent of all nursing home bed charges in each State; secondly, the levels of fees charged by each nursing heme are to be determined as a condition of registration and are not to be varied without prior approval; and, thirdly, fees are not to be supplemented by charges for extras' which properly should be included in the basic fee. 
The Government recognises that the new Commonwealth benefit and fund benefit will lead to pressure by many nursing homes for approval to charge fees at levels higher than those applying at 30th June last and accepts that there will be in the future genuine cost factors to support increases. The Bill therefore contains provisions allowing review of fees from time to time, and provides a right of appeal to the Minister against Departmental decisions on levels of fees. Before making his decision the Minister will receive a report from a Nursing Homes Fees Review Committee of Inquiry which is to be established in each State, lt is recognised too that the measures may tend to encourage more people to seek admission to nursing homes and this may not always be in the best social and medical interest of the patient. The Bill provides therefore for an admissions policy under which nursing home proprietors are obliged, as a condition of the approval of the nursing home, not to admit new patients without the prior approval of the Department. It is intended, however, that the primary basis of admission should continue to be the certificate as to the patient's medical condition by the patient's own doctor. The certificate will need to be supplemented by the endorsement of a medical practitioner employed in the Department of Health. Where necessary, there will be a process of consultation with the patient's own doctor. 
The Bill further provides that, in circumstances where it is not practicable to obtain prior approval for admission, approval may be given subsequently. It is intended too that a patient should be in need of a reasonable amount of nursing care to warrant admission to an approved nursing home, and experience has shown that this has most effect when supported as necessary by other professional services. In order that the measure will not also possibly have the effect of stimulating undesirable growth of nursing homes, the Bill gives the Department authority to refuse approval, for the purposes of Commonwealth and fund benefits, to new nursing homes, or to the expansion of existing homes. New nursing homes will, however, not be refused approval on these grounds if persons intending to build a new nursing home, or to acquire existing premises for conversion to a nursing home, seek and receive departmental approval in advance. The rate of development of nursing homes is, of course, primarily a State matter and the Government intends that there will be close consultation between the States and the Commonwealth at the official level on the matter of approvals of new nursing homes. 
Other conditions, for the purpose of ensuring that the needs of patients are satisfactorily provided for, may also be imposed. It is not intended that State nursing homes should be subject to the various conditions referred to. The Bill provides that the nursing homes scheme is to come into effect on a date to be proclaimed - current intentions are to proclaim 1st January 1973 - and that all current approvals of nursing homes cease to have effect as at that date but will be replaced by new approvals which shall be subjectto the conditions referred to. The new approvals will specify the number of beds and the levels of fees approved, and any other conditions attaching to the approvals. No new patients  are  to be admitted without prior approval. However, a person refused admission to a nursing home by the Department has a right of appeal to the Minister. A breach of conditions could result in revocation of approval and proprietors also have the right of appeal to the Minister in relation to the conditions applicable to the approval or in the event of revocation. A new Commonwealth benefit is payable in respect of PMS pensioners to proprietors of approved nursing homes at the following rates: 

<graphic href="081131197210243_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Where approved daily fees are less than the total of present and new Commonwealth benefits plus the patient's contribution  -$18  per week or $2.55 per day - the new Commonwealth benefit is reduced accordingly. For example, if the approved gross fee for a pensioner patient in a particular New South Wales nursing home were $74 per week for an intensive care patient then the patient would contribute $18 and the Commonwealth $56. The Commonwealth benefit comprises the present intensive care benefit of $45.50 per week and the maximum additional benefit of $10.50 per week. If, however, the gross fee were $69 per week the additional Commonwealth benefit would be $5.50 instead of $10.50 per week. 
Proprietors of nursing homes are to be required to keep such records as are necessary to ensure that the conditions of the approvals are being observed. Registered hospitals benefits organisations are to provide a nursing home fund benefit for contributors to a hospital benefit fund on a similar basis to and at the same rates as the new Commonwealth benefit for PMS pensioners. 
Patients who are not PMS pensioners at the commencement of the scheme may become contributors without being subject to the normal waiting period provided that they join a hospital benefits fund within 2 months. Claims for the new nursing home fund benefit are not to operate to allow the organisations to transfer the contributors to the special account - the debit balance of which is met annually by the Commonwealth - but such a claim may be debited to the special account if the patient has been transferred to that account for other reasons. 
Patients ceasing to be pensioners and becoming contributors to a hospital benefits fund within 2 months, shall, as is now the case with hospital benefits, be eligible for nursing home fund benefits, without being subject to the fund rules concerning a waiting period. The new nursing home fund benefits are to apply to persons eligible for benefits under the subsidised health benefits scheme, that is, unemployment and sickness beneficiaries, low-income families and migrants within 2 months of arrival in Australia. 
The provisions concerning re-approval, and the application of conditions in respect of admissions, levels of fees and development of new or enlarged nursing homes, do not apply to prescribed nursing homes conducted by or on behalf of a State, and, where a non-State home, having regard to the type of patients and their circumstances, charges less than what would be an appropriate fee for the services provided, the home may be exempted from the provisions which might otherwise reduce the amount of the new Commonwealth or fund nursing home benefit payable. 
I can assure the House that, in the administration of the admissions policy, no patient in a nursing home at the commencement of the scheme will be obliged to leave because of the criteria to be applied in respect of new admissions. Nor will any new prospective patient be refused admission without prior consultation between medical officers of the Department and the patient's own doctor. The sole criterion applying to admissions is to be the well-being of the patient. Under the law approval must be given to the admission of a patient if the patient's medical condition needs such nursing care as warrants his admission, unless, having regard to all the circumstances, the needs of the patient would be adequately and more suitably provided for in another institution and such other accommodation is available. Alternatively, if a patient who is over 65 years of age needs such nursing care as would warrant his admission to a nursing home, but it can be provided in the private home of a relative, then the relative may receive the new domiciliary nursing care benefit of $14 per week. 
It cannot be doubted that in a number of cases of the admission of elderly patients to nursing homes it would be of social and medical advantage to them if they could remain in the environment of the private home with relatives able to look after them provided the professional nursing care needed is available. In many of such cases, however, financial considerations make this impracticable and the new benefit is designed to overcome the dilemma which faces relatives of patients in these circumstances. Accordingly the Bill provides that a person may apply to be an approved person for the purposes of the domiciliary nursing care benefit, where he cares for a relative in the private home which is the residence of the applicant and the patient. 
The patient must be over the age of 65 years and, on the certificate of a doctor and nurse, must have a continuing need for nursing care, and is receiving that care. Relative' includes a husband or wife - including a bona fide de facto relationship - a parent or grandparent, brother, sister, aunt or uncle, and step and foster relationships are included. In special circumstances other persons may be approved as if such a relationship existed. Approval will be given if the criteria are met, and if the patient's medical condition is such that he could be admitted to a nursing home. The benefit may be payable in respect of 2 patients looked after by the one person. It is intended that the domiciliary nursing home scheme is to commence on 1st March 1973. 
The introduction of the new nursing homes scheme, together with the new domiciliary nursing care benefit, is a further step forward in the development of Commonwealth responsibility in the geriatrics area which will prove equally as significant as the introduction in 1962 of the original nursing home benefits scheme which provides Commonwealth benefits for patients in approved nursing homes. That benefit continues, but in addition the Commonwealth, in respect of PMS pensioners, and the registered hospital benefits organisations in respect of patients insured for hospital benefits, will bridge the gap between nursing home charges and a reasonable contribution by patients towards their accommodation. The extent, however, to which the scheme will be successful, depends on the effectiveness of the fees and admissions policies in the legislation and the degree of co-operation from the nursing home proprietors in the operation of the scheme. I have no doubt that that co-operation will be readily given. 
The cost to the Commonwealth of the new benefit for PMS pensioners in nursing homes is estimated at $9.1m for the current year and $21. 9m for a full year. The cost of the domiciliary nursing care benefit is estimated at $4m for the current year and $ 14.5m for a full year. The cost to registered hospital benefits organisations of the new nursing home fund benefit is to be met, at least for a time, from the reserves of the organisations, but at a later stage consideration will be given, when the level of hospital benefits contributions is under review, to including an clement for the payment of nursing home fund benefits. The estimated cost to the organisations for 1972-73 is $2.2m and $5.4m for a full year. 
Other matters dealt with in the Bill include: Firstly, sub-section (2.) of section 19a is amended to include the new Woden Valley Hospital in the Australian Capital Territory, part of which is expected to open early in 1973, as a public hospital for the purposes of medical benefits, and to change the name of the Canberra Community Hospital by removing the word 'Community' to accord with ACT legislation. Secondly, 5 sets of regulations promulgated since October 1971 are repealed and the provisions of those regulations incorporated in the schedules to the National Health Act. The regulations known as National Health (Variation of Benefits) (Nos. 3 to 7) Regulations provided for variations in the scope of the medical services in respect of which medical benefits are payable and variations in the rates of Commonwealth and fund medical benefits payable in respect of the scheduled medical services. The regulations are being incorporated in the Act because the Act provides that whilst the schedules may be varied by regulations such regulations cease to have effect upon the expiration of IS sitting days of the House of Representatives after the anniversary of the gazettal of the regulations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read  a third  time. 
In view of the events that have taken place I would like to take the opportunity on the third reading of this Bill to attempt to answer the questions raised by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who, as my colleague the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  has said, is perfectly entitled to ask questions about the Government's intentions. As the honourable member knows, this matter is not within my ministerial responsibility. I will convey these questions to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and ask him to reply in detail in writing. But I will have a stab at the matters raised by the honourable member for Oxley. He has referred to the fact that the admission policy will be based primarily on a certificate from the patient's own doctor. I do not believe that the construction he puts on this is justified. He has suggested that there will be no real control over admissions by the Department of Health: That is incorrect. I said in my second reading speech that one of the 2 fundamental elements in the success of this scheme is control over admissions. 
A great deal of experience has been built up by the Department ever since the intensive care benefit was introduced. There is a well developed procedure by which the patient's own medical practitioner signs a certificate which is then considered by a departmental medical officer. After that consultations take place with the patient's own doctor and then a decision is made by the departmental medical officer. It is the intention of the Department gradually, over a period of time, to ensure that a proper admissions policy is folowed. But for the reasons the honourable gentleman pointed out, there are areas in which, in the individual situation of a patient, there is no other alternative to a nursing home. This is one of the things that puts the pressure on a patient's doctor in signing the certificate with the best will in the world. 
As honourable members are aware, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has outlined proposals for increasing the amount of hostel accommodation in the community. This will grow over a period of time and it will become more and more possible to make a decision solely on the basis that the patient is in need of and requires nursing home care. I believe that the honourable member for Oxley is wrong when he says that after a 6 months' period the patient will be transferred to the special account. The advice given to me is that, although it is true with respect to a person in hospital, it is not correct in relation to a resident of a nursing home and it is not intended that it should be. The honourable member referred to the situation in Victoria. If we are adequately to protect the patients we must take account of the fees ruling at the time. This is the only way we could do it in a situation in which fees in Victoria are a good deal higher than they are anywhere else. One could give a number of explanations as to why this is so in Victoria. I will not go into that at this stage. If the reason given by the honourable gentleman is correct, that in Victoria they are charging what the market will bear, this will obviously be caught up with in the process of time in relation to applications by nursing homes in Victoria for fee increases. There will be an independent body to advise the Government whether fee increases are justified. If what the honourable gentleman says is true, obviously fee increases will not be justified in those situations. 
I cannot answer that. I will ask the Minister to do so. As I said in my second reading speech, there will be one for each State. The honourable member raised the question of standards of nursing homes. I assure him that it has been the intention of the Department of Health and the Government at every stage in which there has been an improvement in nursing home benefits by the introduction of intensive care benefits or by the other changes that have been made, to create a situation in which the quality of care provided can be improved. The honourable member may have noticed that in my second reading speech I referred to the fact that the Bill gives power to create conditions of any sort when granting approval to nursing homes. This is precisely what it is directed to - a steady practical improvement of standards wherever that is possible. 
The final point made by the honourable gentleman was in relation to supervision of the domiciliary benefit. What I had to say about supervision by the department of admissions to nursing homes applies equally - perhaps even more so - to the domiciliary benefit, because the consideration that I raised earlier in respect of admissions to nursing homes where the patient has nowhere else to go does not apply in that case. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) No. However, all medical and hospital fund contributors may attend the annual meeting to elect contributor representatives, (b) The annual meeting of medical and hospital fund contributors is advertised extensively in the daily newspapers and on printed notices available at all branches and cash payment centres. Ballot papers are provided to all contributors present at the annual meeting. I understand that the organisation proposes that when the membership books are next reprinted  a  note will be Included advising contributors that an annual meeting of contributors is held each year, (c) No. The Association concerned consists of 25 members including 4 contributor representatives elected by contributors present at the annual meeting. The 25 members of the Association elect an Executive (Governing Body) of 11, of which one member must be  a  contributor representative. Whilst the constitution provides for a minimum of one, all 4 could be on the Executive if* elected. At present there are 3 contributor representatives on the Executive. 
No. The procedure followed for the election of office bearers by the Friendly Society referred to by the honourable member ensures that contributor representatives can be elected. Contributors to the medical and/or hospital funds of this Society need not become members of the lodge or branch of the Society itself, but members of the Society are generally contributors to the Society's medical and/or hospital funds. The procedure for the election of office bearers is that members of each branch or lodge elect  a  delegate or delegates to the annual meeting and the annual meeting elects the office bearers who form the governing body of the Society. 
(a) Election to the Board of Management is restricted to financial ordinary members of the fund. The organisation's rules define an ordinary member as 'an employee of the State or Commonwealth Government Departments or SemiGovernment Instrumentalities'. Ordinary members constitute the large majority of the fund's membership, (b) Notice of the Annual General Meeting is published in  a  Perth Newspaper, (c) Ali financial ordinary  members are entitled to be nominated for election to the Board. Nominees must be proposed and seconded by financial ordinary  members  of the fund. 
In referring to Tasmania in Part (4) of the reply to Question 5023, it was advised that none of the 3 largest open funds in that State provided specifically in their constitutions for the election of contributor representatives, but nevertheless one organisation observed a practice whereby 3 directors retire each year and the vacancies are filled by election at the annual general meeting. The fuller details required for this organisation are: 
All contributing members to the fund are entitled to participate in the election of the Management Committee. 
Notice is published in each of the 3 Tasmania'n newspapers on 2 consecutive days. Notice is published at least 7 days prior to the meeting. The notice advises the place and time of the meeting and details of business to be discussed including the election of the Management Committee. 
Yes. 
The Government supports the principle of contributor representation on management boards. However, it should be borne in mind that there are practical difficulties in making arrangements for hundreds of thousands of contributors resident throughout the State to appoint their own representatives. The difficulties are mainly related to the problem of contributors in general organising representation from people who could truly claim  a  mandate from the  majority  of contributors. It is difficult to see how this could be done without extensive campaigning and balloting, and this seems unnecessary for organisations whose overall activities are ultimately supervised by the Government. In this regard, the present provisions of the National Health Act are designed to ensure effective organisation management and effective protection of contributors' rights. The honourable member will recall that the 1970 amendments to the National Health Act were specifically designed to tighten controls over the administration of health insurance funds in the interests of contributors. 
Examples of the action taken by the Commonwealth to ensure adequate protection of contributors' rights include: 
Each fund must register separately in each State and maintain separate financial records and the Government will not permit funds to continue operations under the National Health Act unless they can demonstrate efficient and economical operations; 
The funds must abide by directions given by the Minister on variations in contribution rates. (This provision enables the Government to implement its policy of requiring health insurance funds to utilise accumulated reserves by increasing benefits without increasing contribution rates to contributors); Section 76 of the Act provides that all registered medical and hospital benefits organisations shall submit details of their financial operations and membership each year. These statements form the basis of a Report to Parliament each year. 
There are also other important safeguards applied to contributors, e.g. the Registration Committee, which is constituted under Section 70 of the National Health Act, has a statutory obligation to consider and report to the Minister on proposals submitted by organisations to change rules affecting contributors' rights. The Committee reports on any matters which, in its opinion, might impose any unreasonable or inequitable conditions affecting the rights of contributors. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1970, 1 present the 11th annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June  1972 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 I do not propose to follow the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in his continued wholesale denigration of the medical profession.  It 
Seems to be the only form of attack that he has. On many occasions his only reaction to the health problems for which he has responsibility as the Opposition shadow Minister for Health has been to put up the medical profession as a bogy and to attack, in universal terms, a great and honourable profession. I do not intend to follow him down the highways and byways of his statements about medical fees. What he has to say about medical fees will be more credible, both in this place and with the public, when he gives some indication to us of what the Labor Party would propose to do about this matter. So far he has done nothing. 
I have never heard a single statement oy a member of the Labor Party directed to stating what it would do about this matter of medical fees if it became the government. All it has done is to indulge in a continued campaign of misrepresentation about what has actually happened. What the honourable gentleman had to say about observance of the common fee was exactly In this category. He knows the situation but he chose to state it differently. He knows full well, first of all, that the reason for the wide divergence in the charging of the common fee in New South Wales and other States was due to one thing only, namely, that there was a genuine dispute in the medical profession in New South wales on the appropriate fee to which the 1 5 per cent increase which was to date from 1st July should be applied. That was stated at the time. Because the Government was convinced that this was a genuine difference of opinion as to the appropriate common fee to which to apply that 1.5 per cent and that the overwhelming majority of divergencies in charges were just over the common fee and in the application of the 15 per cent to that higher amount the Government asked  Mr Justice  Mason with limited terms of reference, to inquire into this divergence of opinion.  Mr Justice  Mason found in favour of the application of the 15 per cent to the higher fee. I suggest that the position will become clear when the figures are available for the September quarter. That will not be for some time yet; the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will give the figures for the June quarter in the Senate today, as I understand it. But one would not have expected any change in the figures yet because the new fees as recommended by  Mr Justice  Mason came into being only as from 1st July. As honourable gentlemen well know it takes some months for these increases to emerge in the doctors' accounts and the payments through the funds and therefore, the recording of the situation. When the figures for the September quarter are available 1 see no reason whatsoever why we should not get from practitioners in New South Wales an observance of the common fee that is somewhere nearer the Australian average. If honourable gentlemen opposite have any reason to suggest otherwise, let us have it. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would have greater credibility if he did not deliberately misrepresent that situation. The honourable member for Oxley should not try to hoodwink the Australian public that there is something inherent in the Labor Party health scheme to provide some method of dealing with this particular problem of doctors' fees which has bedevilled every country in the world where there is a fee for service system. He could deal with it by giving from the Labor Party's platform the methods suggested, namely, to squeeze the medical practitioners in Australia into a salaried service. That is the way the Labor Party could deal with it, but it has not said that it will do that, lt has said that it will continue with a fee for service system. 
We on this side of the House take leave to doubt that this will be so, in the light of the nature of Labor's scheme as a whole and in the nature of its platform. Nevertheless, if Opposition members do not intend to introduce a totally salaried service in Australia, they have made no proposition or suggestion or put anything on the line at all as to how they will deal with this problem of doctor's fees. When they do tell us, what they have to say about this problem will have greater credibility. They should not tell us that they will deal with it on the basis of a participating doctors' scheme because that does not solve the problem either. 
It seems to me absolutely extraordinary that members of the Australian Labor Party, of all people, in view of their approach to health, should bring to this House a motion which condemns the Government. The matter of public importance is stated to be: 
The spiralling cost to the public of health services under the Government's health insurance programme. 
Why do I say that this is extraordinary? I say it because the very people and the very Party which is criticising us as a Government in those terms proposes itself to inflict on the Australian community a health scheme which will be enormously more costly, both to the taxpayer and the individual, than the scheme we have at present. Yet, Opposition members have the hide to bring down a motion in those terms. 
I shall deal with the aspects contained in the motion and produce evidence. But before talking about the Labor Party's proposals I shall deal quickly with the suggestion put forward not only by the Labor Party but also by some newspapers that in some way health costs in Australia are increasing out of all proportion to health costs elsewhere in the world. In 1960-61 in Australia the total expenditure on health services was $684m. Ten years later it was $ 1,700m. In the United Kingdom in 1959- 60 the total expenditure on health services was Stg902m. In 1967-68-8 years later - it was Stgl,741m. In the United States of America in 1959-60 the expenditure was SUS26,973m and in 1967-68 - 8 years later - it was $US56,578m. In other words, just taking those 3 comparisons, health costs in Australia are increasing at about the same rate as they have in the United Kingdom and the United States of America - that is, the total expenditure on health services, whoever it is expended by. 
Let us have no more of this nonsense that there is something inherent in our health scheme or the health situation in Australia which suggests that we are out of line with health costs elsewhere. There are very good reasons on a wide front why health costs have increased substantially in all countries in recent years; for example, increases in technology, the change in the status of nurses, the improvement in procedures in hospitals and the development of new and costly drugs - things which are common to all advanced countries that have advanced health services. These things have happened in exactly the same way in Australia. Are members of the Opposition suggesting that we should not go along with the trend to pay nurses civilised wages in Australia? Are they suggesting that we should not introduce drugs like L-dopa which has given a new lease of life to sufferers from Parkinson's disease? Would they contain costs in Australia by holding back advances in medicine? Would they reduce the quality of health services in Australia to contain costs? Almost everything inherent in Labor's scheme involves a reduction in the quality of service in Australia. Almost everything they would do is in that category. 
I have been talking about international comparisons and costs as a whole. I now turn to the scheme of the Australian Labor Party, the Party that is putting forward this motion and criticising the Government for spiralling costs of health fees. Look at Labor's proposed levy from the point of view of the individual. Labor proposes a compulsory levy on everybody including the people in Queensland who do not want it and who do not need it. The levy will be imposed on everybody in the community, not only on each family but but where there are 2 people working in a family it will be imposed on each member of the family who is working. In late 1969 the levy was 1.25 per cent. In July 1971 - 18 months later - it was 1.30 per cent. The Opposition tells us now that it will be 1.35 per cent. That is the effect of the Opposition's policy on the individual, and it is variable obviously. Whose costs are spiralling? Within the space of about 3 years Labor has jacked up its levy from 1.25 per cent to 1.30 per cent and then 1.35 per cent. This is quite apart from the other elements inherent in the Labor Party's scheme which will involve greater costs to the individual. For instance, reduced tax deductibility will make all the difference in the world. The Labor Party has said that there will be a limit of S100. This sounds fine in relation to somebody on a low income who is paying $120 at the present time. It sounds fine until you consider the effect of the removal of tax deductibility. Then the SI 00 that a person will pay under the Labor Party's scheme is comparable to a net figure of $80 being paid at the present time. It is not only the cost on the individual that has to be considered but the additional cost upon the taxpayers as a whole. Calculations which have been made very conservatively on the Labor Party's health scheme show that it will cost general revenue SI 68m more than is paid from general revenue at the present time. So under the Labor Party's scheme there would not only be additional cost to the individual but there would be increased cost to general revenue and for what? Worse treatment! People would be confined to the public ward. The implications of- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the, honourable member's question: 
Pursuant to Section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941, I present the annual report on national fitness activities for the year ended 31st December 1971. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Government has every confidence in the professional and personal capability and integrity of Professor Saint. His distinguished career indicates that his professional colleagues share this confidence. Professor Saint's career in Britain and Australia has been centred on medical teaching and research but included a 3 year term as a flying doctor in Western Australia. He is at present Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Queensland, Chairman of the Advisory Medical Council of Australia, nominee of the Universities on the National Health and Medical Research Council and a Councillor of the Royal Australian College of Physicians. The Government considers Professor Saint an eminently suitable person to be a member of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. 
At the time of the establishment of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications it was very clearly stated in this House that a cardinal feature of the Committee's operation would be its concern to maintain professional standards in Australia. The Government is satisfied that Professor Saint, as a member of the Committee, has acted at all times wilh this concern in mind. The Committee's role is an advisory one and it has no authority to impose its views or decisions on the various bodies responsible for the recognition of qualifications in Australia. In the profession of medicine the responsible authorities are the medical boards in each of the States and Territories. Information about action which the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications has been taking in regard to the medical profession is given in pages 12 and 13 of the Third Report of the Committee  -  a copy of which was sent to all members recently. 
I will send separately to the honourable member a copy of the recently published Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications booklet Medicine in Australia'. This booklet sets out the requirements for the registration of medical practitioners in the States and Territories and lists the overseas medical qualifications which are acceptable for registration without further examination. Changes in the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales and South Australia since the booklet was printed have necessitated the deletion of a number of these qualifications. These will be indicated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I understand that  Mr Kolesnik  was formerly conductor/ director of the Kiev Opera. 
The application is under consideration and enquiries concerning it are proceeding. Due weight will certainly be given to the humanitarian factors involved. 
The decision to allow a person to enter Australia is based on the individual merits of the case alone. It is unthinkable that such a decision would be influenced in the manner suggested by the honourable member. 
Child-minding Centres (Question No. 6545) 
The Minister for Health has 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The names and addresses of home nursing organisations which were established (a) before September 1956 and (b) subsequently, and which are eligible for subsidies under the Home Nursing Subsidy Scheme, are given In the schedules hereunder. 
The total number of nurses employed by each organisation as at 30th June 1972 is shown In the schedules. In the case of organisations established before September 1956, the number of nurses employed over and above the number employed at that date is also shown. The numbers of nurses given include the full-time equivalents of part-time nurses employed. 
Under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act 1956, eligible organisations receive subsidies to assist in providing home nursing services. As the legislation was enacted to encourage either the expansion of existing home nursing services or the establishment of new services, subsidies are determined on the basis of the number of nurses employed over and above the number employed in September 1956 in the case of organisations in existence at that date and, in the case of services established since that date, on the basis of all nurses employed in home nursing. In the former case annual subsidy is determined on the basis of $4,300 for each additional nurse employed and, in the latter, $2,150 for each nurse employed. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The benefits for the new group psychotherapy items 990, 992 and 994 were set on the recommendation of the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee and following consultations with the Australian Medical Association. 
In the absence of items specifically covering group psychotherapy, no detailed information was available regarding the fees most commonly charged for such services. The Committee's recommendations were accordingly based on reasonableness and relativity. 
 The Minister for Health has advised that in the reply to Question No. 5777  (Mr Hayden)  published on 21st September 1972, the headings 'Aboriginal' and Non-Aboriginal' in the table of cases of venereal disease reported among Aboriginals and non-Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, were inadvertently transposed. The table should read as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question as as follows: 
The extent to which Australia is allowed to advertise directly, for migrants overseas varies considerably from country to country. The British Government imposes no restriction on the amount or type of migration advertising; but most European countries will not allow any direct advertising for migrants. The countries in which my Department advertises directly  for migrants are  listed below in (2). 

These figures relate only to direct press and/or television advertising. They do not include costs of advertising film shows, the cost of displays or other forms of indirect advertising. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reports of comments by,  Dr Alan  McLean concerning some Asian doctors in Australia have been brought to my attention. 
Applications from Indian and Pakstani doctors to enter Australia for residence based on the possession of medical qualifications have been approved in those cases where it was established that the qualifiations were Individually acceptable for registration purposes by the appropriate State Medical Registration 'Boards as the appropriate authorities responsible for assessing such qualifications. 
It is not appropriate for me to comment on the requirements of State Medical Registration Boards. 
I have no information to support this assessment. 
and (6) Applications from students from Asian countries seeking to enter Australia to study medicine under the Private Overseas Student Programme are considered and will continue to be considered or* their individual merits having regard to facilities available in the students' own countries and the usefulness of qualifications they hope to acquire in Australia from the point ot view of recognition of and demand for such qualifiations in their home lands. In. line with these considerations students from Singapore generally are not now approved for entry to Australia to study for a basic degree in medicine. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following information has been provided by the Bureau of Census and Statistics: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
-The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. (4) (a) and (b)- 
Radio- The local commercial radio station (2WL) broadcast 2 30-second announcements each day from Monday to Friday during the initial 3 weeks of the campaign, and 2 30-second announcements each day from Monday to 
Wednesday during the fourth week. The station made a total of 36 announcements during this period. 
A taped interview with the Assistant Minister for Health,  Senator the Hon.  John E. Marriott, who was in Wollongong to launch the campaign, was played at 6.4S p.m. after the evening news on the night of 21st February 1972 by Station 2 WL. This interview lasted 5 minutes IS seconds. 
On 23rd February 1972. Station 2WL devoted its entire 70-minute 'open line' programme to the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. According to surveys commissioned by the station, this programme is heard by some 55,000 home listeners daily. This figure does not include the people in factories and elsewhere who may listen to the programme. 
ABC radio in Wollongong made reference to the initial Press release in its news bulletin on the morning of 21st February 1972. 
The campaign was also featured in 4 foreign language sessions and was discussed in detail in an interview in a women's programme on Station 2WL. 
Television - -The local commercial television station (WIN4) broadcast one 30-second announcement nightly from Monday to Friday during the inital 3 weeks of the campaign, and from Monday to Thursday during the fourth week. The station made a total of 19 announcements during this period. 
In its evening news bulletin on 20th February 1972, WIN4 made reference to the initial Press release. 
A 2-minute sound on film interview with  Senator Marriott  was included in the WIN4 evening news bulletin on 21st February 1972. The campaign and the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan in general, were featured by WIN4 in 3 successive Saturday morning migrant education programmes, and were also discussed in an interview in a women's programme on that channel. 
Press - Large advertisements (12 inch x  6  inch) appeared in the 'Illawarra Mercury' on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday during the initial 3 weeks of the campaign, and from Monday to Thursday during the fourth week. A total of 16 advertisements was published during this period. 
Similar sized advertisements appeared in each issue of the weekly newspaper 'The Express', during the campaign. A total of 4 advertisements was published during this period. 
In addition to using the initial Press release in its edition of 21st February 1972, the launching date of the campaign the 'Illawarra Mercury' devoted its entire editorial to the project. 
On 22nd February 1972, the 'Illawarra Mercury' carried a brief article and a photograph featuring the launching of the campaign by  Senator Marriott  the previous day. Both 'The Express' and the 'Illawarra Mercury' carried further articles during the currency of the campaign. 
Other Media- 59,000 leaflets and 520 posters were made available throughout the Wollongong/Port Kembla area by enlisting the support of doctors and chemists, and organisations such as health funds, bank migrant advisory services, post offices, trade unions, local, State and Commonwealth Government Authorities, migrant organisations and social welfare groups. 
The Wollongong campaign achieved significant success in terms of percentage increase in the number of applications received for Subsidised Health Benefits from persons in the area to which the campaign was directed. I also consider that it has left a permanent residue of awareness among residents of the area concerning the benefits available under the Plan, especially among persons and organisations in a position to counsel potential beneficiaries. A national round of advertising in Press and on radio was undertaken in July following the raising of income limits for families on low incomes. In addition, kits of information are now being prepared by my Department, and these will be distributed shortly to State Councils of Social Service for redistribution to social welfare agencies throughout the Commonwealth. 
The qualifying income limits were raised in June 1972. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of general practitioners in (a) Bendigo, (b) Ballarat, (c) Geelong, (d) Wodonga and (e) Portland, and the number of general practitioners who participate in the Pensioner Medical Service are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department has not received complaints from the medical profession regarding the data on cholesterol content of foods set out in Table 6 of this publication. 
No reliable data are available on the cholesterol content of some types of oil and oil products. 
My Department is currently investigating means of obtaining reliable data on the cholesterol content of foods where it is not presently available. It is current practice to indicate, by the figure 0, levels which are known to be zero. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Extracts from the letters referred to, as appearing in the letter by Canberra Consumers Incorporated published in the. Medical Journal of Australia of 19th August 1972, have been brought to my attention. 
No. The alcohol limits in wines, spirits and liqueurs were recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council in the exercise of its function of making recommendations on matters of public health legislation. Council recommended model standards- which include minimum alcohol contents. It is envisaged that such standards will be incorporated into the food legislation of the various States. - 
Commonwealth excise legislation does not establish minimum levels of alcoholic content in respect of wines, spirits or liqueurs. Excise duty is payable on wine by liquid volume, whereas on potable spirits, duty is paid only on the volume of alcohol contained in the manufactured liquor. 
No. 1 am satisfied that the Council, through its Expert Committees, has carefully considered the interests of the public in making the relevant recommendations. In examining the question of minimum alcohol levels, neither the Council nor my Department has had revenue considerations in mind. 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker.  The essence of the censure motion against the Government is that it has jeopardised Aus tralian security, firstly, through vacillation In relation to the commitment of troops to the Five Power Arrangements thereby putting at risk the whole Five Power Arrangements and, secondly, by undesirable disclosures of security information. The Minister for Defence who spoke earlier made the most pathetic attempt that I have ever heard a Minister make in my 17 years in this House to answer these charges made by the Opposition. In relation to vacillation, all he could say was that the partners to the Arrangements understood the new Australian Government's position. I am sure that is so. I am sure they do understand it. They understand it only too well. What they understand is that the present Government is vacillating, unable to make up its mind about its commitment to the Arrangements. And because they are astute politicians they also understand that the reason for that is that the present Government is not its own master. It is subject to the dictates of the left wing dominated Australian Labor Party Federal Conference. 
The only answer that the Minister for Defence would give us to the very well made and searching accusations of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  about undesirable disclosures by the Prime Minister was that everybody knew about this. He tried to tell us that it really was not secret at all. If it is true that everybody knew about it and that that was the reason for the disclosure, why did the Prime Minister behave in the way he did? Why did he not make a straight, direct statement either to this Parliament or to the whole of the Australian Press? He did not do that. I will not weary the House by going over the course of what he actually did, but he did it in a clandestine way. He made a restricted briefing unattributable to him. What an extraordinary way to go about it if, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister said, everybody knew about this. It did not matter, he said, to disclose it in the way he did. 
If this was so unexceptionable and so well known, why did the Prime Minister or the Minister for Defence - I am not sure who it was but I am reliably informed that this happened - reissue the D notice imposing a voluntary security restraint on the Australian Press and other media in relation to this matter? One of them reissued the D notice and yet the Minister for Defence said that this was unexceptionable because everybody knew about it. The other reason he gave was that 5,700 civil servants - the Minister for External Territories said it was 6,500 but I do not know how many it was - knew all about it. The only comment I can make is that it says a lot for the standard of the Australian civil service that over so many years so many people with the need to know could be briefed about this matter and there was not a hint of a disclosure. Yet the first time that the new Australian Government, and important people in it - the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence - get their sticky fingers on it we get disclosure. I think it is worth asking: Where did the disclosure come from that came to  Mr Brenchley?  It has been suggested that it came from the office of the Minister for Defence and not from a career public servant, one of those people whom in a way he has brought into question by bandying around this group of 5,700 people. Again it reinforces my point that 5,700 people knew about the matter and we had not a hint of a disclosure. Yet when this matter becomes the responsibility of members of the Labor Government and their hangers-on in their offices - and many of those hangers-on refuse to have security checks - it is disclosed straightaway. 
How many more defence secrets will be . disclosed in this way with the same sort of puerile, senseless argument used to justify their disclosure? I do not believe that the argument of the. Minister for Defence on this issue stands up. I do not believe that he believes it. I do not believe that a single member of this House believes it. I do not believe, either, that the Prime Minister wanted to disclose this information, because he knew that it was wrong to do so. He would not have taken the furtive actions which he did behind the doors or through the drafting race, as the Leader of the Opposition described it, and he would not have reissued the D notice if he had not realised that it was wrong. Of course he was forced into doing it to relieve himself of embarrassment from pressure from his own left wing and outside control. One of the principal reasons for this motion is that he did not stand up to that pressure. Any Australian Government worth its salt, when it believes that it is necessary in the national interest to withhold information, however uncomfortable pressures may be and however difficult its domestic situation and however it may effect it in the future, has a responsibility to stand up to these pressures. The Prune Minister succumbed to them and he thereby jeopardised the security of this country. This is why we are taking the step of moving this censure motion today. 
Let me go through some of the events which have led us to this serious charge which the Government has to answer, namely the subordination of the vital defence interests of the Australian nation to the claims of domestic party pressures from an ideologically motivated, unrepresentative and unelected junta. Let me take the House through the events relating to the Five Power Arrangements for which the Minister for Defence was unable to give any explanation, and to Australian forces in Singapore. The House will remember the significant achievement of the previous Government in negotiating the Five Power Arrangements and persuading the United Kingdom to reverse its previous decision to withdraw entirely from the Far East. There is no doubt that all the partners to the Arrangements believed that the ANZUK force was the only thing which gave the Arrangements meaning and credibility in terms of the stability of the region. There is no doubt that they believed that at the time it was negotiated by my colleagues, and there is no doubt that they still do. 
This is testified, to by the statements which have emanated recently from Lord Carrington, from  Mr Kirk  - the New Zealand Prime Minister - from Singapore, and more recently from Malaysia, and even from countries outside the Arrangements such as Indonesia. The House will remember - I will not enlarge on it - what might be described as Gough's goof in Indonesia. All  these messages have been .coming through loud and clear. Yet how has the Government responded? Has it learnt that we live in a dangerous, practical world, in a world where words are no substitute for actions, and where high-sounding phrases are no substitute for good friends and a reputation for reliability? Of course it has not. The people of the region understood that. I would like to quote briefly from an article .by the respected correspondent  Mr Denis  Warner in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' this morning. He said: 
The Whitlam plan for reshaping Asia with a new pact to include China and Japan, but excluding the United States and the Soviet Union, lost its last possible South East Asian supporter when Malaysia weighed in against the proposal last weekend. 
There is nothing that the South East Asian States would welcome more- than the establishment of genuine and lasting peace based on the neutrality of the area. That, indeed, is the goal to which all are working. But their ideas are long range, and take into heavy account present day realities. They do not believe that peace and neutrality can be assured within the next 2 years, and not necessarily in 10. 
That is a rather uncomfortable timetable in the light of the pressure from the Federal Conference of the Labor Party.  Mr Warner  continues: 
On the principle of not burning bridges until they are reached, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand welcome the continued presence of American air forces in Thailand - of course as a temporary measure. 
All are in favour of the Five Power Agreement under which Australia stations military forces In Singapore and Malaysia. 
No-one wants to see SEATO dissolved at this time. 
They are the practical realities, but has the present Government shown any flicker of understanding of this situation? Of course it has not. After uttering soothing words in the period prior to the election about the importance it attached to the Five Power Arrangements and playing down those provisions in the ALP platform which required it to bring the troops back to Australia, it was confronted with the imminent visit of Lord Carrington. He would want to know where the Government stood Apparently without consulting any of their colleagues the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence decided, no doubt after taking advice from the Departments of Defence and Foreign Affairs, that it was in the defence interests of Australia to leave the logistics support force in Singapore. In the light of subsequent events I want to emphasise that this was a decision taken on defence grounds and in the best interests of the security of the nation. It was a correct and proper decision which we supported, although we did not believe there was any justification for bringing the combat troops home. 
If the Government was to take this craven action and pander to its left wing by bringing the combat troops home, the next best thing it could do was to attempt to preserve the Five Power Arrangements by leaving the logistics forces in Singapore. This was the decision to which the Government came. It was duly and publicly announced. I pledged on behalf of the Opposition in a statement at the time that we would support the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence in the fight that the Prime Minister obviously had on his hands against his left wing colleagues both in the Parliament and in the Party outside. I reiterate that. It apparently satisfied Lord Carrington, although no doubt he had his own views of the craven decision of the Australian Government to shelter behind the combat troops of the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Malaysia and Singapore and to withdraw our troops. 
The Minister for Defence let it be known that, in acordance with this decision, 900 men would be left in Singapore. Pressure started from the left wing and the Prime Minister at a Press conference reduced that to 500 or 600 men, including, as I understand it, the Royal Australian Air Force personnel in Singapore. Pressure was applied still further when the resolution of the Victorian Council of the Australian Labor Party was given a great deal of prominence and publicity by  Mr Hartley  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  jumped on the bandwagon. At this point, defence considerations and the security of the country, which had been rapidly diminishing in importance anyway in the minds of members of the Government in their approach to this question, completely disappeared. 
Then followed the matter to which I referred earlier; It was the most incredible, extraordinary, irresponsible and unworthy action ever taken by a Prime Minister of Australia. I refer to the incident in which the Prime Minister deliberately leaked defence secrets to the Press of this country, not because it was in the interests' of Australia - as I said earlier, I believe that he knew it was not - but in the hope of creating a situation which would ease the pressure from his own left wing. In the view of the Opposition, the Prime Minister has demonstrated by this act alone his unfitness for the high office that he holds. In one stroke he has branded his Government as one which cannot be trusted to keep information secure and as an untrustworthy and unreliable ally. 
The next step in this extraordinary saga was that the Prime Minister announced that the signals unit would be withdrawn. I ask the House to note this and note it well, particularly in regard to what the  Deputy  Prime Minister had to say that the Government would ultimately bow to the dictates of the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. A decision made by the Government, announced after due consideration, and after taking advice from the Department of Defence can, and probably will, be reversed by a beer swilling, floral shirted bunch of new leftists in some sleezy Surfers Paradise pub- 
A mob of yahoos- 
 I wish to speak only briefly on this statement. The Opposition congratulates the Government for moving so promptly to get the fingers of new Ministers out of the toffee barrel. I also wish to make it clear that the Opposition, unlike the Government when it was in opposition, has no intention whatsoever of attempting to make political capital out of responsible and justified use of VIP aircraft. As one who has suffered in relation to this I feel quite strongly about it. The Government should have no fear that the Opposition is not aware of the absolute necessity in many circumstances for Ministers to use VIP aircraft to enable the proper performance of their duties. I wish to mention 2 other things briefly. The Minister said: 
The rules which 1 have tabled amplify the previous rules in 2 respects. First, lt is made clear that a request is not to be made to an approving authority for VIP aircraft travel if alternative forms of transport arc available. 
I would like to draw to the attention of the House the fact that that is an amplification of a rule which existed and which was rigorously followed while the Opposition was the Government. I think it wise, on the early indication of the way in which members of the present Government might use VIP aircraft, for the Minister to amplify the rules in their case, but it was always a rule inflexibly administered in our time in government that a VIP aircraft would not be made available if, to quote the Minister's statement, 'alternative forms of transport are available'. 
It  surprises me to  find on reading the rules that the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are listed among the people entitled to the use of VIP aircraft but that the Leader of the Australian Country Party is not listed. It seems to me to be quite inconsistent that both the House and the Government should have accorded the status they have to the Leader of the Country Party - a status which obviously springs from his being the leader of a party with 20 members in this House - and at the same time not have included him amongst these people. I understand that consideration is being given to this matter. I hope that the Government will see fit to amend the rules to include the Leader of the Country Party. 

 Mr BARNARD (Bass - Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply) - by leave - The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  raised a point in relation to the Leader of the Australian Country Party. This matter has been under consideration. I believe that one should not overlook the responsibilities, the requirements and probably the intentions of the leader of the third major party in this Parliament. All I want to say at this stage is that the matter is under consideration, lt is being dealt with by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I know that it will be considered sympathetically. In the circumstances it was not possible for the Leader of the Country Party to be included in the schedule until the Prime Minister had made his decision. 
I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and recognising that the paper acknowledges: 
that the installations in central Australia are not part of a weapons system and are not able to be used to attack any country and that the United States naval communications installation at North West Cape is used for the purpose of defence communication; 
that the Australian national interest and independence are not jeopardised by the continuance of the agreements under which the installations remain in Australia, and 
that it is necessary to preserve secrecy with respect to certain aspects of these installations, the House welcomes and approves the Government's clear declaration that it has no intention to repudiate the treaties under which the installations were established'. 
The Opposition had thought, based on statements made by honourable gentlemen opposite when they were in opposition and from a reading of the Australian Labor Party platform, that we would have a real battle on our hands to protect the national interest in this matter against prejudicial disclosures and even repudiation of treaty obligations. We now find that no such disclosures or repudiations have been made and that in all significant respects the stand taken by the present Government is the same as that taken by the previous Government. As the amendments suggest, we welcome and approve the Government's clear declaration to this effect. 
Of course, the statement does contain sections designed to appeal to the ideological attitudes and conventional wisdom of various groups in the Australian Labor Party, both inside and outside the Parliament. But, as has been widely recognised in the public debate that has ensued since the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  made his statement - I am sorry that he is not here tonight - this statement is the shadow and not the substance. These sections are window dressing, designed to give the appearance that the new Government had lived up to the expectations it had aroused by its own statements in Opposition and, hopefully, to head off those who had been asking awkward questions about conforming with the Party platform. I give as just one example of this window dressing the brave words about the United States communication station at North West Cape contained in the statement. The Minister for Defence said: 
We must, however, insist on seeking renegotiation of certain treaties where this is necessary to obviate the complete exclusion of Australia from any effective control over  a  defence installation on Australian soil or to obviate any possibility that Australia could be involved in war - and a nuclear war at that - without itself having any power of decision. 
He went on to say: 
I shall be speaking later about the problems of this kind in relation to the United States naval communication station at North West Cape. 
These are strong, determined, nationalistic words indeed - enough to make any red blooded Australian stand at attention with national pride. 
But what do we find when we come to that part of the statement which purports to translate this aspiration into reality? Some time this year, the Minister for Defence will travel to the United States to have discussions with the United States Secretary of Defense and his advisers. Parenthetically I hope that he enjoys the trip. The Minister for Defence went on to say that the United States is prepared to make the North West Cape installation a joint installation. We are told from other sources that a message from the United States authorities arrived just in time to save the Minister for Defence from acute embarrassment in his own Caucus or Cabinet, or both. What does the expression 'joint installation' mean? Does it mean joint control? The Minister has not told us. Perhaps he does not know. But in any case, he went on to say: 
We will, of course, be examining whether this would be desirable. 
He was referring to the creation of a joint installation. I leave the House to speculate as to why, after such a red blooded demand for joint control, the Minister should render the whole exercise meaningless by casting doubt on its desirability. Perhaps the Government has suddenly realised that joint control would be inconsistent with Article 2 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty? I doubt it but, nevertheless, that is a possible explanation. I doubt it because the Government had such as emotional drive to ratify that treaty as soon as it came into office that I question whether many honourable members opposite had even read it. 
Perhaps the Government has realised that joint control in an installation of this nature is both dangerous and meaningless. This was well demonstrated by the then Government when this matter was extensively debated in this House in 1963. I have been rereading that debate. I made a speech in that debate and, even though I say it myself, it was not a bad speech. I gave consideration to quoting from that speech to support the point that I am now making but, regretfully, I have come to the conclusion that honourable gentlemen opposite would not attribute to it the objectivity it undoubtedly had. So I will content myself by quoting briefly from  Mr Toohey  who, until recently, was the private secretary, loyal servant and confidant of the Minister for Defence. Writing in this week's 'Australian Financial Review',  Mr Toohey  had this to say: 
What really emerges, however, is that any meaningful control over the station is impossible. 
Apart from the obvious point that the US is hardly likely to accept  a situation  in which Australia could snatch its finger from the nuclear trigger in a time of crisis, there are severe practical problems in exercising control. 
The time for decision making in a crisis situation is likely to be so small that the Australian Prime Minister could not be contacted in time to say 'yes' or 'no'. 
And what happens if he does say 'no' and the US President simply ignores him? 
Without wishing to put too finer point upon it, a stiff note of protest to the US after a nuclear war is not likely to have much impact. 
That statement was by  Mr Toohey  who, as I mentioned, until recently was a confidant and secretary to the present Minister for Defence who made this statement on the United States defence installations in Australia. I do not wish to pursue the question of North West Cape any further. 1 have discussed it at some length for no other purpose than to provide an example of my contention that those parts of the statement which purport to convey the impression that the Government has made significant changes from the situation which existed under the previous Government are mere window dressing. 
I said earlier that repeated statements by Australian Labor Party spokesmen while they were in opposition had aroused expectations and. indeed, fears that there would be radical changes, disclosures and repudiation of agreements when they came into office. These statements, as the House well knows, were overwhelmingly directed at the Pine Gap and Woomera installations. As an example, I should like to quote from a statement made by the present Minister for Defence on 1st September 1971. He referred to the Pine Gap station near Alice Springs as 'a nuclear link in United States nuclear warfare, systems'. He said: 
It ls shameful that all information about the function and operation of American bases in Australia has to be ferreted out of American technical journals and scientific books . . . The Australian Govern ment has always refused to disclose information on which a rational debate on the Austraiian role in  a  nuclear war could be based. Obviously the Pine Gap base is a prime nuclear target, a fact that has been repeatedly denied by the Government. 
He went on to state: 
If these bases were knocked out the United States warning and retaliatory system would be jeopardised. In these circumstances an all-out effort would certainly be made to destroy these  2  bases before  a  major attack was launched against continental United States. 
These are the sorts of life and death issues, thundered the former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, now Minister for Defence, which Government secrecy has kept from the electorate. Surely, he went on, the Australian people have the ultimate right to decide whether they should accept or reject the risks of integration into American nuclear strategy in this way. This is pretty strong stuff - a clear implication, I am sure the House will agree, that we, the then Government, had told the Opposition nothing and that the Opposition when it got into Government would tell everything. To put this to a test let me compare a statement made in this House by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  when Minister for Defence on 1 4th December 1971 about Pine Gap with the present Minister's statement last week. In his statement the honourable member for Farrer had this to say: 
Premature disclosure of classified information could only be prejudicial to Australia's defence interests. 
In the Minister's statement before the House he said: 
. there is no doubt in our minds that details and the techniques employed, and of the data being analysed and tested in the stations, must be kept highly secret if the 2 installations are to continue to serve their objective. 
The previous Minister for Defence had this to say: 
Federal and Northern Territory members of Parliament may enter with prior permission but certain areas are restricted to those with a need to know. 
The Minister for Defence said in his statement: 
At the same time I wish to announce that the Government has decided that members of this Parliament must have a special right of access to the 2 installations . . . 
The honourable member for Farrer, the previous Minister for Defence, had this to say:  1 must stress that the facility is entirely defensive and it cannot initiate offence. 
The Minister for Defence in his statement that we are debating tonight said: 
I  state clearly that neither station is part of a weapons system and that neither station can be used to attack any country. 
The honourable member for Farrer stated: 
Members of the Government with a need to know are fully conversant with the activities of the facility. Some Australian officers with the need to know have full access to all areas of the facility. 
The Minister for Defence had this to say: 
. we have access to the installations so that we know what is being done there. 
I could go on in this way quoting bit by bit from the statement of the Minister for Defence and what had been said, in one instance, by the Minister for Defence in the previous Government and what had been stated also by other Ministers for Defence before, but I think I have said enough to make the point that it was sheer hypocrisy to suggest while in Opposition that in some way, when the Opposition became the Government, it would make revelations which we were not prepared to make. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and Minister for the Army. He will be pleased to hear that it has nothing to do with his credibility or with the confidence we may have in him. Did he say, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Paterson last Wednesday, that the Government whilst in Opposition had expressed the view that the appropriate strength of the Australian Regular Army was 31,000? Did he also say that an interdepartmental inquiry is currently being conducted into the appropriate level of personnel in the Army in years ahead? So that there can be no breath of suspicion that tha Government has prejudged this important matter about the future strength of the Army to, vindicate its decision to abolish the national service scheme, will the Minister make public the advice he receives from the interdepartmental inquiry? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I was most interested to hear the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  say that he agreed substantially with the submissions of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I thought that the honourable member for New England made a very good and very penetrating speech. The essence of what the honourable member for New England said - I share his view - was that the removal of the wine excise was a shallow political trick by the Australian Labor Party and that that Party had ignored completely the really important and fundamental problems of the industry. The honourable member for Hunter said that he agreed substantially with those submissions. I do not know whether he understood what the honourable member for New England said, but I think it is good to have it on record that he agreed substantially with those submissions. I certainly agree with them. I do not oppose the legislation; indeed, I support it. 
I take this opportunity- one of the first I have had, I might say - to refer to the Australian Labor Party's approach to this general matter because over a number of years now I have had to sit in silence and listen to the sheer hypocrisy uttered by honourable gentlemen opposite on this matter. Their approach to it is typical of their approach to any matter affecting the well-being of an Australian rural industry. If political capital cannot be gained out of it, they are not interested. Because of the understandable reaction of the  industry to the  imposition of the excise, members of the Labor Party saw the whole problem, from the beginning to this moment, purely in terms of votes. That point was made by my friend, the honourable member for New England. I cannot remember members of the Labor Party ever exhibiting the slightest interest in or knowledge of the industry during any of the debates which took place in the previous Parliament. The wellbeing of the industry was the last thing that ever entered their heads. What analysis of the problems of the industry did they make before committing themselves to the removal of the excise? I submit none whatsoever. Not a single glimmer appears in the second reading speech of an indication that here is an industry with problems. I hold in my hand a copy of the second reading speech. I have never in my time in this Parliament read a second reading speech with such a disgraceful paucity of detail and with no recognition that here is a great and important industry in relation to which any government should have framed constructive policies and announced them to the House. But instead of this the Government gave us a speech of about 10 lines doing nothing more than announcing its intention to remove the excise. 
If the second reading speech and the blatant political tactics of the Australian Labor Party in Opposition are not enough to drive home the point that I am making, let me instance the activities of the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  in the period prior to the last Federal election. Let me instance what this gentleman - I will not call him honourable - did. Incidentally, my friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has done more for the benefit of this industry than the whole of the honourable gentleman on the other side put together. The Premier of South Australia engaged in the most blatant act of political bribery that I have ever encountered. He wrote to the wineries and grape growers in South Australia and others connected with the industry, saying, in effect: 'You contribute to the Labor Party's funds and we will use our influence to get the excise removed'. These are the precise terms of his letter. 
He said 'If you don't believe me' - and he had some grounds for feeling that these people would not believe it- 
He said: If you don't believe me send a cheque for Labor Party funds payable if the policy speech delivers the goods, if the undertaking to remove the wine excise is in the policy speech'. I am delighted to find that some of the honourable gentlemen opposite, including new members of this House, have decent enough basic instincts to indicate by their interjections that they do not believe what I have just said. By implication the indication that they do not believe it is an indication that they disapprove of these sorts of tactics as much as I do. 
I have not got the letter with me but I would be glad to put into the honourable gentleman's hands a copy of it. The honourable member for Angas has actually published it, so it is on public record. I can assure the Government that these contemptible tactics by the Premier of South Australia left a very sour taste in the mouths of most of the people in the wine industry whom I have encountered, and of course they were completely counter productive from their point of view. There are 3 wine growing areas in South Australia, the principal one being in the electorate of Angas and the others being in the electorate of Wakefield and the electorate represented by myself. All the members representing these electorates are back in this Parliament, having retained our majorities, if not increased them. 
Yes, but you do not grow wine. By contrast to this sort of approach to the wine industry, the approach of the Liberal and Country Parties while in office was different. When the industry indicated that imposition of the excise was causing problems the Government responded, as the honourable member for New England said, by setting up the Grant inquiry. It did this because advice available to us indicated that many of the difficulties facing the industry sprang from causes other than the excise, and the Grant Committee confirmed this view, as anybody who has read the report knows. It indicated that rate of plantings, vertical integration and problems of overseas marketing, to mention only a few, all of which were dealt with in some detail by the honourable member for New England tonight, were affecting various sectors of the industry and that all of this had created real difficulties. When the former Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for New England, announced the halving of the excise he announced also a series of constructive inquiries and endeavours designed to meet the industry's problems. Some of these foreshadowed expenditure probably a great deal in excess of that foregone in excise. The point I make is that these problems remain. They still overshadow the prosperity of the industry to a much greater extent than the excise ever did. What is the Government going to do about it? If it is to do anything, it has not said anything about it. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is sitting at the table looking as if he will give forth. Perhaps he will tell us. Perhaps he will give us the wine equivalent of the $500m at 3 per cent. Will he give us tonight the wine equivalent of the $500m at 3 per cent? This was officially denied by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in question time the other day. 
Those of us on this side of the House who represent wine producing electorates - the honourable member for Angas, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and others - will be doing everything in our power to force the Government to go beyond the politically motivated froth and bubble of the excise as contained in the second reading speech to this Bill and get down to the hard yakka of the really important problems of the industry. Let it tell us what it is going to do. I would like to conclude by saying something about the completely unjustified attacks on the industry by the Attorney-General in another place,  Senator Murphy,  in accusing the industry of not passing on excise reductions, and about the deliberate and malicious attempt by him and other people to relate general price increases based on cost pressures to the actions of the Government in reducing excise. It is typical of the Australian Labor Party and it was typical of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  to poke the finger of scorn tonight at the wine industry and say: They are not behaving like good boys and they are not grateful for all we have done for them in removing the excise'. This is typical of the attitude of the Labor Party. But it encourages and promotes all sorts of actions affecting the economy as a whole, such as unlimited wage increases, the 35hour week, 4 weeks annual leave and many others. 
Yes, revaluation, which produces enormous cost pressures on the industry. Then honourable members opposite turn around, on the grounds that they have made a paltry gesture in relation to the excise, and berate the industry because it is forced to increase its prices. 
I want to put the record straight about what has been the situation in the wine industry. I quote the manager of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers' Council.  Mr G.  M. Nettelbeck who said on 4th March: 
The whole of the Australian wine industry is now paying$3. 1m a year more in wages than in 1970, $2.9m more for grapes, and $2.lm more for bottle! a total of $8.lm. 

 Mr Nettelbeck said: 
Wage rates in the industry since 1970 had risen by from 24 per cent to 37 per cent. 
In his statement, he also made the point that all makers had reduced prices when the excise was halved and again when it was wiped out. But. in relation to cost increases of that order, gestures promoted by the Government of the Order contained in this Bill are tiny. How can the industry be expected to hold its prices indefinitely in some cases, for almost as long as the period since members of this Parliament have bad a salary increase? They cannot be expected to do it indefinitely. 
To drive this point home, rather than making a general statement about the wine industry as a whole, I should like to quote to the House a letter I received from an independent wine grower in my electorate. I will not mention the name of the company which, although it is small, is a household name in Australia for the quality of its wines. In writing to me the managing director of the winery said: 
In our own case, except for one or two lines, our main sellers have remained at $8.60 per dozen (plus duty when applicable) to distributors for reds and 87.70 for whites since 1968. 
He goes on to say: 
Since 1968 the standard wage for a cellarhand and a vineyard worker has risen from $41 to $59.80 (or 46 per cent) and we are faced with further increases in the national wage this month and again in our industry at the end of June. Bottles and cartons have risen approximately 20 per cent in the last 3 years. 
Yet people in this Government the Attorney General, to mention one have had the hide to criticise the wine industry. The honourable member for Hunter tonight had the hide to criticise the wine industry and to accuse it of ingratitude when, in an environment of cost increases of that magnitude, the industry increased its prices, despite the fact that the present Government had made this gesture in relation to the removal of the excise. 
This sort of criticism is almost as irrelevant and as damaging as the action of the Premier of South Australia the other day when, wanting to make a headline in the atmosphere of an impending State election, he said: 'My Government will legislate to stop the small wineries in this State being taken over'. Just let me analyse that statement. The wineries about which  Mr Dunstan  was speaking are all privately owned. They can be taken over only by the voluntary action of the people concerned. 
They will be pushed out by the actions of the honourable member's Government and the actions of  Mr Dunstan's  Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armifage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Did the Minister for Defence say in a speech to the National Press Club on 15th March that decisions about the future structure of our armed forces and the kind of equipment which they need must be made in the light of our new national goals? Can he inform the House what new national goals he has in mind? 
This Bill was introduced by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in the most partisan, biased and nakedly party political second reading speech that I have heard in my 17 years in this Parliament. As the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  remarked when he spoke earlier in this debate, that speech was an extraordinary departure from the proprieties and conventions which have controlled the content of second reading speeches since this Parliament was formed at federation. The Minister for Services and Property should take a lesson from his colleague who has just sat down after introducing a Bill on the Cities Commission, I refer to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who did stick to the conventions on this matter. 
I think we need to ask ourselves why the Minister for Services and Property departed from the conventions and produced this nakedly political speech. The answer surely is that what he was engaged in, what the Government is engaged in and what his colleagues who have spoken in this debate have been engaged in, was a propaganda exercise to persuade people that there is something inequitable about the Australian electoral system. I believe they are doing this in the belief that if they mutter slogans like 'one vote one value' at the same time as they talk about the 20 per cent margin and draw attention to the fact that the Electoral Commissioners are required to have some regard to problems of area and distance, a sense of injustice will be created in the minds of the public. They believe that by referring in emotive terms to constituent parts, such as the 20 per cent margin allowed and other criteria which the Electoral Commissioners are required to take into account in a redistribution, attention will be diverted from the final results which the present system produces, which I say without fear of contradition is electoral justice. 
The purpose of honourable gentlemen opposite is to divert attention from the fact that the Australian electoral system, which is embodied at present in the Commonwealth Electoral Act and which has remained substantially unchanged since federation, produces one of the most electorally just systems in the world. This is an undisputed fact, ft has not been controverted, so far as I am aware, by any honourable gentleman opposite, lt is an undisputed fact, by whatever factual criteria are used to measure it. In this debate we have pointed to a number of criteria, such as the overall result of the present electoral system, which is a majority of seats for the party which receives the majority of votes. Time and time again honourable members from this side of the House have said in this debate that since 1949 there has been only one election, that of 1954, in which the party which has achieved an overall majority of votes has not received an overall majority of seats. The 1954 election was undertaken under an Act and under a redistribution conceived by the last Labor Government. 
We can point to the substantial equality between metropolitan and extra metropolitan divisions in each State. In New South Wales, for instance, if a metropolitan vote is worth one then an extra metropolitan vote is worth 1.04 if we exclude the electorate of Darling, and 1.06 if we include Darling. We can point to the practice of using the 20 per cent margin where appropriate to achieve substantial equality in voters between divisions at mid term. We can point to the margin from the quota employed in actual fact and compare that with the situation in most other countries. As far as I am aware there is not a single country which gets nearer to the basic concept of equality between divisions, with the single exception of New Zealand. Look at New Zealand - a pocket handkerchief country which is smaller in size than Victoria. What an extraordinary proposition it is to compare New Zealand with the vast area which is Australia. 
The point 1 am making is that when the Australian Labor Party got the votes under the existing system in 1972 it got the numbers. What it now wants to do is to so arrange things that it gets the numbers when it does not get the votes. This objective is the very travesty of electoral justice. It is the reason for the Labor Party's hymn of hate against the rural voter. Every single member on the other side of the House who has spoken in this debate, from the Minister for Services and property  (Mr Daly)  down, has engaged in this hymn of hate against the rural voter of Australia. They are doing this in an attempt to arouse a sense of injustice amongst metropolitan voters. They are trying to brainwash us into believing that there is electoral injustice and that this is caused by some sort of preferential treatment which is being given to country voters that in some way reduces the value of the vote of the metropolitan elector and the weight that he has in determining the government of the country. 
I think that I and my colleagues on this side of the House have proved conclusively that this sort of propaganda and these statements are arrant, mischievous, self-interested nonsense and can be based only on a desire to replace a system which produces broad electoral justice with a blatant gerrymander. Within that context let me say something about the provisions in section 19 of the Act which require the Distribution Commissioners to have some regard to area, distance and sparseness of population and which this Bill proposes to remove. It seems absolutely incredible to me that in a country the size of Australia with vast distances, with threequarters of the population crowded into a handful of cities and with only 124 seats in the Parliament it should ever be contested that some regard should be given to these factors of distance, area and sparseness of population. People in any other country would consider that we had taken leave of our senses, lost our sense of perspective and lost all sense of reality if in our circumstances we asserted that to pay some limited regard to these factors was in some way perpetrating an intolerable outrage on the democratic rights of the vast majority of the population who live cheek by jowl in a handful of metropolitan cities. 
Let me put the situation into perspective. Members representing metropolitan seats are in an overwhelming majority of this Parliament. Let us get that fact clearly into our head because when we listen to the Minister for Services and Property and others we could be forgiven for believing that the city majority of voters was heavily outnumbered in the Parliament. It is this overwhelming majority representation of the city - growing larger and larger all the time as the rural population contracts - that bulks large in the consciousness of country people. This situation has created fears - justified or unjustified, but nevertheless very real indeed - that the identity, problems and interests of country people will be totally swamped and submerged by the sheer weight of numbers in this Parliament and that their disabilities, disadvantages and requirements generally will not be weighed on their merits by a national Parliament properly exercising national responsibilities but obliterated by the preponderance of numbers. Let me give the House an example of what I mean. 
Last week the Parliament had before it a salaries Bill. For many years the arrangement of salaries has led to a recognition that it costs considerably more for a member who represents a country electorate to do the work of looking after his constituents than it costs a person who represents a city electorate. That has in practice and tradition been reflected in the electorate allowance paid to members of Parliament. But, without explanation, without a single word of justification, the Labor Party Caucus and the Labor Party majority - the city dominated majority - just changed the arrangement to equality, to bring the electorate allowance paid to a city member up to that paid to a country member. This is the sort of thing I am talking about. This is the exercise of power by the sheer weight of numbers; it is not an exercise of responsibility. The Government has not given a rational explanation of what is happening. It has just used the sheer weight of numbers. 
This is the sort of attitude of which country people are afraid. That is an example of what I mean. 
This attitude has been developing as the inexorable march of population movement has run its course. The stage has not yet perhaps been reached where it has produced a sense of alienation that is associated with some other overridden minorities around the world, and I pray God that it will never reach that stage. But it would be a powerful step towards such a position if this Bill were to become law. Who can blame country people for feeling that they are aliens in their own land, a suppressed minority, when they listened to the loud mouth assertions of the Minister for Services and Property, the high priest of the city majority, that they, the country people, do not matter, that their problems are no greater than the problems of those living in cities, that country members of Parliament have no greater difficulties in providing adequate representation of their electorates than those in the city, and that the difficulties of distance, isolation and lack of services and amenities are irrelevant? All this is in circumstances in which, as I have said already, the city majority has the numbers to enforce the interests of city people. 
We in this House know the motive of the Australian Labor Party in introducing this Bill, ft is to introduce a blatant gerrymander which will keep it in office indefinitely. We know not only its motives but its tactics - to use country people as whipping boys to arouse emotions which will synthetically create a sense of injustice. We know what the Government is up to, but do the country people, who are the pawns in this Labor game? It is a dangerous game with very real risks of irreconcilable alienation of a significant minority of the Australian people. The Liberal Party will have none of this divisive process and opposes the Bill root and branch. 1 profoundly believe that in a nation like Australia country people, with all their problems of isolation, loneliness, lack of amenities and so on, with the contribution that they make out of all proportion to their numbers, deserve some consideration. This legislation would wipe out any vestige whatsoever of such consideration. 
asked  the  Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did he announce on Monday, 5th March 1973, that there would be increases of up to 40 per cent in the cost of contributions to several medical benefit funds in Victoria. 
Did he also say that this was necessary because the previous Government had instructed the funds to absorb cost increases by running down reserves. 
If so, was this process of running down reserves to avoid extra cost to contributors going on at the time that he was being extremely critical of the previous Government for maintaining the reserves of the funds at too high a level. 
In view of the apparent contradiction in his attitude before and after taking office, what is the attitude of the Government in relation to the reserves of these funds. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and is supplementary to the question asked earlier by the honourable member for Adelaide. Does the Minister's reply to the honourable member for Adelaide really mean that he has no knowledge of the recommendation of the Defence Force Development Committee when it is an open secret, even to me, that that Committee recommended an Army of 38,000 personnel? 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Why was the Australian Council of Trade Unions the only organisation with an interest in the work of the National Commission on Social Welfare given the right to nominate a representative. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Did he, in a statement on Monday, 5th March, 1973, describe the action of the previous Government in increasing Commonwealth benefits to avoid additional contributions to contributors to the Medical Insurance Scheme as a device. 
If so, is it the attitude of the Government that the patient should bear the full cost of increased medical fees. 
Can he say whether medical and hospital costs have been escalating rapidly for many years in virtually every country in the world and most experts expect that they will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. 
If so, is it the intention of the Government in the proposed compulsory health scheme to constantly increase the percentage of taxable income required as a compulsory contribution rather than increase contributions from general revenue. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Does his answer to a question last week mean that in future private overseas students will be able to stay in Australia if employment is available? If the answer is in the affirmative, how in these circumstances does he justify these students occupying scarce places in Australian universities at the expense of Australians? If the answer is in the negative, can he state the present rules on this matter and how they differ from those of the previous Government? 
-I compliment the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  on the speech he made on this Bill. I disagreed with almost everything he said, but it was a well thought out, intelligent and obviously sincere contribution. For my own part, I find this Bill thoroughly and completely objectionable. I believe it to be bad in principle, and that it will be inimical to the interests of the nation in practice. The second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  reeks with nauseating hypocrisy. Let me cite to the House just one of many examples of this. The Minister stated: 
This means that migrants from all the 31 Commonwealth countries will now have the same opportunity as other migrants to take part in citizenship ceremonies suitably marking the important occasion of their becoming citizens. At these ceremonies, so well known to honourable members, the community in which the new citizens live will welcome them into the community and the family of the nation. It will end a situation of active discrimination against e'nthusiastic Commonwealth of Nations applicants for Australian citizenship who have been denied the same welcome as has long been afforded others. 
This conjures up a picture of tens of thousands of British migrants seriously disaffected because they do not have the privilege of being naturalised at a naturalisation ceremony and, instead, are seriously discriminated against by being able to acquire citizenship by registration. It conjures up a picture of thousands of would-be British migrants deterred from coming to Australia because they will face this fearful discrimination. 
Just who does the Minister for Immigration think he is kidding? Since when did people who are placed in a privileged position object because there was discrimination in their favour? This sort of nonsense would be laughable if it were not so serious. If I had stated that sort of thing when I was Minister for Immigration, the bright young men of the Press would have laughed me out of court. What the Minister is trying to do by weaving words such as those contained in this inane second reading speech is to avoid any justification of the new arrangements he proposes in terms of objectives which are nationally valid. 
I want to dwell on this point because it is about time that the people of Australia woke up to .the fact that this is what this Minister has been doing ever since he took over his portfolio. He has been making Press statements at the rate of three or four a day. He is the greatest promoter of Dorothy Dixers in the House. 
1 said 'he', not his Press secretary. Words pour out of him in a never ending stream. Of yes, he gets the headlines because he is an expert at that. So did Hitler get the headlines for the same reason. He coins emotive phrases such as 'the family of the nation', whatever that means, and 'absence of discrimination', with which people in a vague sort of way can identify themselves, but which mean very little unless their consequences are spelled out. The Minister never does spell out those consequences because the words - endless words - are designed as a deliberate smokescreen to distract people's attention from what actually is happening. 
While the Minister fiddles, or rather talks, our traditional immigration program is crumbling into ruins. Mesmerised by the Minister's words, people are not aware that his actions have seriously reduced the supply of good quality British migrants of European origin, that the composition of our immigration program has changed rapidly so that there no longer is a predominance of people from western Europe, Britain and North America of European descent arriving in Australia under the program; that the proportion of people with skills and professional qualifications has fallen and given way to people who have no other qualification than a relative in Australia who is prepared to sponsor them. That is what the Minister for Immigration has been doing while he has been talking. That, in cold hard fact, is what has been happening. What it means in essence is that while the Minister has been big-noting himself by claiming the previous Government's initiatives in migrant integration as his own, and emphasising the importance his Government attaches to immigration, he is by his actions in relation to the program storing up formidable integration problems for the future. 
It is from this point of view that I want to examine this Bill. The Government, by proposing to alter the traditional system whereby British subjects of European origin are required to be in Australia for only one year before naturalisation, has adopted, whether deliberately or not, a stance Which will be widely interpreted as being unfriendly to British migration and as a deterrent in some cases to British migration. For what reason? I have already exposed the explanation given by the Minister for Immigration for the hypocritical humbug that it is. 
If any Member has- 
used objectionable words, which he has refused to withdraw; 
I seek your ruling on this matter,  Mr Speaker.  The words which the honourable member for Barker has used are objectionable to me. He has used words during his speech which have likened the Minister for Immigration to Hitler. He has used words;- 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Do his recent answers to questions mean that the Government has abandoned the policy of the previous Government that the Commonwealth has a special responsibility to provide telephones for those who live in isolation in rural areas. 
If so, has the Government replaced this policy with one based on the greatest good for the greatest number and/or one based strictly on the economics of providing the service. 
Is it the attitude of the Government that people living cheek by jowl in metropolitan cities have the same requirement for telephones as, and should receive preference over, people living in the country for whom the existence of a telephone can often be a matter of life and death. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did he, in a reply to  Mr V.  F. Arnold, the Victorian Government Statist and Actuary, on 20th March 1973, say that Victorian hospital fund reserves stand at more than $25m and should be used to pay nursing home benefits without increasing contributions. 
Did he criticise the previous Government, in his statement of 5th March 1973, for similarly using the reserves of the medical funds to benefit contributors faced with increased medical costs; if so why. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it in the best interests of public service morale, efficiency and objectivity to table documents such as that written by the then  Mr Patrick  Shaw. 
Was the document written in the context of a long standing convention that it would not be made public. 
If so, is the tabling of the document to be regarded as a precedent to be followed by himself and his Ministers in the future. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In what way does the new migrant counselling and selection system, announced by him as an initiative of his Government, differ from the proposal on the same subject announced by the previous Minister on 31 August 1972. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is membership  of  the Communist Party of Australia a barrier to the conferment of Australian citizenship? 
I thank the House. Many members on this side of the House both past and present have over the years fought for acceptance of the point of view that whatever else our defence effort comprises, adequate and effective ground forces are essential to the credibility of the armed forces generally. This we believe applies to any of the roles in which our armed forces may be cast - whether it is the defence of the Australian mainland, the defence of our Territories, our interests overseas or fulfilling our obligations in a United Nations peacekeeping role. If evidence were needed of this the demonstration of the way in which the North Vietnamese Army has resisted massive naval and air power should have provided a profound lesson for us all. 
We have fought for this point of view that we cannot have adequate, effective and credible ground forces without at least the framework of a division. The Chief of General Staff in the same lecture to which I have referred cogently put the reasons why that is so and no doubt this will provide the reasons why, as the Minister said in his statement, the Chief of General Staff dissented from the views of the sailors, the airman and the civilian on the Defence Forces Development Committee. I seek leave to have those views incorporated in Hansard. 
First, the nine battalion Army. The requirement for nine battalions should not be considered in isolation or necessarily in relation to the infantry strength needed for any particular operation. It must be viewed as part of the Army's general requirements for a field force of a size at least sufficient to: 
meet possible contingencies; 
enable development of expertise in all aspects appropriate to a modern Army; 
pass on its experience to the CMF and Reserves; 
provide a sound basis for expansion; 
contribute to the credibility of our armed forces generally. 
For these reasons we believe we must have the framework of a division and I would remind you that the term 'division' signifies the smallest permanent grouping of units into an independent, balanced military formation of units of combat, combat support and logistics. If we do not have a division or at least the essential framework we have no capability to field an independent balanced force. 
A task force does not meet the requirement. Despite publicity which gave the impression that our Task Force in Vietnam was an independent entity, it could not have operated without the massive supplementation it received from the US, the Vietnamese, the Australian Logistic Support Group  andl  HQ Australian Force, Vietnam. Such supplementation cannot be assumed for future operations but in any case is not available in peace to allow balanced training and preparation for war. 
A series of hostilities since the Second World War has enabled us, by operating with larger armies, to develop a high degree of professionalism otherwise unachievable in a small army; the reservoir of this experience will last for some years but the prospects of a long period of peace make this aspect a most important one when considering the size and shape of the Army. This has particular relevance to the training of senior officers, on whom the standards  of  an army depend. It is simply not possible to develop and perfect systems and procedures in such vital fields as logistics, communications, command and control without adequate forces in being. 
After fighting for many years for this point of view - the point of view that one does not have an Army at all unless one has at least the structure of a division and one certainly does not have the structure of a division, whatever the Minister might say, with an Army of 31,000 - we achieved it in the mid-1960s. The Labor Party has destroyed it. That is what the Minister's statement adds up to. We now have an Army about the same size as the New York City Police Force whose capacity to perform the role of an Army is just about as great. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
As this measure does no more than duplicate for public relations purposes action which has already been taken, the Opposition has no interest in it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many National Servicemen will remain in the Army on: 
30 June 1973 
30 September 1973 
31 December 1973 and 
31 March 1974. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
By what criteria was the target of 31,000 Army volunteers by June 1973, mentioned In his press statement of 20 March 1973 selected. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In what way does the extension of the integration services to meet the special needs of migrant children by the provision of bilingual or multi-lingual officers trained in welfare work, announced by him as an initiative of his Government, differ from the proposal on the same subject announced by the previous Minister on 31 August 1972. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In what way do the new migrant education centres, announced by him as an initiative of his Government, differ from the proposal on the same subject announced by the previous Minister on 31 August 1972. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many United Kingdom citizens of (a) European and (b) West Indian descent (i) applied to migrate, (ii) were approved as migrants and (iii) arrived in Australia in each of the first 3 months of 1973. 
What were the occupational categories of the migrants concerned. 
Are there any differences in the criteria laid down for (a) the selection of migrants and (b) the grant of assisted passages, in respect of citizens of the United Kingdom who are of (i) European and (ii) West Indian descent; if so, what are they, 
-The Opposition supports this measure which, as was pointed out by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  has 2 purposes. One, in the broad, is to apply to regular servicemen the rehabilitation and retraining benefits which have applied in the past to national servicemen, and the other is to put into legislative form the already announced proposal to pay a re-engagement bonus of $1,000 after 6 years of service on the basis of a further 3 years of service. We support these proposals because they will benefit servicemen and, together with other measures which were undertaken by the previous Government, to some extent attempt to compensate servicemen for the hardships and difficulties involved in the sort of life that they have to lead. Also we believe that these proposals will play some part in attracting people to a Service career. 
Having said that, I believe that out of all responsibility I must comment on this legislation in the context of what the Government is doing in relation to defence spending and the defence of this country as a whole. In the last sentence of his second reading speech the Minister for Defence states: 
The Bill is complementary to other measures such as defence service homes and repatriation benefits which the Government is in the process of extending to servicemen not only in recognition of their occupation in present day circumstances but also in pursuit of the Government's determination to provide an adequate volunteer force. 
We have the extraordinary situation that on the one hand the Government, by means of this measure, is spending money in providing these benefits- I do not know how much; the Minister did not put any cost on the proposals- but, on the other hand, in the interests of economy and in order to find money to finance the vast welfare proposals which this Government has it is ruthlessly cutting back on defence expenditure as a whole. This cut-back on expenditure applies both to the manpower for the Services and. to equipment. We will hear more about that tonight. 
But I only have to remind the House of what the Minister had to say in his statement to the Parliament towards the end of the last session when he announced the Government's decisions in relation to the Army. He said then that the Government had decided that Australia should have an Army of 34,000 by 1976. If the current recruiting rate continues- encouraged somewhat, no doubt, by the measures contained in this legislation- the Government, by putting this ceiling on the size of the Army, will be knocking back SOO recruits a year. Those SOO recruits out of the 1,500 that are becoming available would be eligible in all respects to serve in the Services. It seems to me to be quite extraordinary to say, as the Minister has said, that the Government is providing the measures contained in this legislation in order to provide an adequate volunteer force and that, because the Government gives such a low priority to defence as a whole, it puts a limitation on the manpower for the Services in the interests of the economy. It is not based on the interests of the security of the country but it is based purely on a desire to economise and to reduce defence spending. 
We all know that the Army and the Department of Defence have advocated an army of 38,000 men. That information came out of a report by a committee set up by the Minister. The Minister rejected that advice and came to this House with a proposal for an army of 34,000 by 1976- not now. If the Government were prepared to accept the recommendations of its defence advisers it would at the very least be accepting every recruit that comes forward. But it is not doing that. It is knocking them back at the rate of 500 a year. One of the reasons for this is the additional expense that is involved as the result of the introduction of measures such as the one before us. This is an extremely topsy-turvy situation. These sorts of considerations lead me to believe that the motivation of the Government is highly suspect and that it is not really interested in the welfare of servicemen at all. 
Of course, in this measure the Minister is honouring an election promise to provide these benefits. It is now clear in the total picture that I have presented why he gave these particular undertakings, all wrapped up in the guise of the suggestion that the Labor Party is interested in the welfare of servicemen and in the defence of the country. He gave these undertakings at that time because he wished quite deliberately to allay public disquiet about the prospects of a Labor government in charge of the defences of this country and particularly in the context of an undertaking to abolish overnight the national service scheme. As in so many fields, the Government set out in a deliberate attempt to mislead the country about its bona fides in the defence field and to quieten public distrust of the Labor Party. 
The other reason why it gave this undertakingagain had nothing to do with the interests of exservicemen. It had a lot to do with the desire of the Labor Party to win the seat of Herbert, from my colleague. In that electorate the servicemen's vote is quite considerable. The Labor Party's election undertaking had a lot to do with the Government's desire to retain the seat of Bendigo which contains the large Army complex of Puckapunyal. It had a fair bit to do, even though his was a safe seat, with the desire of the Labor Party's leader to please the people who occupy the Holsworthy-Ingleburn complex in the electorate of Werriwa. It was a vote catching device. It was not related to any genuine feeling for the interests of servicemen at all. 
I gave the reasons why I know that earlier. The honourable gentleman should have been listening. I am very glad to say that servicemen in these electorates, particularly in the electorates of Herbert and Bendigo, did not fall for these venal bribes of the Labor Party. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  retained his seat with an increased majority, and to the greater glory of Australian democracy the former member for Bendigo lost his seat. One of the reasons for that was that servicemen in those electorates instinctively knew that a Labor Party government could not be trusted with defence; that, whatever the Labor Party might do about providing marginal benefits of this sort as a vote winning device, when it came to establishing priorities defence would be very low down on the list. 
As I understand it, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  tonight will indicate in no uncertain fashion the truth of those words. It has even been suggested that the inadequate Army of 34,000, which the Minister for Defence announced as the Government's decision only a few months ago. has been reduced still further to 3 1 ,000 in the course of the Budget deliberations. The Government has been knocking back all recruits except those necessary to replace people who leave the Services at least during the current 12 months. These are the sorts of things which servicemen instinctively feel about the Australian Labor Party. That is why they did not vote for the Labor Party, and everything that has happened since this Government came into office makes it quite clear that servicemen showed very good judgment in this respect. 
Of course, the Government realises that improved conditions of service play a part in the process of attracting volunteers to the armed Services, and this was recognised by the previous Government. Most of the measures which have contributed to the present higher recruiting rate for the Army were instituted by the previous Government. That trend was in existence before the new Government came into office. But the Government should also realise that the provision of improved conditions of service plays only a part in the process of persuading people to volunteer for the Services. Just as importantperhaps more important- in persuading people in the community to volunteer for the armed Services is the creation of a feeling that the government of the day will not renege on its obligation to maintain adequate defence forces; that if a person comes into the Services he will have an assured career; that the Services operate on a scale which guarantees him an assured career; that there are opportunities for advancement; and that he will have interesting and gainful training and things of that sort. I believe that this is even more important than the offering of inducements. This is what servicemen had under the defence policy of the previous Government. 
It is an interesting fact that during the period of the national service scheme the structure of the Regular Army was expanded and improved to an enormous extent. Over that period people were able to see for themselves that the Government meant business, that there was a career that meant something, that the Government was serious about the Army and defence. Even though there existed alongside it a national service scheme the volunteer content of the Army improved progressively throughout the whole of the life of that scheme. I put that down to the sorts of considerations I was talking about earlier. I believe that despite the honouring of these commitments, made partly as bribes in certain key seats and partly to allay public disquiet about the defence policies likely to be pursued by the Labor Party if it came to office, the other actions in the defence area taken by this Government demonstrate without a shadow of doubt that it has very little interest at all in defence; that defence comes very low in the priorities it has set. As I have said, I believe that this situation will be amply demonstrated when we hear the Treasurer's Budget Speech tonight. The feeling in the community and in the armed forces that this is the attitude of the Government to defence will more than compensate for any recruiting advantages that this sort of measure will have. 
We do not oppose the Bill because we are genuinely interested in defence and the welfare of servicemen. We do not regard servicemen as political pawns. Anything that is done to improve the conditions of service and the welfare of servicemen will receive our support but we condemn the Government for its overall approach to defence. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
) Has the relationship between the salaries of the Chiefs of Staff and the Permanent Heads of the Departments of the Navy, Army and Air changed to the disadvantage of the Chiefs of Staff. ( 2) If so, does this represent action on the part of the Government to downgrade the status of the Service officers concerned in relation to their civilian counterparts. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he announce on 5 March 1973 that the rank of Commander, Tasmania Command, would be raised from Colonel to Brigadier from 1 April 1973. 
If so, did he give as the reason for this that the raising of 2 CMF Battalions in Tasmania in 1972 and the current reorganisation of the Australian Army created a situation analogous to that in South Australia and Western Australia where Brigadiers fill the posts of Commander. 
Did he also say that it was necessary for a Formation Commander in Tasmania to be of one star rank because of his Command and disciplinary responsibilities. 
If so, will he give the order of battle in each of the 3 States mentioned so that a judgment can be made as to the comparative responsibilities of the Commanders. 
What Command disciplinary responsibilities has a Commander in Tasmania now that he did not have previously. 
What elements in the new organisation of the Australian Army along functional rather than geographic lines make it necessary for the Commander in Tasmania Command to be a Brigadier. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he supply details which indicate the trend in recruiting and retention rates in each of the three Services at appropriate intervals between 1 January 1971 and 31 March 1973. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he say in his address to the National Press Club on IS March 1973 that decisions about the future structure of our Armed Forces and the kind of equipment which they will need must be made in the light of our new national goals. 
If so, what new national goals did he have in mind. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he, in answer to a question by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition directed to elicit whether one man was capable of handling all 5 Defence portfolios, say that the Moreshead Committee had recommended the system that the Government had introduced 
If so, did the Moreshead Committee recommend the precise system which now exists. 
In the interests of 'accuracy and also so that the House may be in a better .position to consider the detailed Government proposals. -for integration of the Defence Group of Departments when they are announced later in 1973, will he make public the Moreshead Committee Report. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports from United States Air Force sources which assert, on the basis of experience in the Vietnam War, that the F111 was far superior to any other aircraft in its capacity to hit targets with precision in all conditions including darkness and bad weather, and with significant saving in aircrew, aircraft and cost. 
Does information available to him support this assessment of the performance of the aircraft. 
Will the Minister for Defence provide the House with information on the many measures designed to achieve economies in defence expenditure, particularly those relating to cuts in training activity which He chose not to disclose in his statement on 22 August and in relation to which information has been dribbling out ever since with shattering effect on the morale of the Services? Will he provide this information, together with the estimated savings, before the debate on the defence estimates takes place? 
The Opposition brings forward this matter of public importance because it is gravely and genuinely disturbed by the rapidity of the decline in Australia's defence capability since this Government took office. It has been said by some that there are no votes in defence these days. The Australian Labor Party obviously thinks so. But that does not detract from the overriding responsibility of this Parliament to ensure that the nation is adequately defended. That there have been substantial cuts in our defence capability, both in manpower and in equipment in being and proposed to be acquired, is not in question. We were told as much by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in his statement on 22 August. He has admitted, in answer to a question in this House, that he deliberately dishonoured an election undertaking to keep defence spending above 3.3 per cent of the gross national product. He has told us that the proportion of the defence vote to be spent on new equipment has fallen to the lowest level in history. 
There are many things which he has not told us. They include: The consequences of the decision to slash expenditure which are dribbling out bit by bit as servicemen, stung by a sense of outrage, reveal the facts; the disbanding of units; the reduction in flying and sailing hours which are so essential to the high standards of the Australian Services; the voluntary resignation of highly trained people both in defence industries and the Services - there is a report only this morning of the imminent retirement, on the grounds of dissatisfaction and concern over morale, by no less a person than a major-general - and the compulsory retirement of valuable people to meet manpower ceilings, despite the Minister's assurances that this would not happen. Time will not allow me to detail the whole dreary catalogue, but what is certain is that the whole sorry business has had a catastrophic effect on the morale of the Services. 
Honourable members do not have to take my word for it. When senior serving officers speak out so bitterly, as a number have done, something is wrong. When a journalist as balanced, knowledgeable and experienced as. Denis Warner feels it necessary to write the articles which he did, and when the Minister for Defence feels it necessary to traduce  Mr Warner  under parliamentary privilege, something is wrong. When such a committed ALP supporter and apologist as  Major Peter  Young says that if morale in the Services has not reached rock bottom it is only 2 inches from it, and when he describes the Governments actions as 'the worst body blow ever dealt to Australia's defences', something is gravely wrong. 
Morale is that indefinable quality which has made the Australian Services, although small by comparison with the forces of other countries, such formidable opponents. That is why it is so important. The Minister does not even begin to understand what it is about. Whenever he is tackled about it, he bleats in an injured way about how much he has done for the material welfare of the servicemen - most of it, I might add in passing, initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government. He believes that morale can be bought with pay and conditions of service. He has not even begun to understand that although these things are important, without a clearly defined sense of purpose, without a conviction that the Government believes that the Services have a meaningful role to play and without a readiness on the Government's part to provide money for the equipment and training necessary to do this job, there will be no morale. 
What is the Minister's justificaton for all this damage he has done to our defence capability? He, masterful man that he is, commissioned a strategic appreciation looking 15 years ahead. This concluded - surprise, surprise - 'that no significant requirement is likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces' during the period concerned. All this damage that the Minister has done - the reduction of the Army to what someone has described, rightly I believe, as a 'corporal's guard* and so on - has been done in the name of this bald assertion. There is no evidence, no supporting documentation. I have seen enough of defence appreciations to know that they can be subject to widely differing interpretations. In the absence of specific evidence I must conclude that the Minister has put an interpretation on the defence appreciation to suit the ideological proclivities of himself and his left wing colleagues. 
What I am asserting is that I do not believe him, and I do not believe the Australian people believe him when he says these things. I do not believe that we have suddenly drifted into a safer and more tranquil world which justifies the Government's drawing the conclusion that threats or situations will not arise in the foreseeable future which will require Australia to have a significant defence capability. To believe this, as so many people have pointed out, would be to defy all the lessons of history. I shall quote to the 
House one example of what I mean. A revered Labor Prime Minister, John Curtin, when Leader of the Opposition, on 6 November 1938 in this House said: 
Defence expenditure must depend entirely on the conditions which prevail in the world from time to time. Obviously that must be the position. I say that any increase of defence expenditure after the Munich pact as far as Australia is concerned appears to me to be an entirely unjustifiable and hysterical piece of panic propaganda. 
Mir Edwards - What year was that? 
-That was 1938. In the postwar period there was no warning very far ahead of our commitment in Korea, of our commitment to the Malaysian insurgency, confrontation or the war in Vietnam. As I say, to accept the Minister's argument defies the lessons of history. To do so also, if I may say so, is to set our judgment apart from all our near neighbours and significant allies. I have just visited most of these countries. None of them shares the Minister's sanguine view about the future security of the South East Asian region. There is widespread suspicion of the communist powers, both Russia and China, and deep concern at the prospect of withdrawal of United States influence. There is no doubt in their minds - and I spoke to the same persons to whom the Minister has spoken in those countries - based on previous and current experience that Russia will move into any vacuum created by a Western withdrawal, and that if this happened China would be bound to follow. Indeed, there is no doubt that the biggest single external threat to the region is the possible projection of Sino-Soviet antagonism into the region. 
There also is no doubt that Australia's reputation, built up over many years, as a reliable but unobtrusive partner and friend in the region, has been almost totally destroyed by the actions and attitudes of this Government. The countries in the region believe that this Government is isolationist and unwilling to play a role as a partner in preserving the security of the region. I found when I was visiting those countries that in every one of them the defence cuts by this Government have been carefully noted and have received wide publicity. They have been universally interpreted as further evidence - if it were needed - that Australia has opted . out of the region. In my judgment and in the judgment of my Party, this interpretation is correct. 
Does anyone really believe that the Minister's belief that we can base our defence planning on a trouble free period for the years ahead stands up when we contemplate the current Arab-Israeli conflict - a conflict in which great power rivalries are deeply involved? If great power rivalries can take place in the Middle East and involve warfare of the severity which is now taking place, why is it impossible to contemplate them spilling over into South East Asia, the Pacific or the Indian Ocean? The whole concept on which the Government's so-called defence planning is based defies the most elementary tenets of common sense. Finally, when will the Minister match his words with deeds, his admirable sentiments with actions? Let me quote some of them. He said: 
I wish to stress ... the extent to which Australia nowadays and in the future must accept the primary and independent responsibility for safeguarding our security and strategic interests. 
Great stuff. He also said: 
We must maintain a defence capability that accords with our foreign policy. 
Admirable stuff. He further said: 
The modern situation requires Australia to be more self-reliant than in the past . . . 
I remind the House that that is the very objective which we as a government embraced in our later years in office, and we announced our plans to achieve it. In essence, what these words which the Minister has used mean is that we should develop a capability which makes us less dependent on allies in a lower level situation. Yet almost every defence cut the Government has made makes us less, not more, self reliant. 
The cuts include the virtual scrapping of the DDLs; the phasing out of HMAS Sydney' with nothing to take its place; the deferring of a decision on a replacement for the Neptunes; the go-slow policy at Cockburn Sound; no decision on the replacement of the Centurion tanks, the failure to make a decision on the aircraft industry; the dismantling of large sections of defence industry in general; and the scrapping of a Mirage squadron. The list is practically endless, but all the items I have mentioned have one thing in common; they achieve exactly the opposite to the brave words proclaimed by the Minister. There is not a shadow of a doubt that Labor cannot be trusted with the defence of this country. 
Almost for the first time I find myself in substantial agreement with some of the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). 
I take that point. I remember an honourable member of this House, long departed and now dead, who in a different context talked about straddling a barbed wire fence and the sorts of problems that caused. The honourable member for Riverina, from the point of view of his Party and the difficulties he had in his own electorate, tonight showed consummate skill in doing just that. The honourable member for Riverina is a member of the Government. He is a member of the inner Cabinet of 27 as opposed to the outer Cabinet of 93. One of the things on which we, the people in the country and the honourable member's constituents should reflect is not so much the words and sentiments which he expressed tonight but the contrast between those sentiments and the sentiments expressed by his senior colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
I interpreted the honourable member for Riverina as saying that if any primary industry goes to this Industries Assistance Commission with a good, sound case it will be in no difficulty. I happen to agree with that statement. 
However, that is not what the Minister for Social Security said. He came into this House and, except for a few saving words for political purposes at the end of his speech, made it perfectly clear that if he has his way every single bit of assistance which has been provided to the primary industries of this country will be withdrawn. Nothing could be clearer from the words he used. He used expressions, which outside the Parliament would be libellous, about the way in which my friends and colleagues in the Country Party conducted themselves in government. On this particular measure I am opposed to my friends in the Country Party and I intend to support it. 
But I would like to make it perfectly clear that I disagree with the Minister for Social Security and throw back into his teeth everything that he said about my colleagues in the Country Party in regard to the way in which they operated in relation to primary industry when in Government. I was a member of that Government myself for 9 years. I took part in the decisions about which the Minister spoke. If I ever had any disagreement with my friends in the Country Party in Cabinet it was that they did not provide enough by way of legitimate assistance to primary industry in the circumstances in which it was placed. But I could understand that. During the whole of the time I was a member of the previous Government, Country Party members had the portfolios which carried the main responsibility. They consulted the people. They had the experts. They had the responsibility to provide the responsible advice to the Cabinet. I cannot remember over 9 years one single instance in which after searching my conscience, after consulting my own constituents and knowing a great deal about the industries which operated in the electorate I represent, I found myself in basic disagreement with the responsible recommendations which were made by my Country Party colleagues in relation to assistance for primary industry. I throw back into the teeth of the Minister for Social Security the accusations made by him. 
I ask the honourable member for Riverina, in good conscience to his own constituents, at some stage to place in print in the local newspapers in his electorate the speech which he made tonight side by side with the speech made by the Minister for Social Security in order to show the contrast. I invite his constituents to consider just how much weight he will carry, as one of the few representa tives in his Party of rural areas in Australia, against the heavyweight Minister for Social Security who is the fourth most important Minister in the Cabinet and who is backed up by a vast array of Ministers, almost threequarters of whom come from the metropolitan cities of Australia. I ask the honourable member for Riverina to publish those 2 speeches in the newspapers- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is no point of order. The honourable member for Barker is rebutting the previous arguments. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let us leave this lightweight in the inner Cabinet of 27. 
Let us be clear on what we are talking about in this debate. After carefully reading this measure and after taking into account the amendments which we on this side of the House propose, what is basically in question and what is basically proposed, as I understand it, is to extend to the primary industries of this country the same system of examination of requests for assistance as has previously been applied by the Tariff Board to secondary industries. I know that tertiary industries are included but I think the primary debate at this stage, as would be recognised by both sides of the House, is that this is what is involved. 'I have for years advocated strongly the case for Government assistance to the primary industries because I believe that the arguments for Government assistance for the primary industries are unanswerable and unassailable, and basically - and this has often been said - because the costs which are met by the primary industries in Australia are determined locally in Australia on the local market. Prices for the bulk of our primary products are determined on world markets. These costs determined in Australia are heavily influenced by national policies pursued by governments - not only by this Government but also by previous governments - being such things as economic growth, full employment, the diversification of industry and the pursuance of a high scale of immigration. All these things add to the Australian cost structure and place a burden on the primary industries which are much higher than they would be if natural economic forces were left to work themselves out. 
If resources flowed naturally without interference by governments to the most economic and the most productive sectors of the economy, I have no doubt that - if that theoretical situation applied the primary industries in Australia would have no difficulty whatever in standing on their own feet without assistance at all from governments. But it does not apply, and I do not quarrel with its not applying. I support these national objectives which have lead to an increase in the cost structure. As I said, primary industries have natural advantages and resources would flow to them if a free market applied; and as I also said, if this were the case they would not need assistance. But this is not the case, and as a result those sections of primary industries which export have to carry the burden of policies designed to achieve national objectives. There is no doubt in my mind, and there is no doubt in the minds of any of the knowledgeable and responsible people connected with the primary industries, that the assistance which those industries have received in compensation can be more than justified in these terms; and yet there is a marked reluctance - and this was mentioned by the honourable member for Riverina - on the part of people outside the primary industries to accept the argument that this is valid or even to give it serious examination. Here I refer to a number of our great metropolitan newspapers which consistently carry leading articles about the necessity of the primary industries having to stand on their own feet in circumstances in which, as far as I can find out, nobody else in Australia stands on his own feet unhelped or unaided. Very few sections of secondary industry stand on their own feet without assistance and unaided. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself talked about $200,000m in protection to manufacturing industries as opposed to, I think - taking his phrase - a few hundred million dollars to primary industries. 
I said $2,000m. Look up your own Prime Minister's speech. 
Several thousand million dollars. 
I apologise if that is what I did not say. What the Prime Minister said - and it makes my point valid - was that assistance to the rural sector involves several thousand million dollars a year. But despite this there is a tendency in many quarters to talk about handouts for political and other purposes. There has been reference to primary industries standing on their own feet, as I say, in circumstances in which nobody else stands on his own feet. The manufacturers do not stand on their own feet. The wage earners of this country do not stand on their own feet; they do not operate in a free market; they operate under legislation which provides them with a minimum remuneration. Looking around the Australian community, it is very difficult to find anybody who does not receive protection by one means or another. Yet the people to whom 1 am referring - the newspapers and the many critics and pundits in many quarters - constantly talk about these handouts to primary industries, this assistance to primary industries, and the necessity for them to stand on their own feet. They say to primary industries: You are no good. You must go to the wall. You must be reconstructed if you cannot get on without help'. How often have we heard that sort of expression from quarters which should know better? I despair from ever reaching the situation in which this matter will be properly examined by the people about whom I am talking and proper credit given. 
To me, the advantage of this Commission is that it will cut right through this cant. I am convinced, and so is the honourable member for Riverina, that it will either provide as much or more assistance, or make recommendations, having the capacity to look at the spectrum as a whole, and be able to determine that in relation to secondary industries and primary industries - it has also a responsibility for primary industry - and to the burden that it imposes on those industries, it should make an equivalent cut in tariffs on secondary industry so that there will be no requirement, or a lesser requirement for assistance to primary industries. In other words, there will be an interrelation or an interaction between the various types of assistance. That is my first reason for supporting this measure. I have no doubt in my mind whatsoever that primary industries will do as well, if not better, as a result of going to this Commission because they have an unanswerable case. 
My second reason for supporting this measure - 'and this was alluded to in the excellent speech made by the honouarble member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  - is that I personally regard this measure as a protection for primary industries against the predatory citybased Labor Party. The Labor Party has demonstrated in a very short 9 or 10 months in office that it does not care a damn about primary industries and country people, and the speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  tonight was a good demonstration of that. Without something like this Commission, I am quite convinced that every bit of assistance provided to primary industries by the previous Government will be quickly dismantled without the slightest consultation with the industries concerned. The present Government has done a pretty good job of that already. 
Take the dairy industry. To my mind the case for the retention of the dairy industry subsidy is unanswerable. If this Commission had been in existence it would have been illegal for the Government in one stroke of the pen without consultation to take the subsidy away. The Government would have had to refer such a move, the leaders of the dairy industry would have been able to put their case and in my considered opinion in those circumstances that subsidy would still be there. It would not be gone. We also should consider all of the other things - the taxation concessions and so on - that were contained in the last Budget. We have to live with the reality of a Labor Government which is opposed to primary industry and country interests. I would infinitely prefer the approach in this Bill to that of the Coombs approach in which the Government hands over to a small group the job of sifting through all these schemes which we set up after careful examination and after receiving expert advice, and then without consulting with industry removes them with one stroke of the pen, without consultation and without giving the opportunity for the industry to put its point of view. 
Basically it is for these 2 reasons - firstly, because I believe that the primary industries will do just as well under the Commission as they do at present and secondly, because the Commission will protect them against a preda tory city-based anti-primary industry Government - mat I support this measure with the amendments that we propose. 
Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy tell the House his reaction to the unanimous resolution of the South Australian Parliament condemning his obstructive and doctrinaire attitude which is risking the establishment of a very much needed petrochemical industry in that State? 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for leave to make a short statement on the matter of the tabling of the White Paper on the Australian Health Insurance program which was previoussly being discussed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. May I say, by way of preface, how pleasant it is to see him back so quickly in his place in the House and looking so fit. I refer to reports that the Government is likely to appoint a civil servant as defence ombudsman. Is the Minister aware that there is a widespread distrust - rightly or wrongly - in the Services of the part played by civil servants in matters affecting the welfare of servicemen? Will he give an assurance that this office will not be used as a convenient repository for redundant civil servants? Will he also give an assurance that before any decision is made as to the qualifications required for this office, the Services themselves will be consulted and that their views will be the principal consideration which will guide the Government in the making of an appointment? 
Well, I will be very glad to give the Postmaster-General some details indicating that in many cases that situation will apply. But I am saying that I do not believe the Postmaster-General should downgrade one single official post office. 
In response to the Minister's question, I cannot say absolutely, but I think I am right in saying that I do not believe a single post office in my time when the previous Government was in office was downgraded from an official to a non-official post office. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! I think the honourable gentleman would know that the point of order is not valid. The estimates before the Committee at present are the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The honourable member, a very experienced member of this House, had his opportunity when the question was put to the Committee. I asked then whether a division was desired. There was no response. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - I proceeded to deal with the next business. The business before the Committee at the present time is the estimates for . the Postmaster-General's Department. I call the honourable member for Hunter. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In a matter of public importance which the Opposition raised earlier this month we criticised the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  for slashing defence expenditure. Incidentally, I make the point in the context of speaking to these estimates that the amount of reduction in defence expenditure was considerably greater than was admitted by the Government because the Government failed to take account of the amount by which it reduced defence expenditure in the second half of the financial year by the decisions it made immediately after coming into office. Nevertheless, we criticised the Government for the slashing of defence expenditure, for running down the defence forces, for cancelling or deferring vital equipment expenditures and, above all, for breaking a clear election promise to spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. 
When we raised this matter the Minister was aggrieved. He defended himself not only in the House during the discussion of the matter of public importance but he also went to great lengths to defend himself in a long speech at the Returned Services League Congress in Perth. He stated that he had not become the Minister for Defence for the purpose of dismantling this country's defences. The Committee will recognise the Churchillian overtones in that phrase. He quoted at length and selectively from the strategic assessment looking 15 years into the future. Anyone who did not accept his assessment of what the defence forces required was living, in the past, according to the Minister, as he upbraided the members of the RSL Congress and anybody else who would criticise him. He even said: 
I do not support a mindless process of determining defence policy by a reference to defence spending as a proportion of the gross national product. 
Really, for a person, who had run around the country for some years before the last election in order to reassure Australians about the Australian Labor Party's defence policy, to make such a statement before a body like the RSL Congress I believe needs no further comment from me. If any confirmation of the criticism we and others have made is required it is contained in the statement that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on behalf of the Minister for Defence sneaked into the House yesterday. The Opposition had alleged that all sorts of decisions had been taken which were detrimental to our defence capability and which the Minister had not announced in his statement in August. We alleged that these decisions had played a large part in the decline of the morale of the defence forces; and we were right. The decisions have been dragged out of the Minister and are there for everyone to see. The decisions that the Minister did not announce go to the very heart of a serviceman's basic motivation for service - his pride, his training and his search for excellence. 
I turn now - unfortunately I have very little time - to the strategic assessment which the Minister uses so frequently to confound his critics. When I spoke on the discussion of a matter of public importance I was sceptical of the assessment. How dare I, said the Minister. How dare the RSL. How dare all the others who have been sceptical. I spoke, as I said then, from experience of the interpretation that can be put on these assessments and of how the Government's interpretations defied the tenets of history, experience and common sense. The Minister was indignant. But I quote from  Mr Clem  Lloyd, the Minister's ex-Press secretary, on this question. He said: 
It is clear from Government statements that its new concern with continental defence and its confidence in a low threat environment is based substantially on the latest strategic estimates which came this year from Defence Department planners. 
There is reason for some concern at the unduly heavy weight the Government is putting on the latest estimates. 
There remains a danger with this sort of document that the strategic conclusions of the Government's advisers are implied in a framework which is tailored essentially to existing Government policy and what the Government wants to hear. Something analogous occurs in other departmental documents such as Treasury, White Papers; you have to read between the lines. 
Reiteration of base assertions such as 'Our advisers tell us there is no threat for 15 years' are too simplistic; they don't do justice to the quality of the work contained in these documents where the inflections are expressed with much greater subtlety. 
My fears and suspicions are confirmed by the Minister's refusal, despite my request in writing, to permit me as Opposition spokesman on defence, to see the strategic assessment on a confidential basis. The fact is that the Government is not fair dinkum on defence. All this talk of the absence of threat is a smokescreen for a decision to save money from the defence vote for other purposes. In this respect the Coom'bs report is a revealing document. I do not have time to go into it now, but it clearly shows that this was the Government's motive. The Government should be honest enough to come out and say so; to tell the people that it has chosen butter rather than guns and not pretend by hiding behind its interpretation of the strategic assessment that adequate defence is being provided when it is not. 
I do not rest my case on the Coombs report alone. It rests equally on the fact that the. Government does not match its words with actions. The decisions it makes do not match the scenario it paints. Let us assume that its assessment of the strategic situation is correct and that there are no threats or situations on the horizon which will require the use of Australian forces in the next 10 to 15 years, that this prediction becomes more uncertain as we get further away from the present and that if the situation changes it will change slowly with plenty of time to adjust to the new circumstances. This, as I understand it, is the Government's position. For reasons which we have outlined we would bitterly contest the Government's position, but let us assume that it is correct. Let us assume too what is in fact the case, that the Government wishes to put a ceiling on defence expenditure, and indeed to slash it, in the interests of other expenditure programs. In those circumstances surely the logical course to take is to concentrate expenditure on the long lead items - items that cannot be obtained in a hurry and which may be needed as the future grows more uncertain - and at the same time to economise on the items with a short lead time, in particular, non-specialised manpower. This was the solution advocated by the Minister's special adviser,  Mr McGaurr  But in fact the Government is doing the very opposite. It has hardly touched manpower and where it has, it has been manpower of a specialised variety. On the other hand, it has bitten deeply into the long lead equipment items - for example, DDLs and replacement for the Neptunes - so that the proportion of the defence vote spent on capital equipment has fallen to its lowest level ever. This is why we say that the Government is not fair dinkum, that it is motivated by ideological bias and not the proper defence of this nation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that on 19 October last year  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, wrote a letter to most people involved in the wine industry -in South Australia seeking funds for the Australian Labor Party election campaign to be given on the condition that a future Labor Government would 'abolish the (wine) excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition'? Is he also aware that last Friday  Mr Dunstan  in publicly stating that he had been placed in a position 'of acute embarrassment and dishonour' said: 'It was  Mr Whitlam  who authorised the statement I made to the wine industry'? 
I enter this debate briefly to add my condemnation to that so well expressed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and many other honourable members on this side of the House in relation to this legislation. I completely support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. I do this principally because virtually every measure which is contained in this Bill strikes at the very heart of productivity in Australia in the industries that are involved. If the Government had deliberately said: 'We are going to pursue a policy in this country of reducing to a minimum the rate of productivity increase of the economy and we will therefore go through legislation brought in by the previous Government and select those measures which will most achieve that particular objective, that is to strike at productivity' the Government could not have done better because this is precisely what it has done in discontinuing the investment allowance to secondary industry and to primary industry and the accelerated depreciation allowance for primary industry. 
How does this Government believe that the primary industries of this country have survived the frightful vicissitudes they have been through in the last 3 or 4 years? How does the Government believe that the primary industries of this country have kept their heads above water without wholesale liquidation in a situation in which costs have been constantly rising and, except for the last .12 or 18 months, prices have been low on world markets? How does the Government believe that has been achieved? It has been achieved in one way only. It has been achieved because a prudent and sensible government introduced measures which enabled the primary industries of this country to increase their productivity, to cut costs and to offset the disadvantage of the cost price squeeze. Many of the primary industries were not able to keep completely ahead even then. But there were enormous additions to the infrastructure of the primary industries in Australia in the way of buildings, machinery, plant, fencing and everything else that was produced on the farms of Australia as a result of the incentives on inputs provided by the previous Government. This is what has enabled primary industries to survive. This is what has enabled them to withstand droughts which have occurred periodically throughout Australia and will always occur throughout Australia. 
I remember well the expression used by  Sir John  McEwen when he introduced the drought bonds scheme. He said, in effect: 'We are going to provide certain sections of farmers - the people in the pastoral zone - with a stack of money to equal the stack of grain, fodder or feed which we have provided by way of our incentives in the higher rainfall areas in the south of Australia'. It is these incentives which have enabled the farmers to survive these droughts and to survive the vicissitudes which will always be a problem for the man on the land. It is self-defeating and short-sighted of this Government to take away incentives which produce that situation because inevitably next time a drought occurs the farmers will not have provided the reserves of fodder, dams and so on which they provided when these incentives existed. The Government will find itself up for millions of dollars in drought relief which otherwise would not have been necessary. 1 condemn the Government for that. 
I principally want to use the few minutes remaining to me to add to the remarks of many members on this side of the House who have criticised the Government for its breach o: faith to the wine industry. This goes far beyond the damage that has been done to a particular industry. As  Mr Dunstan  put it, it goes to the very heart of the honour of the Government itself. Have we reached a situation in this country where governments regard it as the normal pattern of conduct to dishonour election promises specifically given? That is the issue which this matter brings up, quite apart from the effect which it will have on the wine industry without a shadow of a doubt; but other honourable members have traversed that ground. In particular it was covered magnificently the other night by my friend, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who knows the wine industry better than any other member in this House. But when I talk about honour, when I talk about Government promises, I am not speaking as a party political antagonist of the Government. The Opposition is not relying on that particular assertion. 
I asked the Prime Minister a question in the House today about statements made by  Mr Dunstan  last Friday. He avoided giving an answer to that question by referring to answers to questions which were given in the Senate a couple of months ago. This was meant to imply that in some way the honourable member for Angas and I were out of date, that the senators have been ahead of us. This was his way of sliding and getting round the question and not directly answering it. But there was a new factor in the situation; the damage done to the wine industry had not gone away, so the question of our bringing it up now in relation to this legislation is still valid from that point of view. But there was another factor which the Prime Minister chose to avoid, a new one, one that did not exist when the senators he referred to raised the matter in questions on notice in the Senate. The new factor was that it was only last Friday that  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, chose to speak out in the manner he did. I want to place on the record what  Mr Dunstan  said because, as I say, this is not a party political attack by us; it is an attack by the Premier of South Australia on his own Prime Minister. Everything I have to say is reported in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' in inverted commas. The report states: 
At the request of the Prime Minister and on behalf of the Labor Party I gave an assurance at the last Federal election that the SOc a gallon excise duty on wine would be repealed and not replaced with another impost', he said. 
It has been replaced with 2 imposts which are worse than the excise itself.' 
He then goes on to deal with what they are. The report then continues: 
When the Prime Minister's rejection of them became public yesterday representatives of the industry had gone to see him with copies of the letter in hand. 
That is the letter that has been referred to that he wrote to many people in the industry to obtain funds during the election. The report goes on: 
I have been placed in a position no politician should be placed in by his colleagues',  Mr Dunstan  said. I resent that position. 
A political promise made by a party going into office should be kept.' 
I agree with him. A political promise made by a political party going into office should be kept. The report goes on: 
It was  Mr Whitlam  who authorised the statement I made to the wine industry. 
I would have thought that in any regard for me personally, apart from anyone else, he would have honoured the promise I made on his behalf and at his behest. 
It is not a thing I- that is  Mr Dunstan,  as a leader and an honourable man - would have done to anyone else in any circumstances.' 
I have been placed in a position of acute embarrassment and dishonour,' he said. 
I don't believe a politician should ever go to the public and cynically make a promise he knows cannot be kept.' 
It is this Government, the Whitlam Government, that  Mr Dunstan  is saying those things about. He said: 
I don't believe a politician should ever go to the public and cynically make a promise he knows cannot be kept. 
The report goes on: 
When he had reminded the Prime Minister of his promise to S.A. at the election,  Mr Whitlam  had replied: 'Frank Crean has had a difficult time'. 

 Mr Dunstan said  Mr Whitlam  had not told him all the details of this weeks announcement. 
I will not take this any further. I have agreed to sit down after 12 minutes. I will just say again that I cannot imagine a worse charge levelled at any government than the charge that  Mr Dunstan  makes in such trenchant and specific terms in the statement that he made on Friday. 
I wish to make some preliminary observations on this matter. I feel that I cannot do anything else but make preliminary observations, because the Minister's statement and the report, which all honourable members realise is not only a large document but also a most complex one, came into my hands only a few hours ago. So, to give proper consideration to and to express a point of view on the details of the report would be quite impossible. I assume that, on a matter as important as this, which involves such great complexity and is so vital to the security of the country, the Government would want to have a full and adequate debate at some stage. It should not be necessary to make that observation, but I am mindful of the fact that the Government has permitted the Opposition little time to debate defence matters. 
The Minister made a major statement, the House will recall, on about 21 August. That statement gets further and further down on the notice paper as every day passes. The House will also recall that, although initially it was programmed that we would have 3 hours to debate the defence estimates, the debate was cut off after a little over one hour during which only two or three Opposition speakers were allowed 10 minutes each, the remainder of the time being taken up by the Minister in defending his very sorry record in the defence field. I hope that on this report, which as I said is of extraordinary complexity and which became available to me and to other members only a couple of hours ago and since the Minister made his statement a few minutes ago, the Government will later permit full and adequate debate. 
The Opposition fully supports the integration of the defence group of departments, and I place that on record. We regard the integration of the defence group of departments as a logical extension of the process that started when the Morshead Committee report was brought down. Although the Government of the day for what were considered to be very good reasons which were not supported by me - I was one of the members who advocated the implementation of the Morshead Committee report - did not adopt the report, the Minister's attempt to suggest that nothing was done with regard to the recommendations of the Morshead report is incorrect. The process that led to this point today started at that time, because the directives which the Prime Minister of the day issued gave to the Minister for 
Defence and the Department of Defence greater powers and control than they had ever had. The process whereby over the years the Department has been able to exercise more and more control started from that point. I regard the final step of the integration of the defence group of departments as the logical extension of that process. 
Having made that point firmly, I do not wish to imply that it necessarily means - in fact, it does not mean - that we support the details of these proposals. We have had no opportunity to decide whether we do or do not support them. The details of these matters, particularly where they affect the control of the Parliament, ministerial control, and the proper role of the Services - both the uniformed arms and the civilians - are allimportant because, unless you get the details and the relative responsibilities right and unless each part of what my colleague the member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  recently referred to as a diarchy are in accord, the whole thing will not work. 
It will not work, for instance, in the context of major Service resentment of the situation that has been created. The Minister has made certain statements about the degree to which the proposals are supported by the Chiefs of Staff and by previous Chiefs of Staff. I have hardly had time to study the detailed reservations expressed in the report, but it is obvious that there are reservations on the part of the uniformed branch of the Services about the detailed proposals. So, unless these reservations can be resolved satisfactorily and unless after we study the details of the proposal we come to the conclusion that they have been properly resolved, we must conclude that the proposal will not work. That applies only to what the Minister has said and to the polite and guarded language in the report. If one goes to the newspaper reports of Service attitudes that have gradually begun to leak out, and which will no doubt leak out to an even greater degree from now on, it would appear that Service opposition to these matters may be even greater than is indicated in the Minister's statement to the House. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was making the point as to how important it was in relation to these far-reaching proposals for re-organising the Defence group of departments for the Ser vices to believe that they have a proper role in the organisation in relation to their expertise, status, training and so on. So far, we have not had the slightest opportunity to judge whether the proposal which the Minister has put down complies with that requirement. I was making the point that although the Opposition supports in general terms the integration of the Defence group of departments it is the details in respect of this which are all important, and giving our general approval to the proposals does not imply that we agree with the details. We cannot come to a conclusion about that until we have had time to study them. The point I am making is that already reports of differences have been filtering through in the Minister's statements, in the report of the Secretary of the Department of Defence and even more so in Press reports. These indicate that there are many people in the Services who are very unhappy about these arrangements. The role that uniformed personnel have 'been given adds to the point I was making earlier, that unless uniformed members of the Services can be satisfied that they have a proper role, the amalgamation of the departments will not work. 
This aspect has a number of consequences. The first is that the legislation to which the Minister for Defence refers, defining the responsibilities of the Chief of the Defence Services Staff and . others, is absolutely vital because, given the innate suspicion of the Services of the Department of Defence and the civilian members of the Department of Defence, the Services will not be satisfied that their role is properly implemented and protected unless it is there in black and white in the legislation. As a second consequence, it is absolutely vital that anybody who is interested, but particularly the uniformed members of the Services, have the opportunity of presenting a point of view before this Parliament finally debates the legislation. In these circumstances, I want to place on record on behalf of the Opposition that it appears to us to be both dangerous and unwise that the Government appears to be proposing to start to implement this scheme before legislation has been passed by the Parliament or even brought into the Parliament. The legislation is not to be brought into the Parliament until the autumn session. It might not see the light of day for 6 months and yet, as I understand it from the Minister's statement, this reorganisation  is to go  ahead immediately. I believe that if the Minister does follow that course of action he will have cause to regret it. 
As I understand it, this was not the Government's original intention. My understanding from the original statement made in December last year was that the details of the reorganisation and the legislation relating to it were to be brought in at the same time. The Minister promised that he would have this legislation through the Parliament in 12 months. I thought at the time that he was being optimistic, knowing what a complex drafting job the legislative aspect of this proposal was, and I said so publicly. But no doubt because he does not want to be accused of breaking yet another promise on defence, the Minister has made this statement today, ahead of the legislation which is so vital to it. 
In respect of the other aspect that I mentioned, namely, that it is vital that the uniformed servicemen have the opportunity of presenting a point of view before this Parliament finally agrees on the legislation, I believe that there would be a great deal of merit in the Minister referring this matter to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The Government has taken other initiatives in relation to this matter, but this would give people an opportunity to make their feelings known. I have had another look at the charts. I have not had the opportunity of reading the report itself, but from just a preliminary reading of the chart I have seen that there are a tremendous number of servicemen in Australia who will see the proposed amalgamation of the Defence Departments as setting up an organisation designed to have a whole lot of civilians with their feet firmly placed on the neck of the servicemen in relation to matters which they will regard as being of particular importance to them, particularly in the case where reservations have been made, namely, the field of manpower. 
I am saying to the Minister for Defence that if he wants to see this proposal work smoothly and if he ultimately wants the acceptance of his legislation by the Parliament, it would be a wise course for him to use this Committee, which the Government took the initiative of setting up, to investigate the matter thoroughly. Quite apart from anything else, this is desirable because the matter is so complex. I think the Minister will agree that this is a matter of extreme complexity. If the members of this Parliament are to have any understanding of what they are agreeing to, both in the proposals that the Minister has announced and in the legislation which will be brought before the House, they will have to be able to go through that sort of operation. But I put my main emphasis on the point that the Minister will not receive the support of the Services unless the members of the Services have an opportunity to present their point of view to members of the Parliament. If the Minister does not have the support of the Services, his proposal will not work and he will have to climb down, as McNamara had to climb down in America, and so on. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
The only thing I would say in relation to the contribution made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  tonight is that I will leave him to go back and explain to his constituents and to Queenslanders generally why the Government which he supports is introducing a proposal to require Queenslanders to pay 1.35 per cent of their taxable income for services which will be no better or no greater than those they receive as of right at present for precisely nothing and, indeed, services which will be worse, because those services, despite the extra money - -some extra money may flow to them - that will be made available, as has been explained on this side of the House, will have to be shared by a much larger number of people. But that is his problem, not mine. Before saying something on this Bill, I extend my congratulations to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who led for the Opposition in this debate this afternoon in a speech whose constructiveness, clarity and forcefulness I have seldom heard equalled in this House. I believe that in the quality of that speech he has made a great contribution to the cause of something which many Australians hold dear. 
People all around Australia are saying today and have been saying for many weeks now: Why, why, why?' Why is the Government trying to throw out a health scheme which the overwhelming majority of them have found perfectly satisfactory, which has given them good quality health care at reasonable cost, with freedom of choice of doctor, hospital and health insurance fund, and with speed and compassion, and in which they have genuine confidence? However much the Government may protest to the contrary, however much it may twist and distort figures and however much it may emphasise individual cases and incidents and attempt to make people believe that black is white and white is black, this has been the experience of the overwhelming majority of- Australians. This is why the Government is worried; this is why it has been backtracking and backing down; this is why the scheme contained in this Bill is a tattered, disreputable remnant of the scheme it started out with. The Government has begun to realise that the Australian people, most of whom have found the existing scheme completely satisfactory, have risen up in anger as they have come to understand more clearly the implications of the Government's intentions. 
The Ministry for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has said that these attitudes have been based on a campaign of misrepresentation. I throw that back in the Minister's teeth. If we are to talk about misrepresentation, which is a polite word for lying, let me say that this Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  have, in relation to health, engaged in a campaign of misrepresentation which, in intensity and duration, equals any similar exercise in Australian political history. 
For 5 years the Government has lied and lied and lied. 
I will have more to say about that in a moment. It is because the Government has become conscious of the fact that the Australian people have seen through its barrage of propaganda that it has been frightened into throwing the public a bone in the form of the so-called White Paper. The Minister has represented the White Paper as proof of his readiness to listen to public opinion, to be flexible and to compromise - a triumph for open government. The theme of the White Paper is that people can get all the advantages of the present scheme and more besides - or rather, that is the impression it is designed to convey. I have no hesitation in saying that it is a dishonest document. It is deliberately designed to mislead. To the extent that it gives specific undertakings that have been translated into this legislation - for example, the apparent climb-down on bulk billing - it undermines the very objectives which we were told so often it was essential to achieve if Australia was to have an efficient health scheme. 
Has the Minister forgotten how often he has railed against the administrative costs of the present health funds and used these administrative costs as the justification for wiping out the funds and establishing one great big monolithic, bureaucratic, government run fund? Has he forgotten that he has given bulk billing as the major means of saving administrative costs? Of course, he was right - although I might mention in passing that exactly the same savings in administrative costs could be achieved by introducing bulk billing in the context of the existing health funds. My point here is not to debate the merits or otherwise of bulk billing - my colleagues have done that admirably - but to emphasise that administrative savings were to be one of the great achievements of the Labor scheme; that bulk billing was to be the principal means of achieving it. Yet virtually all the measures designed to make bulk billing a widespread practice have temporarily, anyway, been abandoned. The Government has backed down on one of the elements which it told us made its scheme incomparably better than the present one; this basic principle has evaporated. No wonder the electorate distrusts the Government. 
There are other climb-downs in the same category in the White Paper. That is, the Government does something specific, translates it into the legislation to allay criticism, and at the same time abandons basic principles which were supposed to be of such fundamental importance that they justified the introduction of an entirely new and radical scheme. With these we know where we are. But there is another category of statements in the White Paper which is far more dangerous because the statements do not appear in the legislation. They cannot appear in it because they are only vague expressions of intention or belief that particular things which have worried people will work out in the way those worried people would like them to work out. 
I will explain what I mean,  Sir, in  this way: Despite the soothing words in the White Paper, there is no guarantee either in it or in the legislation that there will be sufficient standard ward beds for the people who want them when they want them; there is absolutely no guarantee that their doctor will be able to follow them into hospital even if they happen to be attached to the visiting staff; there is absolutely no guarantee that private hospitals will remain in existence still less the subsidised community hospitals in my own State; there is absolutely no guarantee that large numbers of able specialists will not be forced out of private practice into salaried public service by economic deprivation; and there is absolutely no assurance that in the absence of Government support for the special account in particular and other forms of Commonwealth assistance in general, insurance cover for private hospital treatment will not be prohibitively expensive as to be out of the range of all but a very wealthy few. 
I could go on with this list, but the items on it all have one thing in common - 'the White Paper makes reassuring noises about all of them which do not mean a damn thing. Given the record of this Minister and this Government over the last 12 months, the Australian people would be extremely unwise to listen to or to heed reassuring noises of any description. Still less is this so if we consider the record of the present Prime Minister, the present Minister for Social Security and honourable members opposite in general over the last 5 years. I said a moment ago that they have misrepresented and misrepresented and misrepresented the situation in order to establish their scheme as a significant initiative in the public mind. Their tactics were clear: In order to clear the way for acceptance of their scheme they would denigrate the existing scheme and everybody associated with it, including myself as Minister for part of the lime - that was probably the only part of the denigration that was justified; the health funds and the people associated with them; the doctors; the private hosiptall; the profit making nursing homes; the State governments - you name them. If they were associated with our scheme, the present scheme, they came under the most vicious attack. Truth, objectivity and the personal reputations of large numbers of people were the casualties. 
I have constantly asked myself why all this was necessary if Labor's own scheme was as good as honourable members opposite said it was. Looking back I think I understand. The original scheme was not the Whitlam-Hayden scheme - it was conceived by 2 young economists, Deeble and Scotton. Not unnaturally, being economists, the financial aspects dominated their thinking. It was only by constructing a scheme that was virtually entirely tax financed that, as they saw it, you could control health costs that were burgeoning everywhere in the world. That is how the United Kingdom has been able to keep expenditure on health below 5 per cent of the gross national product. This was undoubtedly their model, although it was of course adapted to Australian conditions and Labor Party political prejudices. Everything else followed, particularly the large degree of uniformity, government control and dragging everybody and everything down to the lowest level which the Australian people have found so objectionable. In other words it was nationalisation in fact, if not in name. 
Deeble and Scotton sold this scheme to the ALP lock, stock and barrel. It emerged as ALP policy without a change of a dot on an T or a cross on a 't'. Deeble and Scotton did not have to work very hard to sell it. It appealed to the Labor Party's opportunist instincts. The voluntary health scheme was going through a bad patch. There was some public dissatisfaction with the benefits it provided while the Government was waiting for the Nimmo Committee to complete its work and the next great step forward could be taken. What better environment could there be into which to launch this deceptively simple, superficially appealing and apparently cheaper scheme? It appealed not only to their opportunist instincts but also to their socialist instincts. We must remember that it was essentially the British scheme. It was entirely or almost entirely, tax financed, but it was wrapped in tinsel to disguise its socialist origins. It made some headway in the public mind, not on its merits, because the realities were hidden from the public gaze, but on the constant reiteration by the present Prime Minister that the then current difficulties of the voluntary health scheme were inherent in the scheme itself. 
I do not have to remind the House how the 1970 reforms, following on the acceptance by the then Government of most of the Nimmo Committee recommendations, gave the complete lie to that assertion. We were able to produce the present arrangements which so many Australians have found so sensitively attuned to their health care needs without abandoning the basic principles of voluntary health insurance. Almost overnight the main arguments on which the Labor Party based its proposition for a substitute scheme disappeared. Faced with this position - with the ground cut from under their feet - the present Prime Minister and the present Minister for Social Security decided to bluff it out - to misrepresent and misrepresent and misrepresent everything about the defects of the present scheme and the elements of their own scheme. 
Let me give the House one example of each type of misrepresentation. Firstly, there are the health funds. I defy the Minister to deny that he and the Prime Minister quite deliberately set out to denigrate the health funds and that he set out to create in the public mind that the funds were profit making institutions operating for their own benefit, that the large number of closed and friendly society funds were a source of extravagance and inefficiency and that they squandered money on excessive promotion and selfindulgence. I defy them to deny that at the time they said these things they knew them to be untrue. Let me take another example, this time from their own scheme. They have asserted constantly that it does not mean the nationalisation of medicine. Yet they know - indeed they have boasted - that under their scheme many more patients will enter the public wards of public hospitals. There will be 900 more beds in Victoria alone. 
They have told us that the occupants of these beds will be treated by salaried or sessionally paid doctors, not on a fee for service basis. They know that most specialists in private practice depend on the fees they are paid for services rendered to patients in intermediate or private wards and in private hospitals for the major part of their income. 
They know that the more people cease to be private and become public patients, the more specialists will be forced by economic necessity to become salaried doctors. If this is not nationalisation, I do not know what it is. They have said again and again that their scheme does not mean nationalisation. They know that to be untrue. 
I want to conclude by quoting what I said in a speech that I made a few years ago. I said: 
We want a health insurance scheme in which the citizen is always treated as an individual human being and not just as a cog in a medical care machine. We want a scheme in which his feelings, his convenience, even his idiosyncracies, are respected, in which he always remains a person and not just an illness or a cipher on a computer card. We also want a system which encourages a degree of self reliance and which does not encourage the individual to rely entirely on the machinery of some monolithic government agency for care and sympathy - qualities which any bureaucracy, however well motivated its personnel, is ill equipped to provide. 
It is because the present scheme provides that and this one provides the very opposite that I oppose it with every force in my power. 
The Minister for Defence will remember that on a number of occasions he has quoted the advice of the Defence Forces Development Committee as justification for the Government's defence decisions. Can he say whether he .received the advice of this high level Committee prior to his decision to scrap the DDL project and to cancel the building of a fast combat support ship? If so, what was that advice? 
From listening to this debate and the previous debate it seems to me that despite the selfsatisfaction of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  there is a great deal of dissatisfaction among members of this Parliament about the proposition that the Minister put forward in relation to sitting hours which culminated in the particular matter before us - the cutting down of the time available to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House. This is evidenced by the number of members who have risen and spoken about the inconvenience it causes. 
We all understand the motive of the Minister. He wants to find more time to debate the Government's legislative program. That is his prime and fundamental motive. The rights of private members are not the first objective of the Minister. He is not interested, for instance, in providing the Opposition parties and the Opposition executive with time to consider properly legislation which is brought forward or to put their point of view during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. In fact his motive is the very opposite, however he wraps it up. 
I rose to make this point: Although I believe that the fundamental motive of the Minister is to use his numbers to benefit his own Party in this Parliament, there is also another motive and it is that motive that I want to say something about. I refer to the obsession of the Minister for upholding the reputation that he has obtained for closing Parliament down at 11 o'clock at night come what may. The Minister introduced this proposition and gained a certain amount of popularity for a while from some honourable members as a result of doing so. But I suggest that gradually, as time has gone by and as honourable members have seen what has flowed from this decision to close the Parliament down at 11 o'clock at night, an increasing number of people have been prepared to return to the old system under which we sat later if the Government's legislative program or the rights of private members demanded. More and more members would favour that course. 
I listened to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  say that the Parliament should rise at 10 o'clock at night. I do not know what sort of life other members of this Parliament lead in their electoral activities when they are not here in Canberra. Maybe the city majority of this Parliament are able to get home to bed regularly at 11 o'clock at night. 
All right, if that is true and the objective of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  in closing down the Parliament at 11 o'clock at night is not to preserve a life style to which he has become accustomed at other times, why distort the whole of the operations of this Parliament by closing it down at 11 o'clock? I accept the honourable member's point that I may be incorrect in suggesting that city members can get to bed at 11 o'clock at night. For my part, as a country member, my regular routine is to be at a meeting until midnight and then drive for three or four hours before getting to bed at 4 o'clock in the morning. There is no skin off my nose about sitting until 11.30 p.m. or midnight. If, as the honourable member for Banks just suggested, that is the experience of city members also, why are we distorting the whole pattern of sittings of this Parliament? Why are we talking about taking away the time available for private members on the motion for the adjournment? Why are we talking about taking away the rights of the parties to consider legislation properly? Why are we talking about taking away the right of the Opposition executives to form their point of view? This matter was raised in order to bolster the self-esteem of the Minister for Services and Property who came in and suggested this arbitrary time of 11 o'clock at night for the rising of the Parliament. 
In my view there is no justification for this proposition. It is the key point which has led to all the difficulties in which we find ourselves in respect to these particular proposals. If we did not close down the Parliament at 11 o'clock at night we would not have to sit at 11 o'clock on Tuesday mornings. I and some of my colleagues who live in far-flung areas would not be put to the disadvantages that we suffer. In particular, we could be more flexible about the time given for the debate on the motion for the adjournment so that honourable members who want to speak can do so. God knows, there was little enough time left for the debate on the motion for the adjournment in the last session of Parliament. Now it is proposed that there be a quarter of an hour less for no other reason than to satisfy the over-weening vanity of this - I was going to call him a clown,  Mr Speaker,  but you would regard that as unparliamentary - man, the Minister for Services and Property. As I have said, so that the Minister can maintain his reputation, the hours of this Parliament are being distorted and private members' rights are being taken away. In fact, what is hap pening in this Parliament and throughout the country is that our rights are being what I would call 'Whitlamised' away. 
I second the motion and associate my Party wholeheartedly with this motion of dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  On this, as in everything, the Opposition is completely united. We dissent from your ruling,  Sir, because  we believe that in this case you employed a double standard - one standard for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  by means of his office the powerful member of this House, and another standard for those of us on this side of the House. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  explained the facts. Let me briefly recapitulate them. 
Last Thursday the Prime Minister called the  Deputy  Leader a contemptible creature. He was not required to withdraw those words. Today the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  used the words 'Contemptible creature' and he was required to withdraw those words. He used them against the Prime Minister, which makes what has happened even worse. The honourable member for Macakellar  (Mr Wentworth)  raised a point of order on this issue after you had said that your attention was not drawn last Thursday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party to the use of those words by the Prime Minister. In other words,  Mr Speaker,  your defence in this situation, in which it is attempted to censure you this afternoon, was that your attention was not drawn to the words, a point of order was not taken or a personal explanation was not made and that in the case of the honourable member for Gippsland your attention was drawn to the use of the words. 
The honourable member for Mackellar took a point of order. He read out standing order 77. It says: 
When any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a Member who is addresing the Chair or by a Member who is present, the  Speaker  shall intervene. 
It says nothing whatsoever about your attention being drawn to it. I believe that you said to the honourable member for Mackellar that no point of order was involved. The Opposition believes that that point of order is extremely relevant. In your own right - without attention being drawn to a matter without complaint - you have an obligation to protect the interests, the rights, the good name and the characters of private members of this House. 
In a situation in which you have a mob of bullies on the other side led by the Prime Minister - people who are prepared, rather than to support the good name of this House, to use their numbers to support the bullying tactics of the Prime Minister and people like the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  - a very great responsibility rests on you. This House will be destroyed if you as  Speaker  are not prepared to exercise the sort of authority that you are given under that standing order to protect the rights of private members, and it will not be long before every member of this House, is cowed into a state of silence and submissiveness by these bullying tactics, used in an attempt to silence and prevent them from doing their duty by seeking to impugn their characters in the way in which the Prime Minister has been doing constantly since he occupied that office. For" all these reasons and because this is a great issue of principle the Opposition supports the motion of dissent from your ruling. 
 The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  for all his brave words, must be quivering in his shoes at the thought that his Leader might creep out to the Governor-General, in his usual style, and advise the Governor-General to call a House of Representatives election without consulting the honourable member. Nothing would terrify the honourable member for La Trobe more than a House of Representatives election at the present time because if there ever was a classic 'oncer' in this House it is the honourable member for La Trobe. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Address-in-Reply which I completely support. It is by way of censure of the Government that the Opposition has moved an amendment to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The Opposition, by this means, censures the Government. We censure it because its style pf government is irresponsible, vindictive, erratic, doctrinaire and sectional. We censure it for substituting public relations exercises for solid decision making and sound administration. Good national housekeeping is what Australia needs, above all, at present; it is what Australia needs desperately and it is what Australia has not got and will not get under this Government. We censure the Government for its distorted sense of priorities. It puts paternity leave for male public servants before defence; it puts the painting 'Blue Poles' before country telephones. Above all, as the amendment to the AddressinReply makes clear, we censure the Government for its failure to control inflation in this country. 
Inflation is running wild at an annual rate of, I was going to say, 14 per cent but I will accept the figure given by the honourable member for La Trobe of 13.2 per cent. There is not much difference between those figures. The rate of inflation will go higher this year. At this level inflation is tearing the guts out of the economic and moral fibre of the nation. The rewards are going to those with industrial muscle, while the little men, for whom honourable gentlemen opposite, the Labor Party, are supposed to stand, are being hit to leg. What has the Government contributed to this situation? It has presided over a 27 per cent increase in Government spending and a 7 per cent increase in the Public Service at a cost sufficient to provide a $2 a week increase to every pension recipient in Australia. The present Government has presided over a 14 per cent increase in wages, from which it has gathered in no less than SI 100m in increased income tax, which is a 25 per cent increase on 1972-73. This Government has presided over a 100 per cent increase in industrial disputes, in relation to the previous year. No single measure will cure inflation, but a government which is not prepared to exercise wage restaint or discipline its own spending is only trifling with the problem. The Government's failure to do anything about these 2 matters has led to an excessive reliance on monetary policy, with interest rates at penal levels, credit short and housing loans impossible to obtain for many people. 
In addition to the Government's attitude to inflation we condemn it for its attitude to country people. Because the Government is so sensitive about the issue of the removal of the superphosphate bounty it broke a longstanding convention which gives the Opposition the right to use the 2 hours available to it each week to discuss an urgency motion in the way that it chooses. The Government gagged the urgency motion on superphosphate and I was not permitted to speak. That was the latest example of the anti-rural bias of the Government. What was the Government's main defence? It said that the farmers had never had it so good and that in these circumstances they could afford to pay for the superphosphate themselves. According to the Prime Minister the bounty was economically indefensible. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  asked, in the debate: 'Do farmers want to be on the receiving end in every way?' The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  described opposition by farmers to the abolition of the bounty as a rather selfish attitude. 
That was a classic demonstration of the failure of the Government to realise just how deeply the rural recession had bitten and the mountain of debt it had left round the necks of farmers. That was an example of the failure of the Government to realise just how big a contribution the bounty had played in building up rural productivity. It was an example of the failure of the Government to be aware or take note of a report from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which made it clear that the usage of superphosphate is extremely sensitive to price. It was an example of the failure of the Government to take note of trends which will substantially increase the price of superphosphate to farmers irrespective of the question of the bounty. Lastly, it was an example of the failure of the Government to recognise the just entitlement of the rural sector to compensation for the effect on costs of tariff and other Government policies. That is why we condemn the Government in the amendment to the Address-in-Reply in the terms that it has injured rural industries and the communities they support. 
I want also to speak about that aspect of the amendment which relates to defence and which says that the Government has pursued defence and foreign policies which have seriously weakened our defence capacity. This indicates the deep distrust we feel about the Government's actions in the defence field. It is not only the cuts which the Government has made and which have been well publicised that concern the Opposition. God knows cuts are bad enough. Expenditure on defence has been reduced to 2.9 per cent of the gross national product in money terms; probably 2.5 per cent in real terms. The Army has been reduced by one-third so that it is now barely capable of putting 2 battalions in the field; its officers are resigning in droves and its reserves have been decimated. Our maritime capacity has been jeopardised by the Government's reluctance to make a decision about replacements for the Neptunes which are obsolete, uneconomic and kept flying only by tremendous technical efforts and spare parts that are dependent on cannibalisation. Our future maritime defence has been placed at risk by the scrapping of the DDL project with no substitute in sight. Our strategic mobility by sea is now nonexistent with not the slightest sign that the Government is concerned about it. I could go on with this sorry catalogue but it is well known to the House. 
It is the Government's style in defence matters which has nurtured and gained distrust. It has been a sorry catalogue of deceit, evasion and attempts to substitute debating points for rational argument. I suppose this is all right in the ordinary run of the mill activities of the Government but in no circumstances can it be justified when it concerns the security of the nation. Let me illustrate what I mean. A Government has an absolute right to establish its own priorities. If it gives a low priority to defence in relation to what it regards as other and more pressing needs for expenditure, I would be the last to dispute its right to do so. What I would dispute, however, is its right to say that these decisions flow from its defence advisers. This the Government has consistently done. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  did it in answer to a question from me the other"day. He knew then, the Government knows; that in almost every case when it has done, .this it has been untrue or partly untrue. 
Let me take as an example the strategic basis or strategic assessment which the Government uses so often to justify, the low priority it gives to defence. It is true that this is produced by the Government's . defence advisers. It may or may not be true that this document says that there is no discernible threat for the next 15 years, as the Minister for Defence has so often asserted. I say 'may or may not be true' advisedly because we have not seen the document. The Minister has quoted selectively from it. He has done it, but woe betide any public serevant who did it; he would be charged under the Crimes Act immediately. The Minister has done it; he has quoted selectively from it. But he has refused my request to peruse it on a confidential basis. That in itself inspires distrust, coming from a Minister who has so often trumpeted abroad his desire to brief Opposition spokesmen. But even if it is true that the conclusion in the document is that there is no discernible threat for 15 years, this does not mean that the Government's Defence advisers draw the same deductions about the shape of our forces as has the Government. Indeed, those who have been able to speak out, like Admiral Peek and General Brogan, have made it perfectly clear that they draw very different deductions. They know, as any person of common sense who has absorbed the lessons of history knows, that the fact that you cannot discern a threat does not mean there will not be a threat. Yet the Government has clearly implied that its defence advisers concur in the deductions that it has drawn from the strategic basis. This is plain deceit. Let the Government take responsibility for its own disastrous decisions and not impugn the good name of people who cannot answer for themselves. 
Let me give a specific illustration which confirms our suspicions that the Government has been using the strategic basis in a way it was never intended to be used. The Minister himself, at the Perth conference of the Returned Services League, and on other occasions, admitted that the document itself makes clear that the further you get away from the present, the less reliable were the forecasts that could be made. Yet on the basis that there is no threat the Government has cancelled, of all things, the DDL project. Had they been commenced on time - and because of this Government's action they were not - the DDLs would not have started to become available, would not have been commissioned as ships, until the early 1980s. These were the ships intended to provide for the uncertainties towards the end of the 15 years and to replace the Daring class destroyers which by that time will have reached the end of their life. Is it any wonder that we distrust the Government on defence? Is it any wonder that we suspect its motives? Are we not justified in saying that the Government has selected the DDLs for the axe for no other reason than they will cost a large amount of money and that the strategic assessment has nothing to do with it whatsoever? 
This ship was selected after the most vigorous examination of the requirement and the cost effectiveness of alternatives in Australian defence history. It is inconceivable that the requirement has changed or that a ship of some other design will meet the requirement. All that the Minister has told us is that the design is not 'the most appropriate solution'. There has been no explanation of why. All he does is mutter vaguely about an alternative destroyer program, strategic bases and - as he mentioned in answer to a question from me recently - the Fill. Whatever may have been said about the Fill, we have the finest aircraft of its type in the world as a deterrent to an aggressor, and a Government which gives such a low priority to defence spending must be darned glad and very relieved to have the Fill. 
Whatever may be said about the process by which the Fill was chosen, in no way can that be applied to the DDL which, I repeat, was submitted to the most vigorous examination of the requirement and the cost effectiveness of alternatives in Australian defence history. All the cheap smears about the Fill will not disguise the fact that by the time they are required in the early 1980s we will not have any ships at all. If we do, they will be manifestly unsatisfactory for the requirement and probably, in global terms, more costly as well. A ship of the DDL type is a major deterrent to threats to our maritime environment. What the Australian people need to understand is that as a result of the actions of this Government we will not have the DDL; we will not have that deterrent or anything like it, even if the Minister - as has been fed out in leaks to the 
Press in the last few days, hurriedly with the Senate election on his doorstep - orders some of these United States patrol frigates. They will not meet the requirement. 
We are talking of the early 1980s, but the position in which the Government has placed us is that our potential enemies know now what our situation will be in 7 or 8 years time. People have to understand that this is not a trivial matter, to be fobbed off by statements about its not being the appropriate solution, or cheap gibes about the Fill, or trusting in crystal ball gazing 15 years ahead. It is, or could be, a matter of life or death. We have put our potential enemies on notice that we will not have the capabilities that were to be provided by the DDL. I am advised that alternative ships cannot be provided in any other way in the time available. If the Minister believes otherwise, let him say so or have heaped upon him the censure of the Australian people which he and the Government undoubtedly deserve. 
I have had the report in my possession for only a couple of hours so obviously I have not had the opportunity to do anything except have a rather cursory look at the recommendations. I have been informed that  Dr Millar  asked for permission to brief me on the report and this was refused. The Minsiter for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  can correct that if- 
Well it might not have got to the Minister, but I am quite sure that  Dr Millar  was informed 'by someone in the Minister's office. We have become used to this sort of thing. I therefore think that it is vitally important that the debate should be resumed. I am glad to have the assurance of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that an opportunity will be given for a wide ranging debate at an early date, because there are a large number of members on this side of the House who have either themselves served in the Citizen Military Forces, which is now to be known as th: Australian Army Reserve, or who in the past have had ministerial responsibility for the CMF and have wrestled with its problems. 
I must at this stage make a few preliminary remarks about what the Minister had to say. 
First of all, I must condemn the Minister for his disgraceful statement - it is one of the worst I have ever heard by any Minister in 18 years in this House - when he accused the people who exercised the Citizen Military Forces option to national service as being motivated by a desire to avoid active service. These were people who were informed by the duly elected government of the country at the time that if they exercised the CMF option to national service they would be behaving in an honourable way and in the interests of the defence of the country. This was done and the option was brought in deliberately to bolster the numbers in the CMF. Yet the Minister chooses to accuse the people who exercised the option in the light of that statement by the duly elected government of the country virtually of being cowards. 
That is what it means when he says 'motivated by a desire to avoid active service'. What else is it but an accusation of cowardice by those people who took the words of the duly elected government of the day at their face value and exercised that option? Many country people, because of the problems of running a single unit property, felt that they could not afford to be away from their farms for 2 years. They joined the highly successful Bushmen's Rifles. The Minister is saying that they were motivated by cowardice. I throw that statement back in his teeth, and everybody on this side of the House throws it back in his teeth. Having said that, the Minister also gave his version of the reasons for the present state of the CMF. Let me give the House another and, I believe, more accurate one. The reckless act of the Minister and his Government of eliminating national service in one stroke wrecked not only the Australian Regular Army but also the CMF. The Minister might or might not have had a mandate to eliminate national service. 
I am talking about the way the Minister went about it. He did not have a mandate to wreck either the Regular Army or the CMF, and that is what he did. As a result of that immediate action, rather than reviewing the situation and making alternative arrangements, the CMF lost approximately 9,000 men overnight and became non-viable, to use the words of General Brogan, the pre vious Chief of the General Staff. I am putting forward an alternative reason for the current state of the CMF. Having destroyed the CMF and having made it non-viable, the Government set up the Millar Committee in April 1973  -  nearly a year ago. Since that time the Committee has been used as an excuse for doing nothing in relation to the CMF. For instance, conditions of service have fallen further and further behind conditions for the Australian Regular Army. I have written to the Minister about this and his reply has been that the Government will do nothing until it receives the report of the Millar Committee. 
For nearly 18 months the Government has left the CMF bleeding to death from the wound that it caused. This is all the more incredible because, the ARA having been destroyed as an effective fighting force, the state of the CMF became even more important than it had been previously. That being so, we find from the Minister's statement that the Government still has no sense of urgency. The Minister has used words which suggest a Government commitment to the CMF, as he always does when he is talking about defence, but as always those words are not action - they are a substitute for action. He has announced a few minor decisions and he has given a strong commitment to the reorganisation proposals, but on the most important proposals he is silent. It is easy to understand why. Those proposals cost money. It is easy enough to accept recommendations which do not cost money, but these ones in relation to conditions of service cost money, and money is something that this Government is not prepared to find for defence. 
The reorganisation and amalgamation proposals are controversial and require mature consideration and consultation. The proposals on conditions of service are not controversial and are absolutely vital if the CMF is to get the numbers to make any organisation work - whether it is the one proposed in this report or the existing one. Yet the Government is completely silent after waiting for 18 months and doing nothing. It has not even done what would normally be done to keep up with adjustments in conditions of service. How much longer will the Government remain silent? Until it announces decisions the CMF will continue to bleed to death, despite the Minister's brave words. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 Ever since the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  took up his portfolio he has been defending the country with words and very little else. He added formidably to that record this afternoon with 28 more pages of words in his swan song as Minister; for Defence. When this Government took office the S-year rolling program for equipment provision set in motion by the previous Government ceased to roll. It got stuck. Decisions made by the Government last Sunday have not been announced in this House until today. ' The Minister rushed out ' of a Cabinet meeting and announced the Government's decisions to the Press on Sunday night, and it has taken until today for the Department of Defence officers to write the statement that he made today. 
 I do not propose to pursue the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in his unending vendetta against his own profession, except to say that it confirms the impression that I have had for a very long time that one of the principal motivating forces in the introduction of this scheme is the innate hostility that the Australian Labor Party has for the medical profession. The last thing that motivates it is the welfare of the patient. Since this measure was last debated there have been very large increases in hospital and medical costs, with large increases in fees foreshadowed in both areas. In these circumstances, and in view of the tendency of some sections of the media to suggest that in some way these problems would be solved by the provisions of the Labor Party's scheme - I noticed another ignorant and feeble-minded editorial along these lines in the 'Age' earlier this week - it is well to remind the House and the country that this scheme, this legislation, contains no solution to the problem of rising medical fees. It contains no solution to the problem of soaring hospital costs. On these questions the Bills are silent. They have no remedy at all. 
If the new scheme, if it comes into being, should provide better protection to individuals at the lowest level of cover against these rising costs than the present scheme does, it will be because the Government has shamefully neglected to play its part in providing Commonwealth benefits under the existing scheme. In a cynical, despicable exercise this Government, to discredit the existing scheme and gain support for its own scheme, has deliberately exploited the sick, the suffering and the ill in a way which can only be described as a national scandal. Even the lesser cost to the individuals, I submit, would be illusory. In the absence of constructive proposals to hold down medical and hospital costs - as I have said, there are none - the cost has to be met by somebody. To the extent that it is not met by the 1.35 per cent levy - I ask how long it will remain at 1.35 per cent - it will be met by the same individuals as taxpayers. What a wonderful result for all the disruption, reduction in freedom of choice and decline in standards of health care that will occur under Labor's health scheme. 
Because the argument about this measure has been going on for a long time and there is a danger that the true issues have become obscured, I want to say something about the events which have led us to the point at which we find ourselves today. When this Government came to office in December 1972 people started to get frightened with the imminent introduction of its health scheme. They started to react. The Government found that people all round Australia were asking why the Government was trying to change a health scheme which the overwhelming majority of them have found to be perfectly satisfactory. It has given them good quality health care at reasonable cost, with freedom of choice, of doctor, of hospital and health insurance fund, with speed and compassion. It is a scheme in which they have genuine confidence. However much the Government may protest to the contrary, however much it may twist and distort figures, however much it may emphasise individual cases and incidents and attempt to make people believe that black is white, this has been the experience of the overwhelming majority of Australians. This is why the Government became worried. This is why it started backtracking and backing down, why the scheme contained in this Bill is a tattered, disreputable remnant of the scheme it started out with. It has begun to realise that the Australian people, most of whom, as I say, have found the existing scheme to be completely satisfactory, have risen up in anger as they have come to understand more clearly the implications of the Government's intentions. 
The reaction of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was to say that these attitudes had been based on a campaign of misrepresentation. I throw that back into the Minister's teeth. If we are going to talk about misrepresentation then this Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  have engaged, in relation to health matters, in a campaign of misrepresentation which, in intensity and duration, equals any similar exercise in Australian political history. For 5 years now they have misrepresented, misrepresented and misrepresented again. I will have more to say about that in a moment. 
It was bcause they had become conscious of the fact that the Australian people had seen through their barrage of propaganda that they were frightened into throwing the public a bone - a bone in the form of the so-called White Paper. The Minister has represented the White Paper as proof of his readiness to listen to public opinion, to be flexible, to compromise - a triumph for open government. Its theme is that all of the advantages of the present scheme and more besides can be achieved - or rather that is the impression it is designed to convey. I have no hesitation in saying that it is a dishonest document. It is deliberately designed to misrepresent, and does so to the extent that it gives specific undertakings which have been translated into this legislation. For example, I refer to the climbdown in relation to bulk billing, which undermines the very objectives which we have been told so often it was essential to achieve if Australia was to have an efficient health scheme. 
Has the Minister forgotten how often he has railed against the administrative costs of the present health funds and used them as the justification for wiping out those funds and establishing one great, big, bureaucratic health fund? Has he forgotten how often he has given bulk billing as the main source of saving administrative costs? Of course, he was right, although I might mention in passing that exactly the same saving in administrative costs, if it were desirable, could be achieved by introducing bulk billing in the context of the existing health funds. But my purpose is not to debate here the merits or otherwise of bulk billing but to emphasise that administrative savings were to be one of the great achievements of the Labor scheme and that bulk billing was to be the principal means of achieving that end. Yet virtually all of the measures designed to make bulk billing a widespread practice have been abandoned. The Government has backed down on one of the elements which it told us made its scheme incomparably better than the present one. This basic principle has evaporated. It has gone; it is not in the scheme. 
There are other climb-downs in the same category in the White Paper, that is, the Government does something specific which is translated into the legislation in order to allay criticism and, at the same time, abandons basic principles which were supposed to be of such fundamental importance that they justified the introduction of a new scheme. We know where we are in relation to these particular matters, but there is another category of statement in the White Paper which is far more dangerous. It is more dangerous because the matters covered do not appear in the legislation. They cannot because they are only vague expressions of intention or be lief that particular things which have worried people will work out in the way in which those worried people would like them to work out. In other words, it is a snow job. 
Let me explain what I mean by way of example. Despite the soothing words in the White Paper there is no guarantee either in it or in the legislation that there will be sufficient standard ward beds for the people who want them when they want them. There is absolutely no guarantee that a doctor will be able to follow his patient into hospital, even if the doctor happens to be attached to the visiting staff. There is absolutely no guarantee that private hospitals will remain in existence, and still less guarantee in relation to subsidised community hospitals in my own State. There is absolutely no guarantee that large numbers of able specialists will not be forced out of private practice into salaried public service by economic deprivation. There is absolutely no assurance in the legislation that, in the absence of Government support for the special account in particular and other forms of Commonwealth Government assistance in general, insurance cover for private hospital treatment will not be so prohibitively expensive as to be out of the range of all but the very wealthy few. I could go on with this list but the items on it all have one thing in common. The White Paper makes reassuring noises about all of them, which does not mean a damned thing. Given the record of this Minister and this Government over the past 12 months, the Australian people would be extremely unwise to listen to or to heed reassuring noises of any description. 
This is even more true if we consider the record of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security over the last 5 years. I said a moment ago that they have misrepresented, misrepresented and misrepresented again in order to establish their scheme as a significant initiative in the public mind. Their tactics were clear: In order to clear the way for acceptance of their scheme they would denigrate the existing scheme and everybody associated with it. They set out to denigrate the health funds and the people associated with them, the doctors, the private hospitals, the profitmaking nursing homes, the State governments - you name it. Whoever was associated with the voluntary health scheme  caw  under the mr.-.t icious attack. Truth, objectivity and th. personal reputation of large number* people were the casualties. 
I have constantly asked myself why all of this was necessary if the Government's own scheme was as good as the Government said it was. Looking back, 1 think I understand. The original scheme was not the WhitlamHayden scheme; it was conceived by 2 young economists, Deeble and Scotton. Not unnaturally, being economists, the financial aspects dominated their thinking. It was only by constructing a scheme which was virtually entirely tax financed that there could be control of health costs which were burgeoning everywhere in the world. That is how the United Kingdom has been able to keep expenditure on health below 5 per cent of the gross national product. The British scheme was undoubtedly their model, although of course it was adapted to Australian conditions and to Labor Party political prejudices. Everything else followed, particularly the large degree of uniformity, government control and the dragging down of everybody and everything to the lowest level, which the Australian people will find so objectionable if this scheme comes into being. In other words, it is nationalisation, in fact if not in name. Deeble and Scotton sold this scheme to the Labor Party lock, stock and barrel. It emerged as Labor Party policy without a change of a dot on an 'i' or a cross on a 'f. Deeble and Scotton did not have to work terribly hard to sell their scheme. It appealed to the Labor Party's opportunist instincts. 
The voluntary health scheme was going through a bad patch. There was some public dissatisfaction with the benefits it provided at the time when the Government was waiting for the Nimmo Committee to complete its work and the next great step forward could be taken. What better environment in which to launch this deceptively simple, superficially appealing and apparently cheaper scheme. It appealed not only to their opportunist instincts but also to their socialist instincts. Remember, it was essentially the British scheme - it was entirely tax financed - but it was wrapped in tinsel to disguise its socialist origins. It made some headway in the public mind, not on its merits, because the realities were hidden from the public gaze, but on the constant reiteration by the present Prime Minister that the then current difficulties of the voluntary health scheme were inherent in the scheme itself. I do not have to remind the House how the 1970 reforms following the acceptance by the then Government of most of the Nimmo Committee's recommendations gave the complete lie to that assertion. We were able to produce the present arrangements which so many Australians have found so sensitively attuned to their health care needs, without abandoning the basic principle of voluntary health insurance. Almost overnight, the arguments on which the Labor Party based its proposition for a substitute scheme disappeared. 
Faced with this position and with the ground cut from under their feet the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security decided to bluff it out and to misrepresent and misrepresent and misrepresent again. They decided to misrepresent the defects of the present scheme and to misrepresent the elements of their own scheme - in other words, the Goebbels technique. Let me give the House one example of each. Firstly, I refer to the health funds. I defy the Minister to deny that he and the Prime Minister quite deliberately set out to denigrate the health funds; that they set out to create in the public mind the impression that the health funds were profit making institutions operating for their own benefit; and that the large number of closed and friendly society funds were a source of extravagance and inefficiency and that they squandered money on excessive promotion and selfindulgence. I defy them to deny that at the time they said these things they knew them to be untrue. 
Let me take another example, this time from their own scheme. They have constantly asserted that it does not mean the nationalisation of medicine. And yet they know - indeed, they have boasted - that under their scheme many more patients will enter the public wards of public hospitals. The Minister said it in his second reading speech yesterday. They have told us that the occupants of these beds will be treated by salaried or sessionary paid doctors, not on a fee for service basis. They know that most specialists in private practice depend on the fees they are paid for services rendered to patients in intermediate or private wards and private hospitals for the major part of their income. They know that the more people cease to be private and become public patients, the more specialists will be forced by economic necessity to become salaried doctors. If this is not nationalisation, I do not know what it is. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security have said again and again that their scheme does not mean nationalisation. They know that to be untrue. This scheme deserves to be thrown out because it was conceived in deceit and perpetuated by misrepresentations unequalled in Australian history. 
My question is to the Minister for Defence. I refer to  Mr Hawke's  latest demonstration of his power to dictate the policies of this Government, that is, the reversal of the Government's announced decision to run down the work force in certain defence factories in the absence of orders to keep them properly employed. Will the Minister say whether this will be paid for out of the already inadequate defence vote or will additional finance be made available to appease  Mr Hawke?  When does the Minister intend to apprise the House of the Government's plans, if it has any, for the control and future of the whole range of defence industries? 
-The proceedings of this Joint Sitting are not being televised now and I want to compliment those in my Party who organised the list of speakers and exercised good judgment in making sure that my contribution was not televised. Apparently that applies not only to me. I have been looking at a survey conducted by the 'Daily Telegraph' of people who watched the Joint Sitting yesterday on television. According to the survey most of the housewives spoken to preferred the soap operas and daytime movies. One woman said: 'Why watch that bunch acting like children when you can see the real thing in "Romper Room"?' According to somebody else 'No. 96' is far too important to miss for a parliamentary debate on electoral boundaries and that we should be discussing real issues, like price rises. I agree with the last part of that. At least the price is right on Channel 10. However, according to this newspaper man, one person, the secretary of an old age pensioners' society, watched the telecast from beginning to end. He said Parliament should be televised more often and believed there was one way of boosting ratings. He said that members of Parliament should take the opportunity of appearing in the altogether so that constituents could become more intimately acquainted with them. I nominate the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  - 
-This is all about the health Bills. 
I have probably spoken more words about national health schemes than has anyone in these 2 Houses of Parliament, not because I am naturally verbose but because for 5 years as Minister for Health I presided over the development and operation of the existing voluntary health scheme which these Bills, in an act of wanton senseless vandalism, are designed to destroy. During those years I learned a lot. I learned how complex and delicately balanced were the relationships between the professionals and the institutions responsible for providing health care and, in turn, between those professionals and institutions and the recipients of health care. I learned how easily these relationships can be upset, how easily the quality of health care can decline if one wields the bludgeon, as the present Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has done; if one attempts to let funding arrangements and economic considerations rather than efficient and sympathetic delivery of health care predominate in the health scheme; if in a search for something that is simple and easily understood one forgets that he is dealing with something that is essentially complex and therefore not conducive to such treatment; if one pulls down and destroys and starts again rather than build on what is proven and tried. I learned by observing what had happened in other countries that by adopting these criteria we had developed a health scheme which, although not perfect, was unique and, I believe, somewhat precious. That is why I say with all the conviction at my command that it is a wanton act of vandalism to destroy it, as the Labor Government proposes to do when and if these Bills are enacted. 
At the end of my time as Minister for Health I expressed my convictions in these words: 
We want a health scheme in which the citizen is always treated as an individual human being and not just as a cog in a medical care machine. We want a scheme in which his feelings, his convenience, even his  idiosyncracies  are respected, in which he always remains a person and not just an illness or a cipher on a computer card. We also want a system which encourages a degree of self reliance and which does not encourage the individual to rely entirely on the machinery of some monolithic government agency for care and sympathyqualities which any bureaucracy, however well motivated its personnel, is ill equipped to provide. 
It is because the present scheme provides, in my view, these things and the scheme embodied in these Bills provides the very opposite, that I and the joint Opposition Parties oppose the proposed scheme. Let me tell the Joint Sitting what this proposed scheme does not do. This should hardly be necessary except that over many years now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Social Security have persistently and wilfully misled the public, and in this they have been uncritically echoed by some newspapers, particularly the Melbourne 'Age'. Honourable members and honourable senators will remember that, over the years, every time there has been an increase in doctors' fees or an increase in hospital charges; every time there were complaints that the present scheme did not adequately cover paramedical services; every time there were problems about nursing homes; every time that other such problems arose, there were cries from the Prime Minister and his few servile supporters in the Press Gallery that we must have the Labor Party's health scheme to fix them. In these circumstances it will probably surprise the public to know that these Bills and the scheme embodied in them are silent on all these things. There is in them no mechanism for ensuring that doctors charge the common fee. There is no answer to the problem of soaring hospital costs. There is even less cover for paramedical services than under the present scheme. There is absolutely no answer to the ever escalating costs of nursing home fees. 
Last year the Government brought down a White Paper designed to turn away wrath, to assuage fears, to dampen down the hostility of people and institutions affected by its proposals, and to lull people into a sense of false security- a dishonest document deliberately designed to mislead. This White Paper received a great deal of publicity. It was hailed by the Minister and his acolytes in the Press Gallery as a triumph for tolerance, reason and compromise. It will therefore come as a surprise to the public to know that despite the soothing words in the White Paper there is no guarantee either in it or in the legislation that there will be sufficient standard ward beds for people who want them when they want them. There is absolutely no guarantee that their doctor will be able to follow them into hospital even if they happen to be attached to the visiting staff. There is absolutely no guarantee that private hospitals will remain in existence- still less the subsidised community hospitals in my own State. There is absolutely no guarantee that large numbers of able specialists will not be forced out of private practice into salaried public service by economic deprivation. 
There is absolutely no assurance that in the absence of government support for the special account in particular, and other forms of Commonwealth assistance in general, insurance cover for private hospital treatment will not be so prohibitively expensive as to be out of the range of all but a very wealthy few. I could go on with this list. But the items on it all have one thing in common. The White Paper makes reassuring noises about all of them which do not mean a damned thing. Given the record of this Minister, this Prime Minister and this Government over the last 20 months the Australian people would be extremely unwise to listen to or to heed reassuring noises of any description. In my view that record perfectly justifies this Opposition's maintaining our opposition up to the hilt. 
In the light of all this there are people from one end of Australia to the other asking themselves why the Government is trying to throw out a health scheme which the overwhelming majority of them have found perfectly satisfactory, which has given them good quality health care at reasonable cost with freedom of choice of doctor and hospital and health insurance fund, and with speed and compassion, and in which they have genuine confidence. However much the Government may protest to the contrary, however much it may twist and distort figures and however much it may emphasise individual cases and incidents and attempt to make people believe that black is white and white is black, this has been the experience of the overwhelming majority of Australians. 
I constantly ask myself why these changes have become necessary or why there has been the denigration which the Australian Labor Party has undertaken persistently over the years of the health funds, the doctors, the private hospitals, the nursing homes and other such bodies. Why have the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security denigrated them time after time, year after year, week in and week out? 
-I will deal with that in just a minute. I constantly ask myself why all this denigration was necessary. If the Labor Party's health scheme was as good as honourable members and honourable senators opposite have been saying it is, why go into this denigration of decent, self-respecting individuals to the extent that they have. Looking back, I think I understand. The original scheme was not the WhitlamHayden scheme; it was conceived by 2 young economists, Scotton and Deeble. Not unnaturally, being economists, the financial aspects dominated their thinking. As they saw it, it was only by constructing a scheme that was virtually entirely tax financed that the health costs which were burgeoning everywhere in the world could be controlled. This is how the United Kingdom has been able to keep expenditure on health below 5 per cent of its gross national product. Undoubtedly, this was their model, although, of course, it was adapted to suit Australian conditions and Labor Party political prejudices. Everything else followed, particularly the large degree of uniformity and Government control, dragging everybody and everything down to the lowest level. The Australian people will live to regret this. In other words, it was nationalisation in fact, if not in name. 
Deeble and Scotton sold this scheme to the Australian Labor Party lock, stock and barrel. It emerged as Australian Labor Party policy without a change of a dot of an 'i' or the cross of a 't'. Deeble and Scotton did not have to work hard to sell it. It appealed to the Labor Party's opportunist instincts. The voluntary health scheme was going through a bad patch. There was some public dissatisfaction with the benefits it provided, and the Government at that time was waiting for the Nimmo Committee to complete its report so that the next great step forward could be taken. That step was to be taken with something true and tried. What better environment could there be in which to launch this deceptively simple, superficially appealing and apparently cheaper scheme. It appealed not only to the opportunist instincts of the members of the Australian Labor Party but also to their socialist instincts. We must remember that it was essentially the British scheme. It was almost entirely tax financed. But it was and still is wrapped in tinsel to disguise its socialist origins. It made some headway in the minds of members of the public, not on its merits, because the realities were and are hidden from the public gaze, but on the constant reiteration by the Prime Minister that the current difficulties of the voluntary health scheme at that time were inherent in the scheme itself. 
I do not have to remind the Joint Sitting how the 1970 reforms- what I am now saying relates to the question I was asked earner about the Nimmo Committee report- following on the acceptance by the then Government of most of the Nimmo recommendations gave the complete lie to that assertion. We were able to produce the present arrangements, which so many Australians have found so sensitively attuned to their health care needs, without abandoning the principles of voluntary health insurance. Almost overnight the main arguments on which the Labor Party based its proposition for a substitute scheme disappeared. Faced with this position, with the ground cut from under their feet, the present Prime Minister and the present Minister for Social Security decided to bluff it out, to misrepresent and misrepresent everything about the defects of the present scheme and the elements of their own scheme. 
Let me give honourable members and honourable senators one example of each type of misrepresentation. Firstly, there are the health funds. I defy the Minister to deny that he and the Prime Minister quite deliberately, as an act of policy, set out to denigrate the health funds and to create in the public mind the impression that the funds were profit making institutions operating for their own benefit and that the large number of closed and friendly society funds were a source of extravagance and inefficiency and squandered money on excessive promotion and self-indulgence. I defy both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security to deny that at the time they said those things they knew them to be untrue. 
Let me take another example, this time from their own scheme, the one that we are asked to approve this afternoon. Members of the Labor Party have asserted constantly- they have said it in this debate-that it does not mean the nationalisation of medicine. Yet they know- indeed, they have boasted- that under their scheme many more patients will enter the public wards of public hospitals. They have told us that the occupants of these beds will be treated by salaried or sessionally paid doctors, not on a fee for service basis. They know that most specialists in private practice depend on the fees they are paid for services rendered to patients in intermediate or private wards and in private hospitals for the major part of their income. They know that the more people cease to be private patients and become public patients the more specialists will be forced by economic necessity to become salaried doctors. If this is not nationalisation, I do not know what is. They have said again and again that their scheme does not mean nationalisation. They know that to be untrue. This scheme deserves to be thrown out because it was conceived in deceit and has been perpetuated by misrepresentation unequalled in Australian history. 

 -Mr Speaker, we know precisely what the Special Minister of State  (Mr Bowen)  was proposing and this man, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who, the Prime Minister' told us this afternoon, was going to be Acting Prime Minister of Australia for eight or nine weeks, did not have the wit to carry out the Government's strategy on this matter. He did not think fast enough to get that in before I rose to my feet and was called. Yet this man, who so inadequately defended his Government against the very well mounted attack by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  earlier this afternoon, is to be left in charge of this country as the Acting Prime Minister to blunder round as he has in his portfolio of Minerals and Energy. He is a man who comes second only to the unions, the left-wingers and the communists as being responsible; for the situation we find ourselves in today. He is going to be left to blunder round as Acting Prime Minister of this country for 8 days. I did not actually add it up when the Prime Minister produced his diary this afternoon. What was his reply to the terms of his motion? Complete and absolute insensitivity, insensitivity in exactly the same, terms as the Prime Minister when he was questioned today at question time. He brushed off the shortages, the inconvenience, the unpreparedness in our defence forces with which we are left as a result of this action in our defence forces. What did he do? He talked about the price of petrol. He talked about the quantity of it; he talked about everything except the situation in which very large numbers of people find themselves, through not being able to get fuel. What is the use of having cheap fuel, what is the use of having plenty of fuel if nobody can get it, if people are exposed to tremendous disadvantages and discomforts over long periods as a result of union action which his Government is not prepared, to do anything about? It is intolerable to me that as a result of the current wave of industrial anarchy in Australia this Government should sit idly by while the front line of Australia's defence, the brains and ships and planes of the Navy and the Air Force - 

 Mr Connor- And you would be out leading them with rifles. (Honourable members interjecting)- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The member for Barker will resume his seat. I suggest that the Minister remain silent. I ask the Leader of the Country Party to remain silent. I suggest that those people sitting behind the honourable member for Barker who are supporting this motion also remain silent during the debate. 
As I was saying, it is absolutely intolerable that, as a result of this Government's condonation of industrial anarchy, it should sit idly by while the front lines of Australia 's defencesthe planes of the Air Force and the ships of the Navy- are completely immobilised over long periods. In Darwin only the week before last I saw, with my own eyes, because I went to have a look, 6 Fl 1 1 aircraft and a squadron of Mirage aircraft unable to return to their home bases in Queensland and New South Wales because of the fuel shortage. 
Is the honourable member for Hunter saying that when I was in Darwin 2 weeks ago there were not 6 Fl 1 1 aircraft and a whole squadron of Mirage fighters there weeks after they had finished their exercises in Darwin? They were there not because they wanted to be there, not because that was the best disposition of our defence forces, but because of the utter inaction of this Government in providing them with sufficient fuel to carry out their activities. That was the case. I went there and I talked - 
-I talked to the pilots and the maintenance people. 
-The Minister for Minerals and Energy seems to be fairly sensitive about this problem. Not only was the front line of the Royal Australian Air Force stuck in Darwin as a result of this situation but industrial disputes also forced the withdrawal of HMAS 'Melbourne' from a major international exercise. We are the laughing stock of the world as a result. (Honourable members interjecting)- 
In what other country would a government withdraw from a major international exercise, demeaning the pride of that country? Australia was to be the principal in this major international exercise but because the Government is not prepared to do anything about industrial anarchy and provide adequate fuel supplies to take part in that exercise - 
-Because the Government did not want a major industrial upheaval and it knew that the defence of the country was involved, the pride of the country was involved, this Minister, who is going to be the Acting Prime Minister - 
The defence of this country was involved, the pride of this country was involved, the commitments of this country were involved, our position in the world was involved; yet this Minister who for 8 days is to be left as Acting Prime Minister of Australia says: 'We did it because we did not want to create industrial upheaval'. That was his interjection. It will be recorded in Hansard. This Minister is going to be the Acting Prime Minister of Australia. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  after seeing this Minister's performance today, will have another think about his decision to leave the Minister in charge because it will be absolutely disastrous. Not only was the 'Melbourne' held up but the industrial situation also held up the fitting and repair of most of the Royal Australian Navy's major ships. It brought the RAAF and RAN flying training to a standstill. Surveillance of the Australian coast by RAN patrol boats from Cairns ceased during this period yet the Government could not care less. The fact is that Indonesian fishermen are landing on our coast at the risk of foot and mouth disease to the stock of Australia. There is an inadequate number of patrol boats. 
-This debate is concerned with one of Australia's greatest industries. It is an industry which still earns a greater proportion of our export income, or very close to it, than any other industry. This industry has been done grievous harm by the actions and policies of this Labor Government in the short space of almost 2 years that it has been in office. 
When this Government came to office, it argued, to quote the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that the wool industry had never had it so good- in other words, that the prosperous conditions which existed for the industry at that time did not justify support from the Australian taxpayers. On that basis, the Government took many actions which affected the industry. It revalued the currency. It removed the superphosphate bounty. It removed the vital taxation concessions which the industry enjoyed. It removed the subsidy which sought to equalise charges for fuel in city and country areas. The special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is at the table, as Postmaster-General was primarily instrumental in removing concessions to country people in respect of telephone and telecommunication services. There were many other actions of this sort. Later, in the miniBudget, the Government increased the excise on petrol. This move has vitally affected the wool industry in the same way as it affected every other primary industry. 
The argument advanced at the time to support such action ignored the fact that the industry had just come through what was almost the worst recession in its history. It was, and in many ways still is, loaded down with mountains of debts. What I am saying is that the prices received by the industry at the time when this Government came to office and took these actions did not reflect the true economic situation of the industry. The industry desperately needed those higher prices in order to make a start to extricate itself from the difficulties in which it was in the period of the rural recession. 
However, let us assume for the moment that the Government's argument is valid. I ask the Government and the Minister at the table, or whoever accepts responsibility for these Bills on the part of the Government- I am not quite sure who it is- why the Government is not being consistent. If it was reasonable to withdraw concessions at a time when the industry was prosperous, why is the Government not restoring those concessions now? Does the Government believe that at the level of costs and prices today the industry is still prosperous? Is that an argument that it would use as a basis for consistency? Not only has the Government not restored those concessions which I have mentioned, but it has dealt the industry further tremendous blows in the Budget for 1974-75. I do not need to repeat to the House that inflation has a greater impact on an industry like the wool industry, which sells the great bulk of its produce overseas, than on any other industry in Australia. The Government proposes to introduce a capital gains tax, to increase postal and telecommunications chargespostal and telecommunication services are vital to people in the country- and to increase charges imposed on the aviation industry. These Budget measures will cost the wool industry dearly. 
Take, as an example of this lack of consistency on the part of the Government, the levy for wool research and promotion. In introducing the Wool Levy Bill 1973, on 2 May 1973, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  said: 
Thus values compare favourably with prices realised in the years when the industry alone financed expenditure on wool promotion. For these reasons, the Government considers that in 1973-74, wool growers should finance a greater share of the expenditure on research and promotion and that its decision to provide $22m for this purpose and for the cost of administering the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation represents a reasonable balance in the circumstances. 
That is what the Minister said in 1973. He said that the industry was prosperous and was getting good prices and therefore could bear a greater proportion of the cost of financing wool promotion and research. As a result the Government increased the levy and reduced the Government's contribution. What do we find in these Bills before us? Do we find that to be consistent with that argument the Government has reduced the levy for wool promotion and research and accordingly has increased its contribution? We do not find anything of the sort. The levy remains exactly the same, despite the change in the economic circumstances of the industry. 
The Government claims that the $150m being provided for the Wool Corporation to carry on its activities is a recognition by the Governmenta sympathetic Government, its supporters say- of the problems of the industry. I have no hesitation in welcoming the Government's action in providing this money, as long as it does not use it to interfere with the activities of the Corporation. I believe that we will need- given the attitude of this Government- to watch that situation very carefully. Apart from that particular consideration I have no hesitation in saying that I welcome this measure. I have always believed that a floor price scheme is in the interests of the industry. That having been said, I ask: How generous and how adequate is the Government 's action? I think that we can come to a conclusion. We can make a judgment about the adequacy of the Government's action and about the claims by the Minister, the Government and Government supporters that the Government is being extremely generous to the wool industry. We can make a judgment by comparing the present situation that is being achieved by the provision of this $150m and the conditions on which it has been made available with the situation that existed under the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. 
The House will remember- it has been mentioned by almost every speaker in this debate, but needs to be said again- that the previous Government underwrote a price of 36c per lb. The present Government is providing money to underwrite 250c a kilo. This sounds a substantial improvement on the present situation, and it has been represented as such by the Government. In fact, when one does some figuring on this matter, it becomes quite apparent in relation to the only thing that matters- the real return to the grower- that his real return from the new situation is very little different, if different at all, from the previous situation. This is because of the enormous increase in costs to the industry as a result of the economic mismanagement, the inflation and the general ineptitude of the handling of the economy by this Government. 
In addition to a situation where the grower in real terms will be no better off under the new arrangement than he was under the old, taken purely on the basis of the floor price arrangements the growers are much worse off. They are worse off firstly because they have been deprived, as I mentioned earlier, of the other assistance that was provided by the previous Government- the superphosphate bounty, the taxation concessions, the telephone concessions and all the rest of it. These were essential components in determining the real economic situation of the grower. Secondly, under this legislation the grower now has to pay a 5 per cent levy designed to meet the losses incurred by the Corporation. 
The levy will produce $47m. I do not object tc that. It has always been a policy of the industry to stand on its own feet. I congratulate the industry, I think it is highly desirable. I mention it in the context of the claims made again and again by Government supporters that the Government is being generous to the industry. 
The Government is not being generous to the industry. To bandy around a figure which represents 250c a kilo and to say that it is extremely generous in the light of the factors in the situation which I have mentioned is a travesty of the truth. To represent this as generous assistance to the wool industry is quite laughable. It is assistance which will cost the Government nothing because the growers are meeting the losses, not the Government or the taxpayers. It is assistance, I repeat, which will cost the Government nothing and will do very little indeed to compensate the industry for the incessant rain of blows that has fallen on it from the policies of this Government. 
We have no other course open to us but to support the legislation. As many speakers on this side have said, and I have underlined, we regard it as a marginal minimal action on the part of the Government. I agree, as most of the newspapers in Australia have suggested, that this is something which the Government was dragged into almost against its will and almost without knowing what it was doing. If it had not moved in such a hurry and at such a run this minimal marginal action to assist an industry to which it has done so much harm would not have been taken. I support the legislation. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware that the effective strength of the Australian Army Reserve is now no more than 12,000, a reduction of more than 100 per cent since December 1972, and is falling week by week? When will the Government make a decision on the remaining recommendations of the Millar Committee on the Citizen Military Forces, or what is now called the Army Reserve, a report which has been in his hands for more than 6 months? In particular, when will he announce the Government's decision on the recommendation that members of the Reserve be paid at the same rate as members of the Regular Army? Will he confirm that it is the intention of the Government to withdraw from the Army Reserve the right to tax-free pay despite the strong recommendations of the Millar Committee to the contrary? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-We are about to get, I suppose, the one and a half hours a year we get to talk about defence. This is the first opportunity we have had to talk specifically on defence for more than a year. Even the customary practice which had been followed for so many years of the Minister for Defence making a statement to the House and of it being possible to debate it has not been followed. I believe this to be absolutely scandalous, particularly because defence is one of the fields- no doubt this is why we do not get adequate time to debate it- in which the Government is most vulnerable. The Government, particularly the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  does not seem to understand the enormity of what it is doing in the defence field. This is quite obvious, as the Minister had made 2 major speeches lately- one which he tabled in the House and the other which he delivered on Monday to the Returned Services League Congress- and in both of those statements he was most sensitive to criticism of the Government in relation to its defence policy. In fact, he took the RSL to task for daring to criticise the Government in respect of defence. 
I really believe that honourable gentlemen on the Government side do not understand the enormity of what they have done. They boast frequently about the huge increases in expenditure that the Government has undertaken in other fields including education, health and the arts. One has only to mention an area and they are boasting about the huge increase- 70, 80, 90 or 100 per cent- in expenditure in that area. Every time they do that and every time the fact is brought home to us that we have an inflation rate of over 20 per cent a year, it demonstrates with absolutely sickening force how completely and utterly the Government is neglecting defence. That is why people criticise the Government. A contrast is drawn between what Government members boast they are doing in very many fields- this is underlined by the highest inflation rate that Australia has had in this century- and what the Government is doing or is not doing with respect to defence. The more Government members boast, crow and preen themselves with respect to expenditure in these other areas, the more contrast is driven home to the people. That is why the Government is being criticised, and deservedly criticised. 
It is this which makes the attempt by the Minister for Defence to suggest that a LiberalCountry Party Government would cut defence expenditure so ludicrous and so pathetic. He did this yesterday by misinterpreting - 
-Look, I have only 10 minutes to speak on defence. That is all you have allowed me in this whole year. So, you keep quiet; stop interjecting. The Minister did this yesterday by misinterpreting a statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that we would cut overall government expenditure by 8 per cent. He misinterpreted this to mean that we would cut each item of government expenditure by 8 per cent. How ridiculous can one be? To suggest that we would cut further expenditure on something as important as defence, which this Government has cut and cut and cut, is absolute nonsense. We are committed quite specifically and without qualification to substantially increased defence expenditure when we come into government. Unlike the present Government, a Liberal-Country Party government would keep its promises. Who is this Minister, by means of a Dorothy Dix question from the honourable member from Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  who has never thought about defence in his life, to talk? He is the man who promised specifically and solemnly when in Opposition, in an attempt to win government, that the Labor Party would spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. In the first Budget of the new Labor Government after that promise to spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product the expenditure on defence represented 2.9 per cent; in this year's Budget it has been reduced to 2.6 per cent. Who is he to rise in this chamber and criticise the Opposition? 
I have hardly any time in which to deal with other matters. But I must pick out one specific item in these estimates in respect of which the Government is most culpable and say something about it. I refer to the fact that in the 1974-75. defence estimates the Government provides only $9 1.8m for new equipment. That is 6 per cent of the defence vote. By way of contrast, I make the point that in its last Budget, that for 1972-73, the Liberal-Country Party Government provided $184m for new equipment. In his statement on the 5-year program made in 1972, the then Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  forecast that in 1976-77 expenditure on new equipment would rise to $325m, at 1972 prices. I will content myself with the 1972-73 figure, the one included in our last Budget. I contrast the $184m appropriated for new equipment then with the sum of $9 1.8m- these are Labor Party, Whitlam depreciated dollars- provided in the Budget this year, 2 years later, for new equipment. 
At this rate the Australian Services will soon lack credibility completely as they struggle and scrape along with 15-year-old destroyers, 17- year-old minesweepers, an 18-year-old aircraft carrier, a force of patrol boats which are due to be phased out in 1982, medium artillery pieces of World War Two vintage, 20-year-old tanks, armoured personnel carriers and other vehicles which have been through several years of intense operations in Vietnam, Mirage fighters which have been in service for a decade and frequently become unserviceable after less than half an hour in the air, and Hercules transports that are over 10 years old and with no adequate replacement in sight. Even if the nature of warfare were static, an annual appropriation of $91. 8m for new equipment would be ludicrous. As we have seen, especially in the Middle East in October 1973, the conduct of modern warfare is being revolutionised by the development of new missiles, remotely piloted vehicles, satellites and battle-field surveillance equipment which turns night into day for those who have it, and by the evolution of new tactics for use on land, at sea and in the air. Hence, for Australia to spend only $9 1.8m on new equipment against this background is gross irresponsibility, for which we might pay dearly in later years. 
For the late 1970s and early 1980s at least, Australia faces a grave deficiency of modern military equipment which will of itself cause a serious strategic problem. Even if a LiberalCountry Party government were to come to office tomorrow, the problem of lead times for major equipment items is such that there is little that could be done to fill this gap. The longer the present Government stays in office, the worse this situation will become. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has he said that a Labor Government would never deliberately create unemployment as an instrument of economic policy? Is his Government presiding over by far the highest rate of unemployment for more than 30 years? Does he believe that the army of unemployed men and women will be consoled by the fact that they have been thrown out of work as a result of the incompetence and economic mismanagement of his Government rather than as a deliberate act of policy? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken on each of the recommendations of the Millar Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it an objective .of the Government to provide more adequately for the defence of the Australian mainland. 
If so, what steps has the Government taken to achieve this objective with respect to (a) Force structure; (b) Force dispositions; (c) equipment; (d) defence infra-structure; (e) communications and transport facilities; and (!) civil defence. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has be stated on numerous occasions that a self reliant defence capability in keeping with Australia's independent foreign policy is an objective of the Government. 
If so, what steps has the Government taken to achieve this objective with respect to (a) the combat forces; (b) logistic support; and (c) defence industry. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government under examination the question of whether Army Reserve pay should continue to be tax free. 
If so, when will a decision be made. 
-The provisions of this Bill are confined to increasing defence forces retirement benefits and defence forces retirement and death benefits to compensate, I suppose you would call it, for inflation. The method adopted is to apply the 16.2 per cent increase in average weekly earnings for the 12 months ending 31 March this year to a notional consolidated revenue portion of the pension. This is done in lieu of the automatic annual adjustment mechanism which was recommended by the Jess Committee and which the Government is committed to introducing but which it is still studying. The Opposition supports this Bill, but I would like to make a few comments on it. 
The first comment I make is that I wonder whether, in the light of a situation which the Government admitted in its Budget of wage increases of over 20 per cent, this 16.2 per cent increase will be sufficient to protect the recipients of these pensions against inflation. In fact, I am sure that it will not be sufficient. The pensioners will get further and further behind. I make this point because it adds force to the next point I want to make, that is, the importance which the Opposition attaches to the introduction of the automatic system of adjustment which presumably will cater more precisely for increases in costs and anticipated increases in costs than the present ad hoc method adopted by the Government. 
There are 2 matters in which the Government is dragging its feet in the general area of defence forces retirement benefits. The first is the area that I have just been speaking of, that is, the failure to introduce automatic adjustments to pensions. It is more than  Vh  years since the Jess Committee recommended that automatic adjustments be made to pensions. I realise that the Government has been looking at new proposals that have been put to it and the effects their possible introduction may have on the future of the pension updating arrangements currently in force. But surely 2 years is a sufficient time to bring this sort of examination to a conclusion. Until such time as automatic adjustments are introduced, the pensioners under this scheme will be dependent on the whims of the Government to make annual adjustments. I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard ) in replying to this debate to give the House a report of when he believes it will be possible to introduce the automatic adjustments. 
The second matter on which the Government has been dragging its feet relates to the fact that it is now more than a year since the Minister announced- it was widely circulated in Service circles- that anomalies had been revealed by the application of the new scheme, particularly in relation to officers who froze their contributions under the old scheme. He said then that the anomalies would be removed by the introduction of amending legislation, probably in the autumn session of Parliament. This statement was made last year. The autumn session has passed. He also stated that the benefits would be made retrospective to 1 October 1972. In those circumstances it would have been reasonable to expect that these amendments would be included in legislation introduced in November of 1974. Again, I hope the Minister will inform the House of the position in relation to that undertaking and those amendments when he replies to the debate. 
The main point that I wish to raise this afternoon relates to those people to whom, so far as I am aware, the Minister has given no undertaking except that automatic updating of pensions will apply to them. I refer to the 8,000 or 9,000 pensioners who retired prior to October 1972 and who are not included in the new scheme. The very generosity of this new scheme- it is a generous one- highlights the situation of these people. I cite the case of 2 officers whom I know personally. They are of the same rank and retired only a month apart. They retired a month apart purely because of an accident of birth. They both entered the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in the same year. They retired a month apart. But as a result of that month's difference in retirement dates there is no less than $5,000 a year difference between the pensions that the two of them receive. The reason for that of course is that one retired before 1 October 1972 and the other retired afterwards. I might add that the person who retired first, and who is receiving $5,000 a year less in pension, over the period of his service for various reasons contributed in total more to the scheme than the person on the higher pension. 
I am informed- I have not been able to get any accurate assessment of this- that the disparity on the average between the pensions received under the 2 schemes taken overall- of course there will be individual exceptions- may well be of the order of 50 per cent. In other words, the pensions of people under the new scheme- those people in comparable circumstances and people who retired at the same rank- will be 50 per cent higher. Of course every time there is a percentage increase such as the one contained in this Bill the disparity widens. It has widened twice in the last 2 years as a result of these 2 annual adjustments brought in by this Government. It is not as if these people contributed less as a percentage of their pay; in many cases they contributed more. Towards the end of their service some of them contributed much more. Indeed, it was the hardship done to these people, particularly the ones who were subject to payments of very considerable proportions of their salaries as contributions towards the end of their service, which led to much of the pressure to set up the Jess Committee and the introduction of the new scheme. To demonstrate the point I am making about the difficulties suffered by some of these people, perhaps I could read a letter from a retired warrant officer living in Canberra. The letter states: 
Analysis of the copies of letters and replies forwarded under cover of my letter- 
That is, letters to the Minister for Defence. to you dated 24 June 1974 will prove how specific questions -comments made by me on down to earth dollar and cent issues, do not receive tangible replies; in fact, some infer how lucky I am, or, even more undiplomatic, how lucky those are under the new scheme. I believe that the Minister or his assistant who signs these replies has only a sketchy idea as to what it means in actual pension rate. 
Incidentally, I do not believe that this is correct because I believe that the Minister knows a great deal about this scheme, particularly as he was a member of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Legislation. But nevertheless it describes the feelings of this warrant officer after he had been in receipt of communications signed by the Minister for Defence or the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison).  The letter continues: 
I believe also that if he read the replies concurrently with the letter, he would doubt if he was signing the correct paper. It seems a case of the Government being run by the administration. 
It has reached a point where trying to get through is difficult. Most of the replies talk percentages, and that proportionately we are not badly off; also they go to great lengths to pad out their letters, amplifying matters on which I have never criticised, complained about, or raised. I purely wanted to get home to him that my residual pension, after commuting one-third, is a taxable $19.43 (repeat $19.43) per week, with correspondingly poor widows pension in the event of my death. Replies that 'I haven't been badly done by percentagewise' doesn't comfort me or my wife, and doesn't increase my ability to pay bills. My ex-service friends receive similar replies. 
I would add that the increase we are talking about in this legislation will give that person, as I calculate it, an extra $2.49 a week but it will not bring his pension up to a princely sum. The Government's failure to do anything about the plight of these people contrasts strangely with its generosity to other groups of existing pensioners for whom the Commonwealth has responsibility. I mention particularly the position of existing pensioners when the parliamentary retiring allowances scheme was changed by this Government. I think that was a great step forward. One of the concomitants of a government's taking a decision to provide a scheme of that nature is its readiness to do the same in relation to other people for whom it has responsibility and who are similarly placed, because I contend that there is no difference between a DFRB pensioner under the pre-October scheme and a parliamentary pensioner who retired, say, 20 years ago and whose pension under new legislation, regardless of the amount contributed, will automatically become 50 per cent or more than 50 per cent higher, depending on his period of service, of the existing parliamentary salary and any increases in parliamentary salary which might be granted in the future. I believe that if a government is ready to take a decision to treat one group of pensioners in a certain way, it should accept the consequence of that decision that it has an obligation to treat other pensioners for which it has responsibility in a similar way. 
It is difficult to know precisely what the Jess Committee intended in relation to this group of people. Certainly these people came within the Committee's terms of reference. But from what I could discover from the odd reference in the report itself and talking to some members of the Committee, the pressure to make recommendations for a new scheme was such that it left the Committee insufficient time to sort out the complexities involved in making recommendations in respect of this particular group, except for the one recommendation that it made, relating to automatic updating. The point I am making is that, if my information is correct, the absence of specific recommendations in respect of this group does not mean that the Jess Committee believed that nothing should be done. Indeed in the comparable debate in May 1973, one member of the Committee, the previous honourable member for Isaacs,  Mr Hamer,  used words which lead me to the belief that the Committee felt that something more should have been done about this particular group of pensioners. The Minister was a member of that Committee and perhaps when he replies in the debate he can give us his version of where the Committee was placed and what the Committee intended in respect of this group. 
The Opposition supports the suggestion which, I believe, has been put to the Minister by the remaining members of the Committee who are members of this Parliament and who are not Ministers- my colleague, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett), Senator Maunsell,  and  Senator Devitt  who is a member of the Minister's own Party. We support the suggestion made to the Minister by that group and by the Regular Defence Forces Welfare Association that a new committee be constituted to make recommendations in relation to servicemen who retired prior to October 1972. 1 believe that it should be a select committee of the 
Parliament for 2 reasons: First, the original committee was a select committee and this could be looked upon as a continuation of work which that committee did not have time to complete and, secondly and perhaps more importantly, it was this Parliament which took the responsibility for providing the precedent in relation to Commonwealth pensioners when it passed the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Bill. Therefore, it should be a committee of this Parliament which faces up to the responsibility, the equity and the moral obligations that the Parliament has, in the light of that particular decision of the Parliament, to other groups for whom the Commonwealth has responsibility. Irrespective of whether the Minister agrees to set up such a select committee, the Opposition is committed, when it is returned to government, to set up such a committee to make recommendations in relation to equitable treatment for the pre-October 1972 pensioners. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that Air Vice Marshal Hurditch, Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, has tendered his resignation? Is it also a fact that 2 admirals have tendered their resignations or indicated that they intend to do so? Can he say whether these further resignations of extremely valuable senior officers reflect the frustration and the intense dissatisfaction in the Services with the Government's handling of defence matters and, in particular, its handling of the reorganisation of the defence group of departments? When will the Minister wake up and recognise that we will have no defence forces left if this situation is allowed to continue? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did paragraph 1 95 of the Report of the Defence Legal Services Committee of Review say that there is not even one lawyer in the Attorney-General's Department or in any of the Defence Group of Departments who has specialised knowledge of the United States procurement law. 
If so, has this deficiency since been remedied. 
Will the Prime Minister inform the House what purpose in Australia's national interest will be served by his visit to the Greek islands which is shown on his itinerary? 
-Eight hundred and thirty-nine officers have left the Services in the last 17 months, 274 of them between April and August this year. This means that an average of more than 49 officers a month have voted with their feet against the defence policies of the Whitlam Government. There is not one informed commentator who does not regard this massive loss as disastrous to the future defence of this country. Let me quote from only two of these commentators. The first, Denis Warner, had this to say: 
The Army is not too concerned about the numbers game. It accepts that force strengths must sometimes fall below what commanders would like. This is not too significant provided the base for rapid expansion remains. But it is precisely this base that is being swept away by current resignations. There are plenty of pawns, but the ranks of the 'pieces' are being heavily depleted. Among the young and able colonels who have opted out there are many who carried a general's baton in their knapsacks. There will come a time when Australia, if it reverses its 'no threat' concept, will have neither allies it can be certain of nor the material on which to rebuild its armed forces. A rush to the colours may reflect splendid patriotic virtues, if it happens, but it will be no substitute for professionalism in these days when the sophistication and complexity of equipment in all Services demand years of training. 
My second quotation is from  Major Peter  Young who, the House will remember, was a Labor candidate for the seat of Lowe, I think, in the 1969 election and the senior adviser to the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  when he was shadow Minister for Defence while in Opposition.  Major Peter  Young said:  . . . despite what may be said about officers snatching their time and pension it is a loss of expertise and capital expenditure which can never be replaced. 
Yet all the Minister does is puff out his chest and talk about the generosity of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits scheme as if the loss of all these officers- this experience, this expertise, this essential element in our capacity to expand in time of war- does not matter provided the Government has been generous to them in their premature retirement. The Minister is the Minister for Defence. It is his responsibility to do something, it is his responsibility to prevent the patient bleeding to death- not to sit idly by boasting about the skill with which he punctured the artery, which is what he has been doing. 
In any case it is a monstrous insult to the integrity, dedication and professionalism of most of these officers to suggest, as the Minister has, that the sole reason why these officers left the Service was the attraction of a retirement pension. The Minister knows nothing of the attitude and make-up of Service officers if he believed that they will abandon their career at the 20-year mark, as many of them have done, unless there was something profoundly wrong. His cheap gibe, when I asked him a question the other day about Air Vice Marshall Hurditch- he quoted the size of his pension- does the Minister no credit. This officer is 53 years of age which means that he has at least 4 years to go even if he is not promoted further. He is generally acknowledged to be one of the ablest officers in the Royal Australian Air Force. There is not a shadow of doubt that his natural motivation, shared by most other officers, would lead him to continue to serve his country in the career to which he has devoted his life if he felt that any good purpose would be served, if he felt that the Government believed that defence mattered, if he felt that the Government gave defence any sort of priority and if he felt the Government had the slightest interest in instilling a sense of purpose in national defence. There are many reasons associated with the Government's neglect of defence which have led officers in all 3 Services to resign in such large numbers. My colleagues and I on this side of the House have referred to them time after time, only to be treated with contempt by the Minister, who has hardly ever bothered to reply. I shall refer to them again later if I have time. 
For the moment I want to say something about the reorganisation of the Defence group of departments, the dissatisfaction with which, as the Minister has admitted, played a large part in Air 
Vice Marshal Hurditch's decision to resign. Although the Minister has denied it, it is well known that a large proportion of the officers who have resigned this year have been influenced by the way in which the Government has handled this matter. The Minister has implied that dissatisfaction with the reorganisation springs from an incapacity on the part of the older officers to adjust to desirable change. He has refused to admit that it is due to the defects in the reorganisation itself and the Government's handling of it. According to the Minister, he is infallibleincapable of making a mistake. As I warned him it would when he tabled the Tange report, his belief in his own infallibility has cost the country dear. Even if the Minister chooses to take no notice of the Opposition he should have taken heed when Brigadier Greville, in a brilliant, logical and penetrating address to the Staff College, criticised the new system and placed his career on the line in the process. I hasten to make the point that I do not know a single Service officer who is not in favour of the integration of the Defence group of departments. Their criticism is not with the objective but with some of the means of achieving the objective and with the hasty and insensitive way in which the Government has handled it. 
Despite the fact that similar reorganisations in the United Kingdom and Canada- I admit that the Canadian one went further- took many years to consider, with exhaustive discussions with everbody likely to be involved before the government took a decision and took even longer to accomplish after decisions had been taken, the Government required  Sir Arthur  Tange to prepare his report in 12 months. The situation was made worse by the fact that it was a period in which  Sir Arthur  and the Service chiefs were deeply preoccupied by the savage cuts which the Government had imposed on the Services. My understanding is that towards the end of 1973  Sir Arthur  asked for more time for deeper consideration and greater consultation. It was refused, I am told, by a decision of the Prime Minister himself, who was more interested in giving an impression of activity on the part of the Government than in sound decisions in a matter vital to the defence of this country. 
To make matters worse, the report was approved by Cabinet with hardly any consideration and with hardly a Minister present even beginning to understand what it was all about. This was a shocking abdication of responsibility by a Government to whom the Services look to exercise civilian control. To the Services civilian control means control by the elected government in 
Parliament, not control by civil servants.  Sir Arthur  Tange 's report indicated that there were major disagreements between him and the Chiefs of Staff on the matters on which they were consulted, quite apart from those on which they were not. Most, if not all, of these disagreements were decided by  Sir Arthur  against the Chiefs of Staff. This should have set the alarm bells ringing. Here was an occasion on which the Government should have exercised its responsibility to consider these issues with great care and in great depth. It did not. 
From that time on trouble was inevitable. Understandably, it disposed servicemen to believe that the new organisation, with its heavy emphasis on civil servants in senior positions, was designed to filter service advice so that it would never get to the Minister and the Government in a pure and unadulterated form. They were disposed to believe, as Denis Warner has put it, that here the no threat doctrine was being given a son of perpetual status, with the Public Service taking over the ultimate control of the defence forces. It would not work in time of war, the Services complained. 'Australia has spent very few of its years at war' was, I am told,  Sir Arthur  Tange 's reply. Their fears were confirmed by the fact that the proposed reorganisation, in contrast to the United Kingdom, provided the Chief of the Defence Force Staff with very little staff backing in contrast to the large high powered machine the Secretary had behind him. 
In this situation the people in the Services have little doubt, in any conflict between the two, who would win. Civilian control would, in fact, become control by civil servants. Their fears have been underlined by the fact that it has been virtually impossible for the Chiefs of Staff to gain access to the Minister for Defence. They are deeply worried by a situation in which they are charged with the responsibility for preparing their services for tasks laid down by the Government, without the direct means of putting to the Government what is required to carry out these tasks. Again, they see the civil servants, with no responsibility and no expertise, at worst obstructing their task and at best filtering their advice to the Minister. I am not saying that all these fears are justified. What I am saying is that the Government and the Minister must be held responsible for the fact that they exist and have not been allayed. 
It was not necessary to take decisions on the new organisation with such haste. Indeed, so low is the priority given to the matter by the Government that we are not now to get the legislation to implement the reorganisation until the autumn sitting at the earliest, despite the Minister's earlier undertaking that it would be brought down in this sitting. It was not necessary for the Government to abdicate its responsibility and thereby signify to the Services that under this Government decisions on defence matters by civil servants would be rubber-stamped by the Government. The Government could have instituted a defence council comprising Ministers, the Chiefs of Staff and senior civil servants. It could have provided that many of the senior positions in the Department of Defence would be filled by either civilians or servicemen, whoever was best qualified. It has committed all these cardinal errors of omission and commission. As a result, the Government has lost forever large numbers of valuable officers and has created a crisis of confidence which will not be overcome until it is thrown out of office. 
-The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and honourable members on their side of the House have been looking around in their customary way as they have been doing for so many years for an opportunity to denigrate the health funds in order to promote their particular scheme, conceived in infamy and by a couple of academics. They are trying again to continue the same process of denigration which they have engaged in quite deliberately for so many years. In doing this, I am astonished that tonight of all the funds they have chosen to denigrate the health fund in Australia which has generally been acknowledged by the officers of the Minister's DepartmentI ask the Minister to deny this- as the best run health fund in Australia. I refer to Mutual Hospital Association of South Australia. 
The honourable member for Prospect quite deliberately stood up and in a snide way quoted people like  Mr Ian  McLachlan,  Sir Roland  Jacobs and  Mr Anthony  Brookman to denigrate this fund. I challenge the Minister for Social Security to say that the officers of his Department who have had experience with this fund over the years would not acknowledge that this is the best organised, the best run and the most beneficial health fund in Australia. I also challenge him to say whether any of his officers would commit themselves to saying that a government run health fund could be run better and more economically than the Mutual Hospital Association of South Australia, because they darn well could not and the Minister knows it. 
The Minister took over from his leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  5 or 6 years ago this technique, this process of attempting to promote for his own political purposes a health scheme which will do enormous harm to the people of Australia- to the Australian taxpayers. In order to promote that he pursued a deliberate policy of denigrating these voluntary non-profit making health funds. This has been the Minister's deliberate stock in trade for 6 or 7 years. The Minister for Social Security did not conceive it; his present leader, the Prime Minister, conceived this process of denigrating the health funds in order to promote the great monolithic, compulsory health fund to be run by the Government which the Minister is in the process of foisting on us. He did not conceive it, but he continued it and he is continuing it in this Bill. 
I am astonished that this legislation is proposed at this stage when Government supporters boast that this great conception of theirs is coming to fruition, when we are going to get this great new health scheme which they have been promoting for so many years and in the getting of which they have been denigrating so many good people round Australia- the people who run the compulsory health funds; the people who do the work in the field, in the medical profession; the people in the public hospitals; the people in the private hospitals; the people in the nursing homes. All those people have been denigrated year by year in order to promote this great monolithic socialist scheme. This legislation is being proposed just as they have achieved a situation in which, according to them, the scheme will be introduced. We went to a Joint Sitting, and the Minister has told us that we are to get this scheme on 1 July next year. 
In other words, the voluntary health scheme which they have denigrated over the years is to be phased out. It will disappear in the next 6 months. Yet this Minister has thought it necessary to bring before the Parliament for the remaining 6 months of the scheme a Bill to introduce additional controls over the voluntary health funds. Why? I am suspicious. I am not normally a suspicious person. But there are only 6 months to go. We are going to achieve the millenium in 6 months time, and for those 6 months we are to have these measures which will produce a situation in which any representative of a private health fund who defies the Minister's directions can be subject to penalties. It has been found necessary to introduce for those 6 months something which has never been found necessary until now in the whole history of the voluntary health scheme since it was first introduced many years ago. 
This legislation is designed to enable the Minister to transfer reserves from the medical funds to the hospital funds even though the people who contribute to those different funds are not the same people. To me this is sheer daylight robbery. It is deceit. It is taking money contributed by people for a particular purpose and transferring it to another purpose for which the contributors have not given their permission. This is theft. This is robbery. Do you know what it is designed for,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? I am suspicious. It is designed for one of 2 purposes or both. The first purpose is to reduce the Government's own subvention, which it has been paying ever since it came in as a government, to the voluntary health schemes- to use the contributors' reserves to take over the obligations which should be accepted by the Government. The other and probably most important purpose in the mind of the Minister for Social Security is to use this legislation as a device against the stated decision of the courts of the land which found against him in New South Wales recently. He can use this as a device to expropriate the reserves of the voluntary health funds before his iniquitous social scheme is brought in. 
Government supporters have discovered something else in these dying hours of the voluntary health scheme, these last 6 months before it is to disappear forever according to them. They have told us it is going to disappear. I sometimes wonder whether they have any real confidence that the voluntary health scheme is going to disappear. There are a number of reasons why it would not disappear. One of the reasons would be that the Government's scheme will not be ready. Might it be true that the Government is running into difficulties with its scheme, that on 1 July next year this much vaunted socialist scheme will not be ready to take over, and that the Government foresees a continuation of the voluntary scheme for much longer? Or perhaps there is an alternative scenario. Perhaps the Government supporters have divined that they might not be in office on 1 July next year. I do not know. This might be in their minds. In any case, in these last dying 6 months of the scheme they have suddenly discovered the special account provision. 
Let me remind the House what the Minister had to say about the special account. He said: 
It must be realised that the special account system was designed by the previous Liberal-Country  Party  Government to prop up the health benefits funds. 
He also said: 
The special accounts machinery provides a hidden sur -i-.h to medical and hospital benefits funds and the  structure  of the legislation is such that the system can be manipulated to the advantage of organisations. 
The same old thing- bash the organisations, denigrate the organisations, denigrate the previous Government because by doing that you will put it into disfavour and you will establish a basis for public acceptance of your own monolithic socialist scheme. I can remember that over the years first of all the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition and followed by the present Minister for Social Security when he was the shadow Minister for Health never used to talk about the special account. We never heard about it. The only thing we heard from the Minister for Social Security and from the person who is described as his Leader was the inadequacy of the then Government's contribution to the hospital benefits scheme. Time after time the Minister for Social Security stood and talked about the $2 a day which was provided as a Commonwealth contribution to the hospital benefits scheme. He reminded us that that had remained static for many many years, and so it had. But did we hear the Minister or the Prime Minister at that stage talk about the special account about which they are so concerned now that they are seeking to do something about it in this legislation? Of course we did not. The reason we did not was that for their own political purposes they wanted to make it appear that the only money which the LiberalCountry Party Government put into the hospital benefits scheme was through the $2 a day, when in fact of course as time went on and as a result of a decision by the then Liberal-Country Party Government, we chose quite deliberately to improve the situation in relation to special account contributors because we judged that they were the people most in need. The then Opposition knew that. The present Minister for 
Social Security knew this. He knew that the reason why we did not increase the $2 a day was to widen gradually the ambit of the special account because after all the special account provides for people who are in hospital for lengthy periods, people who otherwise would have waiting rules imposed on them by the funds and other restrictions. The Minister knew that these were the people who were most in need, and allegedly his Party stood for a system which gave the greatest benefit to the people who were in the greatest need. 
But did they mention the special account when in Opposition? Of course they did not. All they did was to concentrate on the inadequacy of the $2 a day most of which was provided to the people who were not most in need. Now in the last 6 months, in the so-called dying era of the voluntary health scheme, they move to deprive the people most in need of the special account provisions. I shall not go on; there are other people who want to speak on this measure. I would just sum up by saying: I believe that this Bill, brought in in the dying hours of the voluntary health scheme, as the Government sees it, is symptomatic of the deceit which has been exercised by the Labor Party in relation to the health scheme ever since 2 people called Deeble and Scotton came along and said to it: 'We have got a nice tidy little compulsory socialistic scheme which you can sell to the Australian people and which will help you get back into office'. Ever since then it has been one continuous record of deceit, one continuous record of denigration of the voluntary health funds, denigration of the medical profession, denigration of the hospitals, denigration of the nursing homes - 
Yes, denigration of me. But that does not matter. That was probably the only denigration which was justified. But I am here and I am a member of this Parliament. I am paid to take this sort of thing. The people about whom I am talking are not paid to take this sort of thing. Most of them are people who are in it because they are committed and devoted to health carethe people who run the health benefit funds; the people whom the honourable member for Prospect denigrated tonight. Unlike him, they are not professional doers. They are not paid to do this.  Mr Ian  McLachlan is not paid to do his job.  Mr Anthony  Brookman is not paid to do his.  Sir Roland  Jacobs is not paid to do his. This is true of any members of the boards of voluntary health funds around Australia. Even if they wanted to be paid we provided that they were not. The Mutual Hospital Association in South 
Australia- the honourable member denigrated the people who belong to this organisation- is a good example of what these organisations have done alone. The Mutual Hospital Association was established long before the present scheme was devised, long before there was a health scheme at all because the people who established it had a feeling for the public. So let the Minister not denigrate people who are dedicated and have been working devotedly whether it be in the health funds, in the medical profession, in the nursing profession or in the hospital profession. I know of nothing so infamous in the political history of this country. This Bill is an outstanding example of what the Labor Party has been trying to do for many, many years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he provide detailed information on the number of ships of the Russian Navy which visited the Indian Ocean during the period August 1973 to date. 
If so, how many ship days did these vessels spend in the Indian Ocean. 
To what facilities in the area do ships of the Russian Navy have access. 
Has any effort been made by the U.S.S.R. to obtain access to additional facilities in the countries surrounding the Indian Ocean. 
Can he provide any details of the number of port visits made by the Russian Navy to countries surrounding the Indian Ocean. 
If people in the funds have been saying those nice things about me they have not said them to me. They might have said them to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  but I am not aware of anything of that sort being said. I start by saying that we of course applaud the Government's decision to accept the amendments of the Senate. As my colleague, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  indicated- he is overseas at present, otherwise he would be speaking in this debate- in this chamber when the Bill was originally brought in, we support those parts of the measure which were left intact by the Senate. So we welcome this move by the Government. But I must say this: What the Minister does not seem to understand when he talks about my attitude and the attitude of the Ministers in a LiberalCountry Party Government is that we believed in voluntary health insurance. We were interested in making the voluntary health insurance work. That is why we set up the Nimmo Committee. That is why in 1970 we implemented a large number of the Nimmo Committee's recommendations. But to relate a situation in relation to a government which believed in voluntary health insurance to the situation today where we have a Minister and a government who are dedicated to destroying voluntary health insurance, is absolutely absurd. 
The Minister for Social Security asked us to believe that he was motivated by good intentions in introducing this legislation and that he was doing so only in the interests of contributors. How can he expect anybody to believe that when, as I said, the measure was brought into the Parliament for the first time in the dying hours of the voluntary health scheme which for years, the Labor Party has been dedicated to destroying? It has sought for many years to control and destroy the funds and the people who run them. It has been denigrating them consistently. How can the Minister expect us to believe that he and his Government have anything but the most sinister motives in introducing measures which are designed to further control and to bring under the thumb of the Minister and the Government the voluntary health insurance funds? 
The Minister said that the measures were consistent with the Nimmo Committee's recommendations. Of course this is the way the Minister so often operates. He quoted the one measure- the most innocuous measure in the Bill that was rejected by the Senate- which was recommended by the Nimmo Committee. What about the other recommendations? When the Minister shows me a recommendation . in the Nimmo Committee report for this daylight robbery in transferring the reserves from the hospital funds to the medical funds, and when he shows me a recommendation in the Nimmo Committee report which involves the fiddling around of the special account and the pushing onto contributors of the obligations which had previously been accepted by the Government in respect of special account contributors, I will believe him, but the Minister cannnot show me such recommendations and what he says about those measures is untrue. I will not go over the ground any further. It has already been discussed in debate. I need only reiterate what I said earlier- that it is a different ball game now. We have a government hostile to voluntary health insurance and it must expect that any measure brought in in the dying hours of the scheme will meet with opposition. The Minister has been boasting once a week that this new compulsory, monolithic scheme will commence on 1 July. He has brought in measures in the dying hours to further effect his control. What he wants to do, of course, is to completely take over the voluntary health insurance funds and to use their reserves, their assets, and their personnel to ease the transition of his compulsory health scheme which we know is opposed by the Australian people. That is his motive and that is why we oppose it. 
One other matter to which I should like to refer concerns the way the Government has gone about this matter. As I have suggested, it is a cynical and a clumsy attempt to destroy the voluntary health funds for the Government's own purposes. The Minister's method was to combine in one Bill these measures related to voluntary health insurance with certain welfare measures which have a strong emotive content, including provisions for benefits for handicapped children and for the sufferers of kidney disease. These have nothing to do with the measures relating to voluntary health insurance. Indeed, as I understand it, some of these measures are the responsibility of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  yet this legislation is to be administered by the Minister for Social Security. What an extraordinary situation. Matters involving two different Ministers have been introduced in the one conglomerate Bill. It is easy to see that the expectation was that we would be coerced by the emotional overtones of these measures and the political pressures which would be brought to bear as a result of them. We would be coerced into accepting the Government's measures to take over and destroy the voluntary health insurance funds. Well, it did not work. All that has happened as a result of this cynical exercise is that these people- that is the beneficiaries of the handicapped children's benefit and the sufferers from kidney disease- have been denied benefits for some months. That is what these cynical exercises by the Government have done, but the Government does not care if people suffer if it can achieve its objectives. If evidence were needed that the Labor Government is not fit to govern and that we would be justified in sending it to the people, it is contained in this exercise. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  rants about constitutional proprieties. He did so at Question Time this morning; he is always doing so. When he and his Ministers spend their whole time conniving in these cynical, contemptuous and degrading, dirty tricks such as this exercise in this measure, it degrades the Parliament and the democratic process. It springs from a belief that they can get away with anything. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  did so in the House only half an hour ago in connection with the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. It springs from the belief that one can get away with anything by substituting a public relations exercise for honest responsible government in which the people of Australia are taken into one's confidence. By not doing so, the Government demonstrates the contempt in which it holds not only this Parliament but also the intelligence of the people of Australia. I say thank God for the Senate when we have a government such as this. Without the Senate I believe this Government would have completely destroyed democracy in Australia by this time. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What applications have been received by his Department, from any group or organisation in the electoral Division of Barker, in relation to Australian Assistance Plans. 
What projects in the Division are being supported by his Department. 
What funds have been made available through his Department to any group or organisation in the Division. 
What is the total sum involved for these projects. 
What applications from any group or organisation in the city of Adelaide are currently before his Department in relation to Australian Assistance Plans. 
How many have been approved, and what sum is involved. 
I will not delay the House long over this Bill. It has been introduced into the House for a second time, and it has been debated before. But I must remind the House that it is a Bill designed to destroy the legislative arrangements which give the voluntary health scheme, as we know it, its existence. As the House and the Australian people know, the Opposition has consistently opposed what it believes to be an act of sheer vandalism, and has opposed it on both practical and philosophical grounds. The Opposition believes that it is supported in this action by a majority of the Australian people and it sees no reason to change its attitude on this Bill which is designed to administer the final coup de grace to the voluntary health scheme. Therefore it will oppose the Bill. 
I should perhaps remind the House of the contents of the Bill. It prohibits the payment of Commonwealth benefits after a date to be proclaimed. It makes it illegal for organisations to continue to provide health insurance from a date to be proclaimed. The penalty will be $1,000 a day. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has told us that the health funds will subsequently be re-registered, if they want to be, to provide benefits for intermediate and private hospital care, but we have not yet seen the legislation to do this. Given the consistent denigration and sheer hatred and vituperation which the Minister for Social Security has heaped on to the health funds, the Opposition could be forgiven for questioning whether that particular piece of legislation which will permit the private health funds to re-register will ever see the light of day. 
Nevertheless, in this legislation we are being asked to give to the Government a blanket power to prohibit the private health insurance funds from carrying on business after a date which the Government is able to choose at will. It authorises the Health Insurance Commission to carry on health insurance to ensure that contributors to funds which cannot meet their obligations are covered. In other words, the Government by its actions, bit by bit over the 2 years it has been in office, has forced many of the funds into a situation where there is a great deal of probability that they will not be able to meet their commitments. It has introduced this measure as a sort of rescue operation. The Bill provides for the Government to take over the funds' liability for nursing home benefits and, finally, it repeals the National Health Act insofar as it related to the voluntary health insurance scheme. 
The Minister for Social Security has been threatening everybody. He has been threatening the doctors, the hospitals and the private health insurance funds. This is his way of doing things. In his second reading speech on this Bill in his customary manner he threatened the Opposition that a failure to pass particularly some provisions of the Bill could cause loss and hardship to individuals and that the public would hold the Opposition responsible if that happened. The Opposition totally and absolutely rejects that proposition. The Government is introducing a health scheme which does not have the support of the Australian people. It is introducing it without first ensuring that it has the co-operation of the key people and institutions which are essential in the operation of any health scheme. There is a good reason, apart from the fact that many of these people have no faith in the scheme, why there is this resistance from doctors, private hospitals and most of the States. Do not let us forget the States because so far four of the States have not been prepared to make agreements in relation to the hospitals scheme. It is this process of confrontation and alienation which the Minister so consistently adopts which has been the principal cause of bringing about this situation. 
Would a person co-operate if he were a doctor and he were constantly being told by the Minister for Social Security that he was a parasite? The Minister is continually accusing the medical profession right across the board of performing operations just for the sake of making money. I could instance many other charges which he has levelled at the medical profession. Would a person co-operate? Would he have any faith in the Minister's calls to enter into the scheme? Would he have any faith in the Minister's undertaking, for instance, to retain fee-for-service payments? I would not. I think that the medical profession is right in not having that faith in the Minister from the way he has behaved. The same thing applies to the States, the private hospitals and the health funds. If a person were running a health fundsome of them are great funds which came into existence long before any government health scheme existed- and he has been subjected to the sort of denigration and imputations of bad faith and motives that have been made, would he have any faith in the Minister's assurances? 
The point I am making is that the Government is introducing this health scheme- it is committed to introduce it from 1 July- without assuring itself of the co-operation, even at the most elementary level, of those whose support and cooperation is absolutely fundamental to making it work. The scheme is unlikely to have the administrative structure, such as computers in running order, in time to start by 1 July on an efficient basis. The Minister says that it will have it. That remains to be seen. All my experience and everything I have heard leads me to believe that it will not. 
The Government has commenced an expensive and misleading publicity campaign which will have the effect of undermining private health insurance and, in particular, the willingness of people to keep up their contributions. It is quite obvious to me, having observed the first part of this publicity campaign, that apart from being misleading it will create enormous confusion in people's minds as to what they are now required to do. By not following the traditional practice of increasing Commonwealth benefits to cover proper increases in medical fees but making the contributors carry the can for what is the Government's obligation, and with the Minister putting pressure on the reserves of the fund, the Government, as I said earlier, will increase the likelihood of the funds not being able to meet their obligations even before Medibank comes into operation on 1 July. 
There will be absolute and complete chaos on 1 July, and subsequently, if the Government goes ahead with its intention to introduce its Medibank scheme on that date. It must surely be one of the most irresponsible acts in the history of government to undermine and destroy a scheme which has worked well for many years without ensuring that the elements essential to the working of the alternative scheme are properly thrashed out and are functioning smoothly, particularly the administrative arrangements and the co-operation of the key people and institutions on which its successful functioning depends. It does not matter whether these institutions are right or wrong in their attitudes. That is not what I am debating at this point though I would be perfectly prepared to do so, What I am saying is that whether these institutions are right or wrong the Government is grossly irresponsible in introducing a new scheme before resolving issues created by its attitude. In my view the public will blame the Government solely for the deliberate way in which it will create the chaos that will inevitably come in medical and health services. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has followed his usual line of appearing to be a reasonable individual. He has cited what he alleges to. be the law. He has covered himself and protected his own personal political position by what I would call a dubious practice for a Minister in quoting some instruction which he has given to his Department and which may well result in a miscarriage of the intention which he purported to have or which he suggested was his intention when he gave the instruction. That is typical of the Minister. All through his political career he has been interested only in saving his own skin and protecting himself rather than the interests of the Australian people and the Australian taxpayers. That is what he has been doing since he became responsible for immigration, in dismantling a lot of the worst excesses of his predecessor,  Mr Grassby.  In fact it is well known that the Minister has told many people that on no account will he be held responsible for a lot of the things which Grassby did, like the consequences of the easy visa scheme. 
-I do not blame him in that case. I disagreed with a lot that  Mr Grassby  did. For once the Minister is right, I believe, in dismantling some of the excesses of  Mr Grassby,  such as the easy visa scheme. But it is consistent with his action in this case that he should not care a damn about his own Government or the Australian public. He is just trying to protect his own personal political position. This is characteristic of the Minister in relation to almost everything he does. I am not prepared to give him credence for what he has been saying. I do not believe a lot of what he says. I never believe the honourable gentleman. If there is anybody in this House who is an archetype of the cynical politician it is the present Minister for Labor and Immigration. I believe that he has no basic convictions. He is interested only in power and the survival of himself and his own Government 
In reference to the point of order, the honourable gentleman has spent his whole parliamentary career casting aspersions on the motives, character and everything else of other people. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the present parlous state in which the British national health scheme finds itself due to the fact that it is entirely tax financed and thus medical care and standards have become subject to the vagaries of annual budgets? Will the Medibank scheme be entirely tax financed? Will the Minister explain how, with a Budget deficit of not less than $2,769m for the first 8 months of this year, Medibank will not be subject to the same shortage of funds and therefore decline in  standardswhentheGovernmentfinallyhasto  face up to its financial responsibilities in the next Budget? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) Do his remarks to the National Congress of the RSL on 28 October 1974 mean that the Naval design capability which has been developed in Australia over many years will now not be exercisedin the development and design ships for the Royal Australian Navy, and that this valuable expertise will no longer be actively developed. 
Is it the intention of the Government that the naval shipbuilding capability should decline into little more than a ship repair activity so that the ability to build warships in Australia as distinct from less complex ships such as survey vessels, etc, will be lost or, at best diminished. 
-I want to take a 'few minutes to register my agreement with the remarks made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  about the war service land settlement scheme. I register too my surprise at the difference between the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the soldier settlement scheme when in Government as compared with its attitude when in Opposition. As a member whose electorate covers most of the soldier settlement schemes in South Australia I had a good deal of sympathy and support for the attempts which the Labor Party made when in Opposition to have a select committee set up. In those years when the then Opposition moved a motion for the appointment of a select committee, despite the fact that in many cases it was more than 20 years after the scheme was introduced, as has been indicated by speakers in this debate considerable question marks and difficulties surrounded aspects of the scheme in some parts of Australia and some individuals who had property under the scheme. But Government members having shown that particular sympathy when in Opposition, when they came into Government do not even bother to speak in this debate, as my colleagues have said, let alone initiate in Government the action that they proposed in Opposition. 
I would like to place it on record that I have made numerous representations to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  as he is now called, about a particular group of disadvantaged settlers in my electorate. I refer to those on Kangaroo Island. I have got absolutely nowhere with the Minister. Despite these numerous representations, I have run up against a brick wall. The Minister has just parried every suggestion made by the settlers and by me to alleviate their difficulties. He has refused to visit Kangaroo Island. He has never accepted my offer to wait on him and to put the case for these settlers to him personally rather than to render it to him in writing. Again it shows an enormous contrast with the attitude that the Labor Party expressed when in Opposition. It can be contrasted with one of the last acts of the honourable member for New England before the coalition Government went out of office. At my request he visited Kangaroo Island to discuss with the settlers there their problems and to introduce initial and concrete proposals to alleviate their difficulties. He admitted publicly to them and to this House that what he had done was only a start. But it was something and it was carried into force. As I said, all of my attempts to persuade the present Minister to continue with the course which the honourable member for New England had proposed following have run up against a brick wall. 
I promised to take only 5 minutes in this debate, but I felt that I must register on behalf of my soldier settler constituents the disappointment I feel at the lack of progress in relation to this matter. I would like to take another minute to make one other point to the House. Since they have been on their properties the soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island- this applies to other settlers in my electorate and other settlers throughout Australia- have been able to lead a reasonable life. They have had their ups and downs, as has everybody in the farming community. But if one looks at their indebtedness and their accounts situation- this is particularly so of many of the settlers on Kangaroo Island- one sees behind the facade. Most of them are now in their early 60s or even older- an age at which most people think about retiring. After 25 to 30 years of backbreaking work, many of them are in debt to the tune of $40,000, $50,000, $60,000 or even more. They have properties which are completely incapable of supporting anybody but themselves. They have no chance whatsoever of doing what most farmers expect to be able to do; that is, to improve their properties or to accumulate to such an extent that they can assist their sons on to the land. The end result for many of these farmers after 25 to 30 years of being in this scheme will be that they will walk off their properties when they are no longer physically capable of continuing any longer, with absolutely nothing and go on to the pension. 
-Probably with less than they started off with, as the honourable member for Wimmera says. It shows that there is a defect in the scheme, and it is something which should be taken into account. We have asked the Government to set up an inquiry, to look into the problem or to take remedial measures. The scheme should not produce that sort of result. It indicates some basic weakness or defect. When we were in Government we chose, in conjunction with the agent States, the properties that would be used in the scheme. Even though that is so, it does not make any difference to the situation, which our Government did from time to time move to alleviate. But, when we have a situation in which people will have to walk off their properties with nothing after 30 years of back-breaking work, there is something wrong and something needs to be done. I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1463 (Hansard, 27 November 1974, page 42 17) how many of the officers referred to in part (2 ) of the answer are lawyers. 
How many lawyers are employed (a) part-time and (b) full-time on defence procurement from the United States of America in (i) the Department of Defence and (ii) the Attorney-General 's Department. 
How many lawyers were employed (a) part-time and (b) full-time on defence procurement from the United States of America in (i) the Department of Defence and (ii) the Attorney-General's Department as at 30 June 1971, 31 December 1971, 30 June 1972, 31 December 1972, 30 June 1973, 3 1 December 1973 and 30 June 1974. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In the interests of the wool industry will he come down from the lofty heights in which he resides and give a straight answer to the question asked yesterday by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia? Does his Government intend to support the wool industry on a continuing basis or not? 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What applications have been received by his Department, from any group or organisation in the Electoral Division of Barker, in relation to sport and recreation. 
What projects in the Division are being supported by his Department. 
What is the total sum involved for these projects. 
What funds have been made available through his Department to any group or organisation in the Division. 
What applications from any group or organisation in the City of Adelaide are currently before his Department in relation to sport and recreation. 
How many have been approved, and what sum is involved. 
What applications from any group or organisation are currently before his Department in this regard. 
When will decisions be made concerning them. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What applications have been received by his Department, from any group or organisation in the Electoral Division of Barker, in relation to urban and regional development. 
What projects in the Division are being supported by his Department. 
) What is the total sum involved for these projects. 
What funds have been made available through his De- 'partment to any group or organisation in the Division. 
What applications from any group or organisation in the city of Adelaide are currently before his Department in relation to urban and regional development 
How many have been approved, and what sum is involved. 
What applications from any group or organisation are currently before bis Department in this regard. 
8 ) When will decisions be made concerning them. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many public servants have been asked to seek information about Opposition members of Parliament which might be damaging to those members. 
