-I ask the Treasurer a  question.In view of the fact that notices have been directed to Commonwealth public servants that deductions from their salaries for the purpose of meeting home loan repayments are to be discontinued, will the Treasurer, in the light of the Government's intention to seek the co-operation of employers in deducting health insurance payments from salaries, reconsider the matter of home loan repayments so that deductions may continue rather than cease at a time when there is an ever increasing desire to apply a deduction system in industry and in some State departments? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will be, in the same way as he confers with representatives of business and workers' organisations, agree to meet representatives of pensioner organisations to hear their views in relation to their financial predicament. 
If so, will he also give consideration to allowing these organisations travel expenses to and from Canberra. 

 - Mr Speaker, firstly I want to thank the electors of Sturt for electing me to this House as a member of the only national political party in Australia. Before dealing with honourable members on the Government side of the House for some short period of time in the manner in which they have seen fit to carry on since I have been in this chamber, I want to refer to the suggestion of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  about writing another national anthem for Australia and including the words 'God Bless the Queen and Australia'. He should also include 'God Bless the Federal Parliament'. If we have to listen to speeches such as he has just made we will need God to save us. 
I want to deal with the problems of my electorate which is in metropolitan Adelaide in South Australia. It is at the moment developing far faster than any other area. Because of this development one is reminded each hour of the day and night, when one wanders through the electorate, of the inadequacies of this Government in the field of State finances. Sludge from septic systems has been allowed to run down the streets there over a period of years because this Government has not measured up to its responsibilities towards local government organisations in South Australia. What good is it to go to the local council which can go only so far in a short time and expend money that it has. Of course, local councils are then forced to borrow at very high interest rates and to arrange loan programmes to continue necessary works. 
There is a high percentage of young home owners in the electorate and they, of course, have the burden of establishing new homes. The homes savings grant that this Government introduced some years ago has never passed the needs and the requirements of the younger members of the community today. The Bill that is about to come before the House in relation to the grant will do nothing to remedy the situation. The Government can take no honour or credit for that. There is a complete lack of services in many parts of the metropolitan area of Adelaide as a result of this Government misunderstanding the requirements of people. 
The honourable member for Kingston dealt with the question of education tonight so there is no need for me to discuss that matter. There are social service inadequacies that would take me some hours to relate to the House. I suppose, from the point of view hat has been expressed by members on the other side of the House, that one would be wasting one's time in attempting to do so because they are completely out of touch, completely out of contact with the electoral problems of the Commonwealth today. That was why so many of them in South Australia lost their seats at the last election. Recently in Canberra the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  met delegations from business interests in Australia, as he so often does, to hear their point of view. This was followed by a meeting with the  president  and officers of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. They also came up to Canberra to put their views. 1 thought that something ought to be done for that fairly large percentage of the overlooked members of this community who are completely reliant upon government handouts for their very existence. I sent the following telegram off to the Prime Minister: 
In view of the fact that recently representatives of all business interests and in addition a delegation of workers' representatives have placed their views before you I urge that you meet representatives of the various pensioner organisations in order to permit them to present their views regarding the falling standard of living forced upon them by the ever increasing cost of living and lower purchasing power of their low pension rate. Recognising that pensioner organisations have not sufficient funds to permit travel to Canberra I suggest further that assistance in this regard be made available to recognised representatives of these organisations by the Commonwealth. All in the community are no doubt aware that people in this category are unable to present their case before any wage or cost of living tribunal and have to rely solely on infrequent handouts by the federal Government. 
In due course it came to be placed on the notice paper. I received a reply to question No. 268, which was phrased somewhat differently from the telegram, but in which 1 asked the Prime Minister: 
Will he, in the same way as he confers with representatives of business and workers' organisations, agree to meet representatives of pensioner organisations to hear their views in relation to their financial predicament. 
If so, will he also give consideration to allowing these organisations travel expenses to and from Canberra. 
The Prime Minister's reply was as follows: (it) The Government confers with representatives of various national organisations on a regular basis in order to keep itself informed of the views on developments in the economy of those who are actively engaged in commerce and industry. 
And I am talking about pensioners - 
These consultations are not to enable representatives to put views to the Government on the needs and wants of their own particular organisations 
Not much - and are therefore not analogous to the kind of meeting you suggest. However, Government Ministers have from time to time received deputations representing pensioners in order to hear their views. In addition written submissions are received from various pensioner organisations, and indeed from a great variety of organisations, about their needs and wants. These have been and will continue to be given the utmost consideration by the Government in preparing the Budget each year. 
It is not the Government's intention to change the practice of not providing travel expenses to and from Canberra for deputations. 
I want to take honourable members minds back to the second last paragraph which states: 
These have been and will continue to be given the utmost consideration by the Government in preparing the Budget each year. 
In other words, what the Prime Minister is ignoring - and he is not in the House tonight - is that the cost of living increases that have been inflicted upon these people over the last few months are completely ignored, and he could not care less. Nor could his Government care less. They go to the people and say that they have a social service policy. This is the most typical hypocritical thing in the world to say. It is absolutely hypocritical. This is the Government that claims to have done so much for the pensioners down through the years. Its contributions so far in giving a grant for the provision of homes for the aged is also hypocritical as is its party which forces pensioners, if they want to go into these homes, to sell . . . 
Because this system forces people who have homes of their own - and of course this is particularly where only a single pensioner is concerned - they are induced by this scheme to sell up their property and pay $2,000, $2,500 and sometimes $3,000 to get into these places. This is no more than what I would describe as key money. 
In fact the previous member representing this electorate - a member of a board - had the effrontery to have letters sent to aged women - women as old as 85 years - a week before this federal election threatening them with expulsion and eviction into the streets. It is all right perhaps for the honourable member for La Trobe to take this point of order against me and to say that I am being provocative. I have told the facts of life. 
Now, let me deal again with the hypocritical attitude of this Government in regard to the means test Honourable members opposite have no regard for the people whom they purport to represent. In November 1969 a letter was sent to the Prime Minister from a pensioner organisation in the Commonwealth asking questions on the means test. The Prime Minister replied as follows: 
You will be aware that in my policy speech . . . 
I might say at this point that when the Prime Minister was addressing the electors at a public meeting in Perth during his campaign he referred to them as an Adelaide audience. He was somewhat out of touch with geography. It is all right to go on with this type of thing, I suppose, when you forget what your policy speech is and you do not have a policy. You even forget where you are standing. The Prime Minister said: 
You will be aware that in my policy speech I said that the government would continue to make general improvements in the Social Welfare field as and when we can responsibly do so, without causing inflation or increasing the tax burden. I also mentioned that the government regards the task of increasing the help given to poor families as being of greater importance than the abolition of the Means Test. 
The fact that the means test is applicable makes them poor and the Prime Minister cannot even recognise that. 
Coming away from that situation, we have heard much being said by the Country Party members about defence because they do not want to talk about the rural population. They have been turning the cheek for 4 or 5 years. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  came into the House the other night and delivered a tirade against the Opposition. The Minister may be referred to as molecule because after all I suppose he has little substance. However, the fact is that the Country Party stands here today and suggests that there ought to be a general blessing so far as the rural industries are concerned. The Prime Minister, in a speech that he delivered the other day to the Australian Mining Industry Council, boosted up what we were going to get out of minerals and said that we would no longer be required to be carted along on the wheat and the wool situation. He seems to be somewhat out of step with his Country Party colleagues. 
I would not be opposed to the amount of money that is being poured into the country if I thought that ultimately it would do a great deal of good particularly in the provincial cities scattered throughout the length and breadth of Australia. I do not see the mineral boom as being our salvation, as the Prime Minister does. In a project like Hamersley, while it is producing great wealth and extremely high profits - remember 'Dig a Million, Make a Million' on Channel 2 - it does not employ very many people at all from the time they put the hole in the ground until the Japanese get the iron at the port of loading. What concerns me is that when we get to the situation where we are not selling the products of the rural community, then a larger amount of the community is affected than would be affected by a mineral project. That is what is important to me. 
It seems to me that the Country Party has led these people by the nose for years. It owns radio stations and newspapers and it has been brain washing them for ages. It is very difficult to help people in the community who are not prepared to help themselves. The old farmer and the wheat and wool growers are taken by the Country Party like the farmer takes a strainer post in the corner paddock. He puts it in the ground, strains it up tight, and it is there for ever and a day. These people have not been taken into consideration yet the Government tells us that it has done so. It should go amongst the people it represents and tell them how they are being sold down the drain by the bounty system given to the fertiliser companies, ft is all very well for Bombshell Barnes of Bougainville- 
I shall withdraw the remark,  Mr Speaker,  and I would suggest that the Minister not be so provocative.  Mr Minister,  you- 
The farming community today is nol being told by the people who represent them who is fleecing them. The Conference Lines of ship owners started off in the 17th century as pirates on the high seas, and they are pirates today to every man and woman in this community. What did this Government do about it? The Leader of the Country Party trotted off overseas with a black bag in his hand and with £stg40m or $40m in dollar bills to buy into the Conference Lines at the same time as the Russian shipping line was putting into Australian ports and saying that they were prepared to carry the wool of this country for 15% less than the Conference Lines would. This is true. The other shipping interests endeavoured to to gang up on them but they were not successful. I made a prediction the day I was in Sydney when there was something of an argument about this. The prediction came true. Whilst that was going on, what was said by the Conference Lines ship owners, the old pirates who ought to be tugging their forelocks and straightening their smocks every now and again, because their thinking is so old? They said to anybody who dared ship through the Russian shipping line that they would put a surcharge of about 30#&gt; on the wool so that they could not ship with that line. But what happened? These anti-Socialists on my left saw the Russian shipping line, and the Russians entered the Conference Lines. 
This afternoon the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  asked a question in this House. He has seen fit to make great play of the fact that 4 members of the Vietnam Committee in Adelaide had resigned. 1 was rather interested, because the honourable member for Angas had written a letter to the Secretary of the Vietnam Committee,  Dr Bluett,  quite recently and the letter revealed that he had some doubts about the Government's present policy in relation to Vietnam. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
In addition to all these matters, honourable members opposite see fit to drag out the old Communist bogey once again. They attempted to drag it out during the recent elections but the Prime Minister was advised by some of the Press at that time to put it well away. It seems to be the only thing that they can hitch onto. Honourable members are saying a lot about trade unions and the like. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  recently attacked the Leader of the Opposition in regard to this matter. I recall the statements of a previous  speaker  who made a great play about the individuality of members of the Party opposite. He has forgotten  Mr St.  John who took an independent stand an the opposite side of this House and the Government did everything it could to ensure that he was not returned to this chamber, lt is no good the previous  speaker  saying that none of us would run that risk. 1 want to quote from the Minister's speech about the easing of the merino export embargo. That was not something that the Government thought up. it was something that the industry recommended to the Government. It asked the Government to implement a partial lifting of the merino export ban. We will forget about the rest of the contents of the Minister's rather lengthy speech and turn to the last paragraph. He said: 
But today we see the rather appalling position where the alternative Prime Minister of this country has been inching trade unions to act against a Government. 
That means taking control out of the Government's hands by using trade unions as a weapon. Relate that to the first paragraph and it is contradictory and completely so. The Minister said in the first paragraph that it was not a Government decision, and he is more than inferring there that it was some organisation within the primary industry that did it. He quite boldly goes along with it and says that this is the correct and the proper thing to do. But at the end of his speech he thinks of Bob Hawke and he starts to lose his balance, as it were, and goes off to the other end of the line. On that particular aspect he became contradictory. 
I have received letters from spastic children's organisations in areas adjacent to my electorate asking me to raise in this House the problem of these unfortunate children born with deformities. The organisations are fearful that any measures which this Government might bring down will discriminate against such children and prevent them from receiving the benefits to which they are entitled, forcing the organisations to rely heavily on public subscriptions. This has been a government of discrimination - discrimination against migrants, discrimination against the farmer, discrimination against the worker, discrimination against the pensioner and discrimination in the matter of defence. Fancy this Government saying anything about defence. If it were true in 1963 that Australia urgently needed the Fill, the present ministry must be the most guilty collection of men ever to sit on the Treasury bench - even more guilty than the Tory Government, if 1 may so describe it, which was in office at the outbreak of the Second World War. Government supporters have often alleged that the Labor Party was not interested in the defence of this country until Russia became involved in the war. What rubbish. Government supporters have criticised the Fortress Australia concept. I remind those who sit opposite that it was Fortress Britain that saved the world. Mark you that. At one time during the last great conflict the only active front anywhere in the world was that patch of sand, dust and rock called 'Tobruk'. It also was regarded as a fortress. 
Honourable members opposite have reflected on trade union ballots. How many Government supporters know how the votes were cast in the election of their Prime Minister? We are led to believe that only 3 men saw the completed ballot papers. Honourable members opposite do not know whether they got the leader for whom they voted. Who checked the votes? Nobody. Do not tell me that they were without dissension on that day. They most certainly had dissension on that day. So they should not cast aspersions on people on this side of the House when they in fact have not done their own hair. 
I desire to support the Bill, but with some considerable reservations. Before I go on to deal with particular aspects of the Bill I want to say that this is the second time the Government has seen fit to gag the debate on this Bill. The Meals on Wheels service in South Australia was commenced by Miss Doris Taylor, who was previoulsy mentioned by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and who herself was confined to a wheel chair. The original finance for the organisation came from the trade union movement in South Australia, and the donations for the cannisters and equipment that were necessary for the provision of the meals in those early stages also came from that source. 
I  regard the Bill as totally inadequate. A previous  speaker  put his finger on the crux of the matter when he said that the Government ought to be providing more resources for these dedicated people in the community and ought to be accepting more responsibility by providing funds so that proper research can be carried out into the needs of the community. As I understand it, it was not so long ago that the Minister for Social Services - [ would pray that he would correct me if I am wrong - endeavoured to prevail upon Cabinet and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to increase social welfare benefits. But he did not succeed. If the Minister recognises the needs of the community, for which his Department is responsible - and he honestly does recognise them - and if he puts them before his Cabinet and his colleagues knock him back and his Prime Minister will not accept his proposals, he ought to resign, and thus show his sincerity, as a protest at the manner in which the needs of the Department which he is in charge of have been rejected. That would be the correct procedure. If I were in his position I do not think I would have lo resign. I do not think 1 would have colleagues so unthinkable and unbending as those in .the Cabinet. 
I now come to the Bill. A subsidy ought to be provided to Meals on Wheals organisations for adequate buildings and adequate kitchen staff, but the subsidy ought to be more than that proposed in the Bill. Not long before Miss Taylor died she made plans not only to increase the Meals on Wheels services but also to set up a similar type of organisation to cater for many of the needs for which aged people in the community encounter in their day to day life. She had in mind a laundry service which was to be centrally placed in an area where there was and still is a great need for such a service. She told me on one occasion that one of her helpers in delivering the meals was unable to get into a room in which an old lady was bedridden because when she had closed the  door something had happened to the lock. Situations such as this still occur. They had great difficulty in getting into that room. Miss Taylor would have dearly loved to have set up some sort of framework for an organisation to attend to these very necessary but very small things that crop up from time to time in a household. 
But the Government that sits in this place, and which is supposed to look after the aged and the welfare of the community, had to wait almost 20 years before it recognised that these organisations were doing a very good job. But more serious than that is the fact that it took the Government almost 20 years to recognise the needs of the community in this regard. After 20 years and after the death of the person who had set up the Meals on Wheels organisation in South Australia the Government has jumped on the bandwaggon and submitted this Bill to the House, thinking that it is doing everything that ought to be done in the interests of the people in this category. This shows the complete lack of initiative on the part of the honourable members opposite. It shows that they do not move amongst the community that they profess to represent. 
I mentioned this last night, but in case the message did not get through I repeat that honourable members  opposite do not move around their electorates. 1 see a minister of religion laughing. So help me God! He is a person who professes to be a minister of religion and he ought to know the needs of the more unfortunate people in the community, but the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  can only sit in his place and laugh as though it is a great, joke. Tt might be to him, but it is not to members on this side of the chamber. 
Attorneys-General will come last on my list. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that ships of trade respect marker buoys set by fishermen in coastal waters in order to prevent further loss of valuable equipment. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether there is widespread belief among organisations representative of professional engineers and trade unions that the Commonwealth Government and its instrumentalities unduly influence the decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
To guard against this possibility, will he give an assurance that in future the Government will not attempt to unduly influence the Commission by (a) issuing economy statements which could have that effect, (b) using the term 'in the public interest which may be taken in a misleading way and (c) regarding impending decisions of the Commission as having a detrimental effect on the economy which may he taken to imply that the Government is opposed to an increase compatible with the cases presented by employee organisations. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of the agreement between the AEWL, the ACTU and the WWF providing for 4 weeks- 
Honourable members opposite have been out of the chamber all night. 
Most members of the Australian Country Party have been out of the chamber all night. However,  Mr Chairman,  1 do not want to waste my time on them. I want to draw the attention of this House to a shocking state of affairs. A member of this House representing a South Australian seat, who sat on the Chowilla Promotion Committee and agreed for years with everything that Committee said, sees fit to enter this debate tonight and has the hypocrisy to vote to gag members on this side of the House and from the very State from which he comes in order to prevent them entering this debate. 
I support the amendment for the reason that the Government and those responsible for the passage of this Bill through the House have been shocking in their neglect of what ought to be said in the House about the provisions of the Bill. I am amazed to think that the time that has been permitted for the passage of this Bill is so short that even normal questions would not be answered by anybody on the other side of the House who is responsible for the passage of this Bill. We on this side of the House have not said in any shape or form that we were opposed to the building of Dartmouth Dam. We have not stuck our heads in the sand and considered Chowilla, and Chowilla alone. 
We on this side of the House recognise that the completion of the Dartmouth Dam can take some considerable number of years. During the course of those years we could be in trouble in South Australia. If we get a dry year the whole stretch of the Murray River in South Australia will become almost nothing more than a polluted holding storage. It will become a vast holding storage for polluted water. We of course want to see a study undertaken, as it ought to have been undertaken, on the basis of what known facts can be used in a computer as against the false programming of the computer which led to the Government's changing its mind. The Premier of South Australia, who assumed office a little more than 2 years ago, and whose signature appears on the Agreement, fought the elections in South Australia 2 years ago by emphasising to the people that a Liberal Government would build the Chowilla dam, and saw fit to cast criticism on anybody who may have even suggested that that may not be the case. What then has caused the Premier of South Australia to change his mind? He wants to hold an election in a few weeks with this matter as an issue. Those on this side of the House will be quite happy about that. 
The State of South Australia is completely reliant on waters from the River Murray. If honourable members were able to visualise the system of water pipelines that go from the River Murray from Morgan and Mannum they would see it looks like 2 giant octopuses stretched throughout the State and extending from the River Murray right into Woomera. Honourable members opposite ask why then should we be concerned about the matter that has been mentioned in this House tonight. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has been quite dishonest tonight in his approach to the matter. I would like to quote- 
He did not. 
I rise tonight to accuse this Government of having this afternoon instituted a debate which is nothing more than a smoke-screen to cover up its own mistakes across the board- 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has any instruction ever been Issued by him or his Department that subsidies cannot be paid to organisations for the erection of homes for the aged where .a legal obligation is embodied in any agreement between sponsors of homes and the occupants to repay any portion of an occupant's donation, in the event of the occupant desiring to vacate the home for any reason. 
If so, what was the date and purpose of the instruction. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. What loss will the Commonwealth suffer following the disaster to the 'Amanda Miller' as a result of the fire at Whyalla? Will this be the greatest loss by fire which the Commonwealth ever suffered? Has the Commonwealth ever inspected the fire procedures at this largest shipyard in Australia and, if so, when? 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that his comments about inflationary tendencies within the housing sector have been based primarily on statistics for housing approvals and not commencements? Is it not a fact that approvals indicate what the Prime Minister would call potentially inflationary tendencies and not actual inflationary tendencies? Is it not a fact that the recent increase in interest rates is affecting the housing industry out of all proportion to the potential tendencies that exist within that industry? Does this not mean that the Government is using the housing sector to control inflationary tendencies elsewhere in the economy and that this is in complete contradiction to the policies advocated by the honorable gentleman when he was the Minister for Housing? 
During the course of the last week or so th.- following question on notice regarding a matter of education was submitted: 
ls it a fact that there is a growing crisis in education in South Australia, particularly at the primary and secondary levels, and that the State is unable to meet pressing demands in the areas of building, transport, teacher training, administrative costs and salaries. 
Has his attention been drawn to the views of education experts thai the situation is the direct consequence of the lack of Commonwealth finance at all levels of education. 
If so, will he immediately recommend a special purpose grant of $20m the allocation of which to be the sole responsibility of the State . . . 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  to whom the question was directed, answered: 
and (2) For some years the school systems of all States have been faced with rapid increases in enrolments. During the past decade primary enrolments in government schools have increased by 50% while secondary enrolments have increased by 150%. 
There are 2 areas where help is required now. It is a truism to say that there is not an education authority in the Commonwealth that is not crying out for more money for immediate and urgent needs, lt is equally true to say that the State education authorities and their Governments, whatever their Party complexions, are finding State financial resources quite inadequate to meet new and multiplying demands. Indeed, in the fields of teacher training, buildings, media facilities and equipment State departments are still trying to cope with a backlog of requirements caused by the post-war population increases as well as with the pressures of contemporary growth. 
Since the end of World War II there have been many inquiries, much research both here and abroad, visits and return visit's of education administrators and practising teachers at home and all around the world, and ceaseless representations to governments on education matters by teacher organisations. The one common denominator that emerges from all these activities is a seemingly unanimous opinion and conclusion that the urgent problems of education can be solved only by the injection of massive Federal financial aid to State education systems. As it now seems abundantly clear that this desirable end can only be achieved by the advent of a Labor administration in the Commonwealth, it is nevertheless possible that this Government, lacking an overall national education policy and with its well-known penchant for piecemeal and patchwork remedies, might consider the granting of special aid in 2 areas of very special need in the field of education. These 2 areas of need are considered by members of the teaching profession to be of the utmost urgency and well within the capacity of the Commonwealth. 
I refer, firstly, to the teachers' case for the extension of the library grants scheme to primary schools. The South Australian Institute of Teachers has circularised South Australian members of Parliament emphasising the desirability and urgency of this. It points out that the increasing emphasis on individual teaching in primary schools means that resource facilities such as books, films, recordings, charts and autoinstructional programmes should be readily available in sufficient quantity to provide for the needs of each child. These are expensive enough to be outside the capacity, in spite of subsidy systems, of State Departments of Education and there are still many parts of the Commonwealth where there are few central libraries, even poorly equipped ones, in primary schools at all. The South Australian Institute goes on to say: 
It is vital to the development of the individual child that the necessary facilities be available, not only in secondary schools, but also during the formative years of primary schooling. 
In 1966 the Children's Libraries Section of the Library Association of Australia recommended the expenditure of $31,000 over a period of 10 years on the supplying of books in each school with more than 1,000 pupils on the basis of 10 books per pupil. Thereafter would come maintenance and renewal costs. They also recommended a 10 year plan to establish libraries in smaller schools of 300 pupils with an inaugural grant of 10 books per pupil at an average cost of $2 per book. In neither case has provision been made for buildings or rooms to house the library facilities. 
In the light of these costs, the following comments in a report published last year by the American Library Association and the National Education Association of the United Slates of America might well apply to Australia: 
It is important that every media facility, piece of equipment, book or material bc selected, produced and used so that the students in our schools are challenged to a dynamic participation in a free, exciting and enriched life. Education of high quality is expensive, but far more cosily is the waste of human resources in poorly educated students whose talents are lost to this nation. 
I referred earlier to the lack of an overall national education policy on the part of this Government. In 1969 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in a statement publishing Labor's education aims in the journal of the South Australian Institute of Teachers, said it was his opinion that the Government Parties sought continuously to dampen public interest in education matters by their denial of a critical situation in education and by resisting demands for a national inquiry into education. Now, in 1 970, the Government Parties are still more interested in palliatives than policies that go to the roots of the matter. But if palliatives are the best - and they seem to be - that the people of Australia can expect from the Government, I would draw their attention in addition to the matter I have spoken of with regard to the extension of the library grants scheme to primary schools, to another area of the education scene in South Australia where urgent action is needed. This is the provision of more, and more easily accessible, special classes and centres with the trained teachers and equipment necessary for the retarded and lower capacity child. lt is a fact that the presence of these children in normal primary school classes makes their own progress almost impossible and makes the work of the teacher and the progress of the other children in the class extremely difficult. This is a besetting problem in many primary schools in my own State and causes considerable concern among teachers and parents of retarded children. The problems of retardation in South Australian schools are handled by a Psychology Branch within the Education Department. It is staffed by highly skilled and dedicated people. But there are far too few of them and they are under-financed and under-equipped. The result is that many children in desperate need of urgent remedial treatment in one or another area of their learning life suffer grave injustices. Only last year a 9-year-old boy at a small private primary school in Adelaide, for whom urgent remedial treatment to offset his retardation was considered necessary, was refused admission to a special class, presumably because the Psychology Branch could not physically accommodate him, or because he attended a private school. Surely a Government which can find funds to build science blocks for private schools already richly endowed, can find money to alleviate the desperately urgent problems of retardation in all our schools, public and private. I would suggest that a special annual grant, earmarked for this purpose and based on a cost assessment by the State department concerned, would be of untold value in this particular field. 
I urge on the Government a prompt and serious consideration of the 2 matters I have mentioned. In doing so J would point out that this country's expenditure per head on education in relation to its gross national product is still well below that of other comparable countries, ft compares with that of Afghanistan. This is certainly something of which we cannot be proud, something about which we cannot be complacent. The quality of the education we give our children will, in the long run, decide the future of our country. If it is the best we give them, we need have no fear that, if the country is attacked, no-one will have to be conscripted to defend it. 
While referring to the State of South Australia during the course of this very short speech, 1 want to emphasise that these problems concern not only that State. The problems besetting South Australia are somewhat worse than those in many other Stales because of the very mean and miserable deal it has had from the Commonwealth generally on a number of extremely vital issues over the last number of years. That is the reason why I have used South Australia quite consistently during my speech. This Government has failed to recognise the needs of education, lt has made a political whipping horse of education and has been completely hypocritical and discriminatory in its attitude towards education generally. Taking into consideration the fact that the Government has been in office for so long, one would expect it to look at education from an  adult point of  view. We on this side of the House can only continue to make an urgent appeal on behalf of the children of the Commonwealth. I have only touched on this subject. I have not dealt with it fully. 
This morning the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  claimed that elections were to be held in South Australia because of the attitude of the Labor Opposition in that State and of the  Speaker  of the South Australian Parliament. [Quorum formed.] 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
I had intended tonight to deal with a statement on the Fill aircraft which was made last night by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Before I deal with this subject I wish to refer to the speech of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  in this debate tonight. I understand that he has since left the chamber. He saw fit to refer to the deplorable living conditions of age pensioners, who number about three quarters of a million. They live on the poverty line. 1 address myself to the few honourable members who are present on the Government benches at this hour. I cannot understand why the honourable member for Herbert made a plea for these people tonight. Perhaps he was speaking to impress the people in his electorate. He deplored the very small pension upon which age pensioners are forced to live. That position is the result of the disgraceful way they have been treated by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Herbert is a member of the Government party. Surely he can make his voice heard. Perhaps he would bc a voice in the wilderness in seeking better conditions for the people about whom he so hypocritically states he is concerned. 
I now direct the attention of honourable members back to 1963, the year of the charge against the Labor Party Executive of having 36 faceless men and the year in which  President  Kennedy of the United States of America was assasinated.  Sir Robert  Menzies, who was then Prime Minister, saw fit to go before the people of Australia and to lie to them in a most blatant fashion. He prevailed upon the electors of the Commonwealth to believe that their lives were at stake. 
He most certainly stretched the meaning of the word ambiguity' because he went before the people of Australia and implied that their very lives were at stake unless they were prepared to re-elect this Government to the Treasury benches. His Government wanted to provide the Royal Australian Air Force with a type of aircraft which would defend us from the hordes of Indonesia and from the hordes of China. Since that date various Ministers for Defence have no doubt sent little notes to Mao Tse-tung saying: 'Wait a little while. We are not quite ready yet'. But today Malik is the No. I pin-up boy with the Government, although this was not so in those days because he was not in the position in those days that he is in at this point of time. 
I also want to say that this is one of the most shocking scandals that has ever been put before the Commonwealth of Australia. I hesitate to surmise what criticism would have been levelled at honourable members on this side of the House if during the period when they were responsible for saving this country from invasion they had wasted money in such a scandalous fashion. It is all very well for the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  to laugh. He evidently sees fit to deride the capability of the armed Services to defend the people of this Commonwealth. I laid a wreath on behalf of fallen members of the services during Coral Sea Week, and my mind went back to the first occasion on which the Japanese were ever repelled. It was at a place called Milne Bay, and they were repelled by Australian troops. Let us not forget that. 
Had we on this side of the House been in government we would not have put this country to such shockingly wasteful expenditure for no result whatsoever as that for which members on the other side of the chamber must accept irresponsibility. Not only have they wasted this amount of money in the most shocking manner but they have infact denied this country any form of defence from the air. They have not even provided us with any capable reconnaissance aircraft. They are as guilty as their opposite numbers in the United 
Kingdom Government were just prior to 1939 and let them not forget that they bear as much guilt. The amount of money that this Government has expended on defence since it has been in office in comparison to the amount of hardware we have to defend this country with is nothing less than absolutely scandalous. It is shameful. The Government goes into the highways and byways of the world to get foreign exchange to develop this country, but it has wasted more money than has ever come into the country. 
Members of the Australian Country Party may well laugh because they suffer from an inferiority complex in regard to this matter. They are just as guilty because they are members and supporters of the Government. Not only have they failed this country in the matter of defence but they have failed the very people whom they purport to represent, that is, the members of the farming community of Australia. They have failed them dismally. They have led them by the nose and have in fact misled them and treated them in the most shocking fashion. Their day will come. 
Do honourable members opposite ever stop to reflect? The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this tall, aristocratic, wealthy gentleman from Victoria who never has to pay any regard to his own personal budget sees fit to pay less regard to the budget of the taxpayers of this country. That is what it means. It can be measured in no other terms. Have honourable members opposite ever stopped to think of the needs of most people in our community, to consider what could have been provided for them with the money which has been wasted on the Fill aircraft, how many schools could have been built, how many pre-schools might have been constructed or what burden could have been lifted from the pensioners, to refer to one narrow field of welfare? 
In this place today I heard a question directed to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who said in reply: 'It is the policy of the Government'. I say to him that if that is the policy of the Government, it needs to have a long hard look at its policy. I have said before in this House, and I repeat for the benefit of honourable members opposite, that if they had any shred of feeling at all they should get out of this establishment when the House is in recess and look at the poverty that they have inflicted and continue to inflict on many members of the community. I ask them to consider the miserly amount of money that the Government pays to a widow with a couple of dependent children and to consider the educational needs of the children and the pittance that the Government keeps them on. I ask honourable members opposite: Where is your sense of equity? You do not have any. Why he so hypocritical as to pay lip service to it? You dodge your responsibility as men and you dodge your responsibility as politicians. I have been in this place a short time only. I have sat here rather quietly listening to some of the greatest tripe that one ever could be expected to listen to. I wind up on this note and hope that perhaps I can continue with the subject tomorrow night and draw attention to even more areas of dire need in this community. Honourable members opposite should go to bed tonight and think about the $500m that they have wasted for nothing and how well they could have spent it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether distress or anxiety is sometimes causedto parents and their sons who are called up for national service when, after initial medical examination, the youths are referred, by letter from his Department, for a specialist medical or eye examination. 
If so, will he endeavour to avoid this anxiety by directing his Department to inform the inductee of the reason for the specialist examination. 
1 desire initially to stale my shock at the fact that this Government has seen fit to deal with a measure such as this in the manner that it has. The Leader of the House sees fit to rise and restrict the time allowed for the debate. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  may laugh. Perhaps he should pay more regard to the psychiatric benefits that may (low from this Bill. I say quite clearly that members opposite allowed the Australian Medical Association a darned sight more time to consider this Bill than they have allowed us. I say to honourable members opposite, particularly to the one who has been interjecting- 
I thought I might get away from that briefly merely as a preamble to my discussion of what you,  Mr Chairman,  insist is the only subject before the Chair. But surely you would agree that honourable members ought to have some right to refer to what has happened in this chamber as a result of the absolute restrictions that have been imposed on us and which limit us to the narrow field covered by the amendment. What docs the amendment, to which you have seen fit to draw my attention, propose? I ask honourable members opposite who are interjecting to see whether they can answer in their own minds what is contained in the amendment. The amendment merely calls for some recognition of those who are engaged in an important area of medicine and health which this Bill overlooks and ignores. It is a pity that the Bill is not as representative of the health needs of the nation as it is of the boards of directors who are concerned with investment and what can flow to them from the Bill. Can anybody suggest that the Bill is representative of the health needs of the community? Certainly not! What, then, is wrong with the proposal contained in this amendment? 
This debate has proceeded for some considerable time but most honourable members are not conversant with the way in which the Bill may affect people, because the Government has not spelt it out in simple terms. I can see flowing from this legislation all sorts of problems. However, I anticipate being dragged back to the amendment so T had better make some reference to it. It is a pretty shabby state of affairs when a man has to keep looking at a very small section of the Bill which is worthy of utter and utmost condemnation. 
I&gt;r Forbes - These are the rules of this Hou&amp;e. 
The Minister for Health interjects and refers to the matter of rules. He breaks one by interjecting. If I may digress, the same as he has been allowed to do, let me say that the rules have been manipulated and, indeed - I do not like saying it - almost prostituted by members of the Government in relation to the whole of this measure. The Bill is not representative of even the type of thing that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  put before the people of Australia prior to 25th October, and that was bad enough. The amendment, of course, proposes the appointment of 6 pharmaceutical chemists nominated by the Federal Pharmaceutical Services Guild of Australia as members of the Pharmaceutical Services Federal Committee of Inquiry. This is a very simple proposition. Members opposite say that every cocky, wheat grower or anybody who scrapes the earth shall be represented on all sorts of committees and bodies but in respect of the health of the nation, particularly as it applies to medicine, they say that doctors shall not be so represented. This is quite stupid to my way of thinking. However, if the power behind the throne of government has been so severe and has caused honourable members opposite so much worry over the last few months, the last few weeks and the last few hours until finally it put them in a spirit bottle yesterday or earlier this week by requiring amendments, that is all right, lt is no more than we can expect. At the same time the Bill is completely unrepresentative of the health needs of the community generally. The Liberal Party sees fit to refer to this as a national health scheme. How hypocritical! It is not a health scheme and it is not likely to be while honourable members opposite look at it as they have done right up to now. 
And I will use them if I want to. Honourable members opposite are worrying about 4 minutes. They gave the AMA hours yet they give us only minutes. How hypocritical they are! This Bill ought to be tackled on the basis that it is to serve the interests of the people and not the AMA. Honourable members opposite know that as well as I do but the have not the courage to break away from their Party and say what is in their minds. I have heard them muttering in the corridors from time to time. Most of them have not the  courage to stand  in this chamber and represent the people as perhaps they would like to represent them. 
 You need not sustain the point of order because I have concluded my contribution. 
Recently in this House I have raised by way of questions and in debate the very extreme plight that age and invalid pensioners find themselves in as a result of the callous attitude displayed by the Liberal-Country Party Government towards those members of the community who are reliant upon social welfare handouts. The assistance given to age and invalid pensioners is totally inadequate when viewed against the background of the rising cost of everyday necessities to sustain themselves and recently increased rents which inflict a very great burden on those whose incomes remain unaltered. This social disparity continues under the policy of this Government. Surely, if one accepts the word of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that we are a rich and lucky country, the discrimination that is directed against these people is most certainly worthy of the utmost criticism and condemnation. 
Added to the number receiving social welfare payments are those in the community who are in receipt of some form of fixed income. While the Government continues to give lip service, commending the thrifty and even stating that thrift should be rewarded, it continues to impose a most vicious means test on those who are on superannuation or receiving other types of fixed income available upon their retirement. These are more often than not the result of saving over a considerable time and under schemes which when commenced provided for a limited amount of savings. Consideration over the years could not foresee the loss of such savings, so many years later, as a result of the loss of purchasing power under Liberal governments. 
What then is the attitude of the Government to such thrift? The Government rewards thrift by imposing the so-called tapered means test or, viewed more realistically, it forces these people in the community to the conclusion that savings made by them merely provide their own pensions. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  must surely realise that he is a party to what surely must amount to a public conspiracy. Let me qualify my comment in this way: As taxpayers for all of their working lives, these people paid taxes in a way no different from that of others in the community. Surely what should be an age entitlement is denied them upon their retirement by a government which hypocritically stales that it has the interests of the pensioners at heart. 
1 did. 
The policy, in the Government's view, is the application of the least amount where the need is the greatest. This is so also in respect of education. The policy of the Labor Party is quite clear. It has the inbuilt feature of protecting the cost rise aspect which is so wilfully neglected by the Government. In addition, the Labor Party proposes to eliminate completely the means test for many in the community immediately and for others progressively so that it is non-existent after 6 years. Our policy also provides that when a man becomes the recipient of a pension his dependent wife should also be granted a pension regardless of her age. During the last election campaign the Labor Party went to the people claiming that there should be an investigation to determine the best national superannuation scheme for Australia and a firm commitment to its introduction, and that it should link the age, invalid and widows pensions to the. annual average wage. 
The Labor Party said that abolition of the means test and national superannuation are inseparable aspects of a truly modern welfare system. It said that these 2 aspects exist side by side in all the advanced countries of Europe and Canada. It also said that the whole question of welfare and pensions must be taken out of the electioneering atmosphere engendered by the Liberal Party's cynical  $1  rise on election eve. The Labor Party also said that I in 4 of the larger families in Australia live in real poverty and that they cannot begin to lift themselves out of poverty as long as the Commonwealth contribution is limited to occasional and meagre cash handouts. We said that Labor would enact legislation ulong the lines of the Canadian Assistance Act, to develop along with the States, local government bodies and voluntary agencies a new, regionally based pattern of social welfare arrangements. Finally we said that only if this were done would Australia make a real onslaught on the problem of poverty in the midst of prosperity. 
The policy of the Government to continue to deny a pension to the wife of the breadwinner in the family demonstrates its stupidity and lack of understanding and commonsense. A man retires at 65 years or even 70 years and his wife, who is much younger, has not worked outside the home for all of her married life, which could be 30 or more years. She is in reasonable health but is very often unable to secure suitable employment. By its attitude the Government creates a sub-standard life for those members of the community and' creates misery for those forced, through no fault of their own, to an undignified existence. 
This Government is a government of double standards. It regards a double standard as its pinnacle of successful administration. It believes that it should be recognised on that basis. It is completely out of touch with the realities of the problems confronting certain sectors of the public because Government supporters, in the main, come from and represent the privileged part of our society. How can men who have never had to live a lite consistent with the life of the majority of the people of the Commonwealth know what it is to live in substandard conditions? What possible concept have Government supporters of the plight of the people that the Government has forced to live in such conditions? They are the more unfortunate among us. The members of the Liberal Party are not with it. They refuse to recognise community problems. The Treasurer is concerned when wages and salaries increase. He becomes alarmed and panics and imposes restrictions designed to reduce the value of wages and salaries. He was obviously elated when Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd increased the price of steel by 4% and company profits increased. I conclude by stating that the Government is discriminating against most of the people by ignoring their needs, their welfare, their protection, their health and their security and imposing at the same time a taxation burden from which the country gets scant and reluctant government benefit. 
Question resolved in the affirmative House adjourned  at 11.41 p.m. 
 I desire to take up only a small amount of the time of the House tonight. It will not take me very long to disprove the arguments that have been put forward by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who has just resumed his seat. 
The modest member of Parliament who writes in the 'Australian Financial Review' is not on this side of the House. I rise to support the amendment which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted wilh a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House'. 
The honourable member who has just resumed his seat and who is about to leave the chamber quoted extensively from a document which, I understand he admitted to the House, in fact was made available only to members of the Government parties. This is . the very point on which we members on this side of the House were critical during another debate that took place here this afternoon. We are expected to vote in this chamber on matters involving the expenditure of many millions of dollars with our heads completely in the sand, as far as the Government is concerned.' The Government has had some studies made of this project and of other projects. Indeed, on some other projects it has changed its mind from1 time' to time. I instance, of course, the Chowilla arid Dartmouth Dams. When we asked for reports oh those projects to be made available we were told that we were attempting to defeat the legislation. The whole approach of the Government is quite dishonest. The whole approach of the Government to water conservation is quite dishonest. 
Mi  SPEAKER-Order! There is no point of order. 
I say dishonest because honourable members opposite look at these matters from the , viewpoint of party quorums and party politics. 
Seeing that the honourable member for Angas- 
They passed the buck. They will not accept their responsibilities. 
The next feature mentioned in the Bill is that the agreement must include provision that the outgoing man will receive current market value for his land and structural improvements. 
Who will decide on the correct current market value for his land? I feel there will have to be tribunals set up within each State to handle some of the vicious financial questions that will arise out of the implementation of the scheme, in that respect there are one or two other interesting features that I noticed as 1 went through the details of the scheme and which the poor old States will have to decide. I think that the Ministers for Agriculture in the States which adopt this scheme will have a great deal of extra work and worry placed on their shoulders when decisions on these questions have to be made. I agree with the provisions in the Bill which have been outlined by the Mininster on pages 9 and 10 of his roneoed second reading speech. They are very good provisions indeed. But the State has to decide some of these very difficult and tricky questions. For this reason the State will be a little wary in accepting the scheme. In conclusion I refer to the following words in the Minister's second reading speech:   in the opinion of the State authority operating the scheme, the farm, if used wholly for dairying or purposes incidental to dairying, is not reasonably capable of producing to a level agreed between the Commonwealth and the State. 
A standard of about 12,000 lb of butter fat is fixed, and there is a variable between 12,000 lb and 15,000 lb. This is another delicate question that will have to bc decided by the State authority. So, in spite of the fact that the Commonwealth is to provide $25m over 4 years, the State is responsible for implementing the scheme. The Commonwealth is to charge  6%  on half the money that is repayable to it, and it is hoping that from the way in which the States handle the scheme, they will receive sufficient for administrative purposes to cover possible losses. 
There are a lot of ifs and bum about the scheme, and we will have to see how it operates in Western Australia and Tasmania to find any weaknesses in the scheme. I expect that amendments to the scheme will have to be made within 2 years. That will be all right. Trial and error is a good thing, provided that in the process we improve the lot of the farmer who is in need of assistance. I have a few reservations about the scheme, particularly on the production side. But all in all it is something new to try. I think that we should give it a go and if in 2 or 3 years it is a failure, let us bury it very deep in the earth. However, I commend the Minister for his persistency in advocating the scheme. The overall aim of the scheme is good. That is why the Labor Party has approved of it. But, as I say, we have reservations which are only natural in schemes which are so revolutionary and new as this one is. 
I will not take long to say what I have to say to the House on this matter. I wish to criticise the people who are responsible for placing before this House a Bill of this nature. We live in a continent that is three fifths arid, yet we are discussing now a proposal to restrict the two fifths of the country that can produce something. The Government has got the people it purports to represent into an unholy mess because of ils lack of foresight and assessment and its wrongful and almost wilful lack of guidance in the dairy industry and other industries. Honourable members opposite may well laugh, but they might as well have gone to the dairy industry 3 or 4 years ago and suggested that it grow pot and stop trying to produce butterfat, or offered some such stupid advice as that. 
It is an absolute disgrace. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Gil'es)  may well interject because he will not come into this category although he is concerned in the industry and participates in it, at the same time as he draws his salary for his attendances at this Parliament. He is not the sort of person who has to worry. It is all very well to say that the matter can be determined by restricting production. The point is that no attention is being paid to human needs in the Bill before us. 
 I want to speak on this motion to adjourn the House. It was my understanding from u conversation with the Leader of the House  'Mr Snedden)  that the debate on the second reading stage of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill would continue into the morning. This procedure has now been denied. The fact of the matter is that while we have had one Government  member  getting up on an extremely petty point of misrepresentation the Government tonight has misrepresented entirely the concepts of parliamentary debate. Members opposite sit with supercilious grins on their faces because they realise that at this stage they can play the numbers game, but they will not always be able to play the numbers game in this chamber. They are most certainly belittling themselves in the eyes of the public. 
When the Snowy Mountains public relations authority was not curtailed  by  a previous Minister over 250,000 people annually went over the Snowy Mountains scheme and examined it, but this year the figure has dropped to a mere 900. Obviously, the Government has restricted visits to the scheme because it is fearful that the public, in viewing the scheme, will be prompted to support the retention of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. However it is not on that point that I want to speak tonight. I again make the point that has been made in this chamber before and I refer to a situation that has unfortunately prevailed in this House in earlier sittings. It did seem that sanity had returned to the Government for a short time in respect of its treatment of the Opposition, but members opposite have extremely short memories because we are back again to the system of the gag. No doubt they want to get out of this place this week, as do members of the Opposition, but we cannot bc held responsible for the stupid procrastination and time wasting that has obtained in this place since March, when we first mct, as a result of the waste of time engaged in by Government members in a number of debates. Apparently they will continue to waste time and ride roughshod over the processes of this House, or they will use the processes of this House in a manner which can be described only as an abuse of those privileges which should be available to parliamentarians to enable them to voice their opinions on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill and Bills of a like nature which from time to time are presented in this chamber. 
Was it not only last week that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  stood up during a debate on what ought to be done by Committees, and deplored a number of things? The thought went through my mind at that time that he was merely paying lip service. This thought has certainly been confirmed tonight. For the whole time that I have been speaking in this debate Government supporters have kept up a continual chatter, almost to the extent that it has been necessary for me to shout to be heard. Usually I sit here quietly and when occasionally I interject I am always called to order by  Mr Speaker,  the  Deputy Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees or whoever occupies the Chair. But apparently Government supporters can do as they like. I reiterate my condemnation of and utter disgust for the action of those people who so frequently pretend that they are the protectors of democracy when in fact they do not even know the meaning of the word, let alone know what principles of democracy should be  applied in a place like this. 
On behalf of the Opposition I oppose clause 23 in its entirety. I would like to make a few remarks in regard to the Bill itself in condemnation of the attitude of the Government. Why does this Government persist in such wilful destruction of a Commonwealth instrumentality? This Government has seen fit completely to destroy a Commonwealth shipping line and also the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to mention only two instrumentalities. We are about to witness in this chamber the legislative death throes of the remarkable giant, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. This organisation has been responsible for achieving a task of immense magnitude when measured in terms of organisational capability in the fields of construction, of investigation and survey, and of design and supervision. In addition, it has achieved a sound constructional contracting capability, and at so much less than estimated costs that it virtually should be the delight of any government - but unfortunately not of this Liberal Government. The Authority has achieved efficiency in all of these and many other fields. Why is this Government bringing down this legislation? 
In anticipation that I will be asked by the  Chairman  to come back to the terms of this Bill, clause 23 restricts the number of employees and in fact gives complete control and complete dictatorial powers to the Minister for National Development. When this Bill comes into force and the Corporation is engaged in some project the Minister, if he gets a bleat from some section of private enterprise and is prevailed upon to do what he can to protect private enterprise, may well slash by 50% the number of employees within the Corporation. How can any corporation function efficiently in that event? The Snowy Authority has efficiently and effectively spent $40m a year and in so doing it has carried out its responsibility to the Australian Government, and, what is more important, it has achieved in the eyes of the Australian public, and almost completed, vast undertakings and numerous projects of which we as citizens of 'he Commonwealth can be extremely proud. 
The Authority has lifted the mask from the thinking of the mental morass and submerged  Sir Robert  Menzies and his political lackeys in their attitudes to the setting up of the Authority in 1949. 1 refer to their childish boycott of the ceremony to mark the commencement of the undertaking. Later, those who condemned and damned the project hastened, almost indecently, to have their names inscribed on the numerous commemoration plaques that marked the stages of the project from time to time. Having heard the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his speech last night 1 suggest that he should hasten to the Snowy and have his name taken off the commemorative plaque in one of the power stations where it can be seen today. If one were to read a speech made by a previous Minister for National Development and relate it to what he had to say in this chamber only a few hours ago in support of the setting up of this Corporation, one phrase and one phrase only describes that person - an absolute hypocrite.  His  title is such that- 
Toss him out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER-Order! Interjections will cease. The honourable member for Sturt will remain silent. 
1 rise to a point of order. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)- 

Order! The honourable member for Kennedy will resume his seat. 
How do I know? I can tell you this much: The container vessels and unitised vessels that are putting into our ports today are carting 30% more wool than conventional ships carted. The look of stunned silence on the faces of honourable members opposite indicates their absolute ignorance. 

 Mr SPEAKER-Order! Honourable members who have spoken in the debate will cease interjecting. I suggest to the honourable member for Sturt that he direct his remarks to the Chair. 
You can go to the Parliamentary Library and pick out these facts if you want to. I said in my. first speech in this House that I had addressed a gathering of farmers on one occasion in the electorate of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and I had told them in very blunt fashion that it was time they., got off their posteriors and helped themselves. They are regarded by the Country Party like the farmer regards the strainer post in the top paddock. He put it there or grandfather put it there and it is taken for granted, and that is how the people whom the Country Party is supposed to represent have taken that Party until a few weeks ago in Victoria. I say seriously on behalf of the wool growers today that there stand for the taking the 100,000 wool growers who honourable members opposite say cannot make up their minds. They have not been given any leadership. Honourable members opposite have not gone to the wool growers and told them that their wool is handled on only a very few occasions compared with the number of times it used to be handled a few years ago. The ships today take sufficient in deck cargo to meet the whole of the costs. Their holds could take 30% more wool, and the grower is paying. 
If we were to take all the dirt and foreign matter out of wool tomorrow and we could effect a better system of baling and high density dumping of wool whereby we could get 3 times as much into a ship's hold the farmer would still be paying his high freight rates because honourable members opposite have tied themselves to a system of what the traffic will bear. This gives a tremendous return to the shipowners. They started as pirates in the 17th century and the Government permits them to continue to be pirates. Make no error about this. I say it seriously though some of my colleagues may burst into mirth. If you took all the dirt and all the impurities out of wool they would still get more than their share of the cake. Why is it that honourable members opposite do not tell this to the people they represent? They had a golden opportunity with the advent of containerisation and they will rue the day that they ever supported it because studies have been made since that will be very convincing to those who want to read them. These studies show that in fact the unitised ship is a darned sight more efficient and more economical, measured in terms of the types of ships that are required to transport our produce abroad, than the heavy capital outlay that has been wasted and squandered on this project of containerisation. The Government followed Westerman; it followed a previous head of the Department. It will wish in due course that it had not done that. 
In regard to other aspects, what is being done about high density? The Government is permitting a concentration in wool dumping centres which will mean that the broker will continue to get more than his fair share of the product. The grower has little say. The Country Party has denied him a say by its lack of leadership. It is no good honourable members from that Party sitting in this chamber and thinking they will cure the ills of the wool industry by patting themselves on the back, kidding themselves and conning the wool grower into thinking they are working like hell for him when they are again laying a foundation for the industry as they did for the wheat industry. It is no good saying, as the honourable member for Canning said a short time ago, that there is power in the Bill to resurrect all sorts of wool stores and wool complexes and build all sorts of wool villages. We will only have a situation similar to that in regard to wheat where we have a string of silos right across the country instead of sales of wheat. The only difference is that wheat today is almost an unsaleable rural product, but wool is not. Honourable members opposite have allowed, a system of collusion at buying level to be created and to grow and fester within the wool industry over a number of years and they have stood idly by and let this happen because they have tied themselves - and have ignored the people they represent - to a wool selling system that has been grossly abused by the buyers. No honourable member in this chamber can deny that; 1 challenge anyone to deny it. Honourable members opposite can call any meeting of wool growers they like and I will be prepared to go along and put up an argument against any argument they put up that this has not been done. They can say that I know nothing about wool, but perhaps I know a little more about it than they think. lt is of no use for members ot the Country Party to say that they will cure the ills of the industry by erecting buildings with thousands and thousands of cubic feet of storage capacity. The old style of single bundling of wool for transport from shed to shed and from rail truck to rail truck has gone. I wonder whether members nl the Country Party have ever worked out how many times wool used to be shifted from the area adjacent to Central Station in Sydney down to the wharves? Have you ever made a calculation, on behalf of the wool growers that you claim you represent, of how many times wool is carried? Have you ever appreciated that wool used to be loaded at the hourly rate - then considered to be a good rate - of 100 bales, on a Commonwealth average? The figures today show a loading rate 3 times as fast through unitisation alone. Wool cargoes are nor loaded into the hold at the rate of 6 or X bales at a time. Hundreds of bales are loaded in half an hour. 
Did you ever pay attention to the offer made in 1967 or 1968 to the wool grower.-, by the Russian shipping line that was prepared to operate from Australia? The Russians were prepared to carry our wool to Continental and United Kingdom markets at a rate reduced by 15%. But what happened? It was quite an interesting exercise. Nobody wanted to play ball with the Communists. I am not having a shot at the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  just because he appeared with men from Russia on a television programme last night. If we can sell our goods vo Russia in our national interest, well and good. We should trade with any country in the world, so long as it is in our national interest. There should be no argument on that score. Honourable members opposite have tied the Government to the Conference Line. Two or three years ago the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  went overseas with S40m in a black bag to lake the pressure off the Australian .shippers. I do not know whether that money went into a Swiss bank, but the fact is that the pressure has not been shifted from the Australian shippers. Nobody should quarrel with that statement. 
The Russians offered competition to the Conference Line. What then happened? An attempt was made by the Conference Line through its stevedores to prevent the Russian shipping line from getting agencies, services, wharf facilities, stevedore handling equipment, and so on. The Russians approached a prominent stevedoring company in Sydney, lt expressed some alarm that its brother stevedores might jack up if it co-operated with the Russians. The union had something to say about that. In the end those shocking people, the Russians, were admitted into the exalted hall of fame of the shipping conference and were guaranteed a percentage of space for cargo being moved from Australia to the Continental and United Kingdom markets. They still retain that position. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry ought to be asking himself whether it would be worth while to take a serious journey overseas in an endeavour again to interest the eastern European countries in shipping the wool of Australian growers. It is the wool of the growers and not of the brokers or shipowners. The growers should be entitled to a say in how it is handled. They should not be told claptrap about the Conference Line and the type of thing we heard yesterday from the Minister for Trade and Industry when answering a question of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grasshy).  I suggest to honourable members opposite that they read the Minister's answer in Hansard and analyse it on the basis of benefits to the national interest and benefits to wool growers. 
Another interesting feature of the exercise involving the Russian shipping line to which 
I have referred was a noble gesture of the Conference Line and its interests scattered throughout Australia. It said that if any shipper, in the early stages of the offer by the Russians, dared to ship with them - and the Russians could not carry all the clip - a surcharge of 30% would be charged by the Conference Line on the balance of any wool that could not be carried by the Russians. Did I hear the honourable member for Kennedy interject 'Highway robbery'? It is more than that. 

 Mr SPEAKER-Order! The honourable member for Kennedy will cease interjecting. 
As a result of the situation which prevails today within a very short space of time there will be 170 conventional ships going off the United KingdomAustralia run. They will .enter the tramp service of the seaways of the world. They are not the old decrepit vessels which one might see depicted as tramps on a television programme. They are vessels that have high capacities for the transport of wool. They would represent a saving in shipping costs and other undisclosed costs of at least 25%. Is not this worth pursuing in the interests of the wool grower instead of standing here and talking about making available $27m for research purposes? There ought to be research within the industry to improve the clip. We can make it better in a number of areas, in regard to classification, dumping and what have you. Nobody will argue about that at all. What we on this side of the House point out to the Government is that it is not curing the ills of the industry and it is riot doing anything for the grower. I repeat this for about the 16th time; if I stood here and repeated it for 2 hours it would still be very hard to get the message across to honourable members opposite. However, I do not want honourable members to accept my contribution just as one that is taking up the time of this House at this late hour. I am serious in my suggestion that a number of very important avenues ought to be explored and they should be explored in the interests of woo] growers. 
As to high density dumps, consideration should be given to the suggestion that all of these should not necessarily be in the one centralised area, because this is not in the best interests of the industry. There is not one aspect of the handling of wool that has not improved to such an extent that all of the growers area should receive benefits. In addition to that, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is continuing to improve even upon the high density bale. If the Government is to continue to tie Australia to the Conference Line, and if Australia has an interest in a container vessel operating between here and the United States, between here and the United Kingdom and between here and Japan we should have some say in regard to the freight rates we pay. Honourable members can check in the library on our freight bill but those who have been here many more years than I should be able to remember it, particularly those honourable members who have been here as many years as I have been here for months or weeks. 
I ask honourable members to have a look at the tremendous bill that this country has had to meet for transportation of its products. If they do they will then wonder why they have sat so complacently in their seats in this place for so long. The Government has said that it would not go for a national line overseas. I put it as simply as this: If we on this side of the House said tomorrow we will not permit any farmer or rural producer to own his own means of transporting his livestock and the goods which he produces; he is not to own a truck at all', honourable members opposite would rightfully condemn us for that attitude. But at the same time the Government denies this country the same thing as far as the transportation of its products is concerned. As to a question asked in relation to the New Zealand shipment of apples and pears, if I may leave the Bill for a moment- 

 Mr SPEAKER-Order! I suggest to the honourable member that although the Minister dealt in his second reading speech with marketing, modern business techniques and other matters relating to the wool industry, any further reference to shipping outside the context of the wool industry would be out of order, unless the honourable member makes only passing reference to it. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker;  I desire to make only a passing reference, to sustain the points I have already made, to what has happened in regard to the ship* ment of certain rural products from New 
Zealand. That country went outside the Conference Line and as a result it was able to sell the balance of its crop. Fears have been expressed by Government supporters that if the Australian shipper were to insist on availing himself of lower freight rates that might be available to him he would be doing himself a disservice. Some honourable members opposite have said that he would be at risk because the conference lines would gang up. The honourable member for Canning even suggested that the growers should adopt a more militant attitude and should refuse to sell their wool. I do not accept that that would achieve anything of great value. 
The honourable member said that the industry was confused and remained confused, that much money was being spent on propaganda and that the wool growers had been talked out of many a proposition that had been designed to assist them, as a result of which many a good scheme had been upset. He said that the wool belongs to the industry. I strongly disagree with the suggestion that the wool belongs to the industry if the honourable member includes in the term 'industry' the brokers, the financiers and the ship owners. So far as I am concerned the wool belongs to the growers. Today too small a percentage of the return from wool is finding its way back into the farming community, because of which the farming community is depressed and its purchasing power is extremely reduced. In addition business interests within the farming community are also affected. The chain reaction of this influence is widespread and others throughout the community begin to suffer. That is what we on this side of the House are concerned about. We do not attempt to draw up a policy which will sidetrack the wool grower, as was suggested by the honourable member for Canning. He said that the wool grower had been sidetracked and had been kept in absolute ignorance, which I suppose is another way of saying that he has been sidetracked. 
No honourable member in this place will deny that the Australian wool clip is not saleable. The thing that should concern all of us, irrespective of the Party to which we belong, is the fact that the country is not getting a fair return for wool. While the country is not getting a fair return from wool it follows that the grower is getting something less than a fair return for his product. That should be of concern to all honourable members. It is no earthly good members of the Country Party continuing throughout the length and breadth of Australia to tell the rural community that it is in dire straits or that the wool industry should do this or that about its problems. Members of this Parliament on the opposite side have the responsibility and the capability - or should have the capability - to solve some areas of the problem. They must recognise in their more honest moments that if they conscientiously represent the rural community they are in a far better position to remove some of the unfair burdens that those in the rural community are now expected to carry. 
If honourable members opposite get the type of reaction which we saw recently in Victoria and which is about to happen in South Australia in the next month it may spur them into some activity in regard to some of the matters I have raised here tonight. In that event honourable members opposite will realise that they have an important role to play in the short time for which they continue to occupy the Treasury benches throughout this country. As a last ditch stand honourable members on the Government side might give some serious thought to this matter and take some serious action in the last few months that they are in office in order to help the people they represent in this chamber. They should do that rather than hurl abuse at honourable members on this side of the House and at urban dwellers. I would hate to see a division between the rural community in Australia on the one hand and the urban and city community on the other. It might manifest itself to the extent that the urban and city dwellers believe, perhaps falsely, that they are being asked to carry a failing wool industry. 1 come to my final point. Honourable members on the Government side have accused members of the Opposition of using propaganda in the wool industry. If we had wanted to use propaganda in the industry relating to the attitude of honourable members on the Government side of the House, then in our political leaflets circulated last October there would have been something aimed at whipping up the urban and city dwellers, antagonising them against country interests. But not one honourable member opposite can say that we adopted this tactic. 
That is correct. 1 thank the honourable member for his interjection. The fact is that the Government has been somewhat dishonest in its attitude to wool, whether it be on the sheep's- back or shorn. The Government has wrongly accused the Opposition of inciting the trade union movement over the export of merino rams. In my office in Adelaide I have letters about this subject even from people 1 do nor know. They have written to me asking that I do all in my power to ensure that the merinos remain in this country and that the attitude of the Labor Party on this question remains as it is. One of these letters is from a gentleman by the name of Killen but 1 do not think it is from the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen). 
Government supporters are wrong in believing that they can solve their problems by casting innuendoes about people on this side of the House and suggesting that merely by waving the magic wand in front of the Australian Council of Trade Unions the ban on the movement of merino ramswill be lifted and all will be well. There are different attitudes prevailing about the ACTU ban. The fact is that the original appeal to the trade union movement came from certain wool growing interests. Certain wool growers were alarmed at the undemocratic manner in which the ban on the export of merinos was lifted at the suggestion of the Minister who said in this place that that was what the wool industry required. If the Government believes that there is a right to dissent it must realise that today there is a dissenting group within the wool industry. Government supporters will not overcome the problem by standing in this place at question time and hurling abuse and innuendoes at honourable members on this side. Government supporters will have to pull their socks up and do their hair much better if they are to achieve their desired aim. The Government should arrange a proper democratic debate on this matter. So far it has dodged such a debate. 
Members of the Government have a serious role to play in regard to the wool industry. They must do not only what is in the interests of the Country Party and Liberal Party and those people in Australia who still support them. They must not create a clash within the community. They must do what is in the best interests of the national economy. 

 Mr KELLY  (Wakefield) L2.49 a.m.]Mr  Speaker,  I have often told you that South Australia is indeed  a  . remarkable State. ] think you could see confirmation of that opinion tonight after listening to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  ft is true that the wool industry is in trouble. I do not want to keep people up at night telling them that. The question is: What should we try to do about it? a quite frequently suggested panacea is that we should subsidise it or give it cost compensation. I am glad to see that no one on either side of the House has seriously advanced that suggestion in this debate. 1 did not hear the Australian Labor Party policy in the detail that I would have liked, hut I do not think members of that Party put it forward. For those who do so, it is worth remembering that a subsidy of 5c per lb of wool would cost the exchequer SI 00m and that 75% of it would go to 25% of the growers. That is the arithmetic that we have to keep in mind. 
The Government is helping and is helping in another way. That is the way that is mentioned in this Bill. An amount of $27m is going into research and promotion. This may be looked upon by some people as a generous contribution, as indeed it is; but it is worth while to get these matters into focus or into proportion. 1 remember a long while ago - in 1963 - doing a rather careful measurement of the consumer subsidy that I large paper company was receiving at that stage, namely, $14m a year. I say quite definitely that I believe that the chemical industry in Australia is receiving a consumer subsidy of at least $100m a year. So we would be justified in saying that the $27m that the wool industry is receiving in this form is a proper return for having carried a large section of the economy on its back for some time. 
Another point that I was glad to hear the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr 
Hunt) mention particularly is that subsidies on inputs into the industry are never as serious or as dangerous as subsidies on the output. The Government, with its superphosphate subsidy, its nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy and its taxation subsidies, is helping in the right way. But there arc other things that we could do. I agree with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  that it is our duty, as Government backbenchers and, indeed, as members of the House,- to point out to the Government ways in which we believe the industry can be helped without hurting it. 
I believe that it is time we started to have a careful look at the effect of helping the tobacco industry in the way we do. It is commonly said - I do not know whether it is true, but I have heard it said on many occasions by many people from overseas as well as in Australia - that one of the reasons, perhaps the chief reason, why we cannot achieve the abolition of the duty on imports of our wool into the United States of America is our determination to assist the Australian tobacco industry, lt is worth pointing out that we support the Australian tobacco industry at the rate of $400 for every acre of tobacco grown. If we were not determined to have this Australian tobacco industry - I am not saying that we should not be - maybe we could pay people $300 an acre not to grow tobacco if that would help us to get our wool into the United States without duty. 
However, there are other matters. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Sturt mention the shipping problem. We could do a great deal more in the field of shipping. Just to give 1 example, I have often heard it said - I believe that it is true . - that the wool industry carries a proportion of the freight on Tasmanian apples. If the Tasmanian apple growers have to be helped, in my view it is not proper that they should be helped by the wool growers. I am not saying that the Tasmanian apple growers should not be helped; but I repeat that it is not the function of the Australian wool growers - to help them in the urgent crisis in which the wool industry finds itself today. 
It is true that we can do more - I believe that we will be able to in the future as we streamline our handling procedures - in the bulk handling of wool in tankers. One of the real problems of the industry is that the wool has to be loaded in certain ways, marked and dumped, some at Antwerp, some at London and so on, and that certain wool comes out of certain places. This increases freight costs gravely. When we become more confident about core testing we should be able to handle it in other ways. These are the main problems of the industry to which I think we should direct our attention. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who took part in the debate on this matter and mentioned particularly this question of restructuring. Restructuring' is becoming the fashionable word, the in phrase, to use nowadays when talking about rural industries. It has an air of erudition about it which is attractive. It is worth remembering that it presents fundamental problems in deciding how big is an economic unit. It is easy enough to make speeches about it but it is very difficult to decide what will be an economic unit. In the end the decision should not be made by the Government. It must be made by a bank, a development bank or an institution, but not by the Government. No government should ever tell a farmer what his economic unit is. If the Government said: This is the way to make money on a property of this size* the Government then would be held to ransom when things went wrong. It is a fundamental fact that any government which tells an industry to produce more - wheat, for example - always runs into difficulties in the end. The decision has to be made by someone but not by the Government. I want the House to realise that there will be resolutions urging the Government to tell the industry what to do, but the Government should never do it. (Quorum formed.) 
The other part of the restructuring problem that 1 think we should examine briefly is how it will be financed. 1 suggest the establishment of a rural loans insurance corporation. Such a corporation, development bank or whatever it might be would give us the kind of flexibility that is needed to finance the inevitable reconstruction. The most important point is that we need for the wool industry, and indeed for all rural industries, a rural industries board, an equivalent of the Tariff Board, to advise the Government on what action it should take in relation to rural industries. The Tariff 
Board was instituted many years ago because the Government had to have some shelter from having to take decisions as to what duties ought to be placed on particular goods produced in particular districts. A government does need public evidence on industry problems and then a public report on which it can take the political decision. Indeed, a government needs the economic answers and it then lakes the political decisions. One of our problems iri the rural industries is that we have done too many things that are uneconomic. One of the reasons why we have done the wrong thing is that we have not received clear public economic advice. I urge the Government to have a careful look at a rural industries board so that we shall receive public economic advice on which it may then take political decisions. 
The other matter that  1  want to mention briefly is the acquisition scheme. J was surprised to hear the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - if  1  heard him correctly - say when putting forward Labor policy on wool that the Labor Party did not recommend a referendum on the acquisition scheme.  1  find it almost impossible to believe, that the Labor Party would come out and say that it was going to take the growers' wool and would sell it in a certain way without asking them. ] hope that I misheard the honourable member,  1  would like, by way of interjection, to hear now from Labor Party supporters whether they propose to take the grower's wool from him without asking him whether he wants it or not. 
1 had intended in this grievance day debate to deal with a matter relating to cottages for the aged, but I am now awaiting confirmation of information I received earlier this morning. I realise that the time granted to me in this debate is extremely short. Therefore I want to raise in this House the matter of the late Private Larsson, who was unfortunately killed in Vietnam last Saturday. On behalf of the parents of this soldier I wrote to the Minister for the Army i.Mr Peacock) early in January requesting that this soldier not be sent into active combat in Vietnam because of his extremely poor eyesight. The soldier, as the Minister informed me, was transferred from hi&lt; then regiment, the 7th Battalion, into the 5th Battalion and he was in due course boarded. Finally I received from the Minister the following letter: 
I refer again to your personal representations concerning Private S. G. Larsson and his proposed posting to Vietnam. 
All members of the Army, whether regular soldiers or national servicemen have the same liability to serve overseas should the needs of the Army require it. 
The member's medical condition has been investigated by officers of my Department in Eastern Command and he was medically boarded on 3 February 1970 and was found to be tully  fit  for service everywhere. His eye condition is .orrected by the wearing of spectacles, which are obtainable from any source, including Vietnam. 
Private Larsson will be issued with 2 pairs ot spectacles in accordance with normal Army practice. This is to ensure that if one pair of spectacles is damaged, a replacement pair is immediately available. Let me assure you that no soldier would be permitted to serve in an operational  area  if it was felt his medical condition would endanger either his own life or that of his colleagues. 
Careful consideration has been given to  Mr and Mrs Larsson's  request but I cannot accede to their wishes, even though I can readily understand their anxiety and, in fact, the anxiety of any parents whose son is required  to  serve in an operationa area. 
In earlier correspondence I pointed out that Private Larsson was in need of glasses of a type requiring specially ground lenses which were not readily available. The fact that the Army, having its wilful way, directed this soldier back to the 7th Battalion, into Vietnam and into a combat zone would leave a very real thought for ever with his next of kin, his parents and his brothers and sisters, that he probably .lied as ; result of this poor vision. I understand he lost his life through a mine explosion in Vietnam. 
It would be very interesting to know, and there should be some form of inquiry to establish, whether this did occur. 
With the short time that is available to me I also wish to read a letter which was directed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and of which I received a copy. The letter is from the late soldier's father and it says: 
Thirty years ago, you andI were engaged actively in a conflict on an issue that was beyond doubt. We fought for freedom from individual oppression and tyranny, andI was proud to be an Australian. 
A short while ago, I was informed that my son was killed in action in Vietnam. 
In Vietnam there emerged a terrible armed struggle between the peoples of one race - father against son, brother against brother, each fighting desperately for principles I no longer understand, but it was a family struggle, which in the final event will only be resolved between the people of Vietnam. 
Yet into this conflict,  Mr Prime  Minister, powerful neighbours intruded, and so you committed Australia. You felt that by armed force, your ideals might be thrust upon these people. Through your intrusion, you and your colleagues introduced into Australia, the very principles against which I was prepared, with others, to die if necessary. 
This is your Australia,  Mr Prime  Minister, and 1 no longer have pride in being an Australian. 
Into the conflagration that is Vietnam, you sent my son, a man whom you knew that without his glasses, could not see a hand held four feet away, or a car at 30 feet, and whom you told could see reasonably well with glasses. You advised him to keep them clean, yet in the torrid humidity of Vietnam, you could not tell him how. 
He went,  Mr Prime  Minister, because you told him it was right and honorable. 
Was it,  Mr Prime  Minister? Why? For whom? 
A thousand questions flood my mind. How do I answer his young widow, or my children? 
Did he die to further the political ambition of yourself or your colleagues? Or was it to allow you to ingratiate yourself upon the leaders of the most powerful, yet most hated and feared nation in the world today? 
DoI answer them that it is the cowardice of men too proud to admit to a horrible tragic error? 
Wherein lies the truth  Mr Prime  Minister, and how long must this carnage of Australian manhood continue How many more must die under the conditions you have chosen to impose. What is the truth? Why? For what? 
In the depthless horror of sorrow and grief. I turn to my friends and ask, but none can tell me, none can answer, so I must turn to you. 
Perhaps if in the interests of human justice, and of truth, the news media and journals of our day can find the courage to publish my letter to you,I may find truth, or perhaps,  Mr Prime  Minister, time may show that my son did not die in vain. 
I am amazed to think that tonight we have taken up almost 2 hours in discussing this matter when a number of other matters arise from the deliberations of the Standing Orders Committee in regard to reforms that might be made in the procedures of this place, lt is true, as has been said - but I intend to reiterate it - -that it makes no difference whatsoever whether we change the quorum from the number that is in the Standing Orders at the moment to even 1, because when the bells ring we all have to leave the committee rooms or wherever we are and we all experience the interruption. 1 am much more interested in what can be done to the Standing Orders and the business procedures of the House in order to save some time. I am quite confident that, if we put all the information into a computer, what it would spit back would be a request to confirm the source or origin of the information - whether it was Callan Park, Disneyland or the twilight zone. The factor that wasted the time of this chamber most in the last session was i &gt;e continual argument. Censure motions were moved by the Opposition against a Minister and against the Government. It is one of the principal rights of an Opposition to move such motions. The Minister or a Government supporter moved an amendment naming the person on this side of the House who had moved a motion censuring the Government or a Minister. We had continual arguments, did we not, as to interpretation, as to whether in fact the amendment ought to be accepted. We heard that it was an expanded negative and all sorts of stupid arguments that would not be accepted in a kindergarten form where children were just starting, to learn to speak and perhaps to debate. It is to these matters, rather than to quorums that this House could look to save time. 
It is all right to talk about what happens in the House of Commons. We all know or ought to know that only about 50% of the elected members in the House of Commons can crowd into the place. When there is a division in the House of Commons they have to throw the doors open, not lock them, because members have to keep filing through, in one end and out the other. It is of no use to make a comparison with the House of Commons; it is just too stupid for words. I suggest that we have spent enough time on this. 1 wanted to make those few small points. I will not take up any further the time of the House. Reduction of the number that constitutes a quorum will not save any time. I for one will vote that the number remain unaltered. 
Will the Prime Minister give the same consideration to age pensioners, undoubtedly in need, as Cabinet has seen fit to extend to two former Australian Governors-General in granting a pension of $7,500 to each GovernorGeneral and, upon their death, of S6.000 to the widows of those Governors-General? Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether these pensions are to be paid annually? Has the Government abolished the means test for former GovernorsGeneral? Will the Prime Minister take steps to implement the same principle for all pensioners where such means tests deny pensions to citizens otherwise entitled to them? 
I rise to seek clarification following what the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  said. Will this motion, if carried, deny any debate at all on the motion to adjourn the House, when members are normally afforded an opportunity to speak on various matters? 
 I am seeking clarification. I apologise ifI appear to be somewhat distrustful of members on the Government side. ( am seeking clarification, which is my right. On many occasions in the past there have been disputes over the actions of Government Whips. I certainly include the honourable member for Angas in this. He has not been as honest in his explanations as perhaps he could have been in the past, and this is the very reason I seek clarification. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party I desire to oppose the Budget measures and to support the amendment. This Budget is inadequate, unimaginative and irresponsible. It is a typical product of Liberal Party deception and of the Australian Country Party's confusion and obvious calamity. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  said that he was conscious of the problems facing rural industries. All I can say to that is that he must be speaking from the subconscious area of his mind, and I should imagine that if it were exposed to a psychiatrist it could only be described as a head shrinker's nightmare. 
The Budget could be referred to as a Budget of ambush. The Parliament which was elected at the general election met last November at some considerable waste of money to the Commonwealth, because it quickly and swiftly went into recess to lick its wounds until 3rd March of this year. During the course of the submis sions from many honourable members on the Government side the term 'in accordance with the Prime Minister's policy speech' was used. We on this side of the House have heard that term used in connection with taxation. We have waited somewhat patiently for some form of real taxation reform, lt is obvious from public agitation since the bringing down of the Budget that the public, after examining the Budget, does not consider that the Government has introduced any great reforms on this occasion. I refer to the Budget as a Budget of ambush because the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  early in his speech, started to inform the House and the people of Australia what taxation relief they would find in the Budget. Then he waylaid them with talk about indirect forms of taxation, which 1 will deal with more specifically later on. Therefore I coined the phrase 'a Budget of ambush', lt is the product of  Mr Bury,  the costive Treasurer, who is unable to budget. 
It is obvious that the word has gone around to members of the Government parties that if they dare stand in this chamber and speak on the measures contained in the Budget they will be out of step with their colleagues and what the Cabinet might think. Honourable members opposite have made an attempt to turn this debate into a debate on law ;md order. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has gone on record as saying that his Party must become a party of can kickers, can carriers and can pushers. I suggest to the Minister that he might kick the bucket while he is kicking the can. The contribution of Government supporters to this debate is nothing more than a gigantic smoke screen to fool the people of this country. The Government has been fooling them for many years. We remember that in the early 1950s it was said that we would be slaughtered in 3 years time and taxation had to be raised. We remember the fu t ce of the Petrov issue. This was all deception on the part of the Government which sought to get itself re-elected on subterfuge, a tissue of lies and untruths. 
Honourable members on this side of (he House remember, as do many members of the community, the year 1963 when the purchase of the Fill was raised. I have referred to this in previous debates in this chamber. Today there is still an extremely high wastage of the taxpayers' money - not government money. I abhor the term government money'. It is the people's money, the taxpayers' money. The Government is the custodian of that money in the public interest. On that point the Government has failed dismally. 
In this chamber from time to time we hear a great deal said about water conservation and other developmental projects generally and the cost benefit analyses that must be applied to them. This matter has been argued in relation to the Ord River scheme, the Chowilla Dam, the Burdekin River scheme and others of which there are almost too many to mention. Some thought ought to be given to a tax benefit analysis because of the extremely high rate of taxation in this country. What ought to be questioned are the benefits which flow to the people of Australia after the spending and squandering of the revenue collected. I have sat here patiently and have waited for over a week for some sign of understanding on the part of anybody on the Government benches in regard to many of the real issues - not cows, sheep and whathaveyou - that ought to concern people. After all, people are important in this community. I do not for one moment deny the rights of the rural community in the predicament in which the Government has placed it, but I point out that the rural community by and large has seen fit to support the Government. 
I have not heard one word from honourable members opposite that leads me to believe that the Government has any semblance of idea about bold planning for the rural industries. In spite of the criticism levelled at Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, I would most certainly say that he would be a much more competent person to cure the ills of the rural community. The wool growers and farmers generally would be in a much bet er position today if he were at the helm of the rural industries instead of the Country Party which constantly cries about need. Its need, of course, is for thought and bold planning for the rural industries. Country Party members have maintained their interest in rural matters by saying that nobody from this side of the House has said anything on that subject. 
I recall a speech that I made in this chamber not very long ago when I said that a considerably higher return for the grower could be obtained if the problem were merely glanced at, let alone submitted to a thorough and proper examination. I referred to the part that the shipping industry plays in the handling of wool, but not one thing has been done about it. I will end my reference to this matter on this note: The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  trotted off overseas with $40m to give the Australian shippers a voice in the Conference line. We have no voice there. We are still haggling and our efforts to relieve the tremendous burden of increases which are being proposed by people who are outside the control of the Government are being sabotaged by  Sir William  Gunn. I have made this observation before and I will continue to make it until someone on the Government benches - in the short time that the Government will occupy those benches - is prepared to do something about it. The shipowners are holding this country to ransom. They commenced as pirates and they continue to be pirates. I ask: What became of our $40m? Is it in a Swiss Bank? It has not given us any voice in the Conference lines. It is $40m of the taxpayers' money. 
Some analysis ought to be made of the value we get for high taxation. Let me mention another example. Although the Australian National Line has a container ship trading between here and Japan, that Conference line vessel owned by Australia exceeded the 15% of cargo it was entitled to and has to pay to the Conference millions of dollars of the Australian taxpayers' money. That is an absolute scandal. I ask: Where is the cut in freight rates? Where is the relief of this burden? What voice have we in protecting the interests of Australian shippers and in turn protecting the interests of rural industry, the interests of those who live in cities and urban areas, and the interests of secondary industry? Much has been said in this chamber about what the rural industries ought to do by way of diversification. It is a crying shame that a country such as Australia, which is one of the most - if not the most - arid continents in the world has to restrict its food production when we are surrounded by millions of people who are starving. 
Last night the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  said in this chamber - I want it on the record that a Liberal Party member has said this in this debate - that as far as he is concerned poverty does not exist in Australia and that he would regard any state of affairs as being poverty only if it was judged by Asiatic standards. In other words, pensioners in this country, according to that Liberal Party member, have to be in the gutters like the unfortunates in Asiatic countries, before he recognises them as being poverty stricken. What sort of mind has this intellectal got when he starts to express that type of thinking in this chamber. It is a disgrace to the Liberal Party that it ever selected a person of the calibre of the honourable member for Denison. What is more disgraceful and disgusting is that his colleagues on that side of the House did not condemn him for the utterances he made here yesterday. I remind the honourable member for Denison of what poverty by Australian standards is. If he were prepared to elevate his thinking from the concrete jungle environment in which he has found himself he would perhaps be of some service to the Australian community. 
I have heard from very few members on the other side of the House as to what the Budget contains for the aged and for those on social services. I would throw the Budget at honourable members opposite if such action were not unparliamentary. At page 71 the Budget contains 48 categories of social welfare. Alterations and increases in thoses categories number only 8. I invite honourable members opposite to examine those increases. If honourable members opposite think that the 12 wise men in the Cabinet paid proper and due regard to the need in the social services sector, I am amazed. To sit there and to back a Treasurer who makes provision for an increase of a little over 3% in age pensions is disgraceful. What did the Budget provide for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to take photographs of aged people here last week? Those people were refused entry here - and indeed shelter - last week. The Budget provided for an increase of 13% for ASIO to enable it, among other things, to take photographs of the pensioners, at over 50c a pop, which is the increase that the Budget gave them. If that is not a disgrace, I would like to know what is. Into whichever field the Government has gone it has introduced discrimination and double standards. 
Many honourable members on the Government side have said that increased costs have been the result of wage increases, but the Government has budgeted for further wage increases in the next 12 months. Perhaps those increases will not be sufficient. But honourable members opposite have not said one word about the increased prices charged by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd. Four men sat around a board table in Australia, on this occasion, under some overseas influence and perhaps dominance for that matter, and decided to increase the cost of their products, which will increase the costs of this country. Rural industries must bear the brunt of that increase. I notice that the number of Country Party members has depleted since I rose. I do not know why they make their pleas when increased cost is never recognised by the Government parties. Honourable members opposite cannot tell me that the provisions in the Budget will not increase the cost of living. I refer particularly to the increase in the price of petrol. Anyone with any sense, if there is any sense or reasoning on the other side, would realise that a 3c a gallon increase in the price of petrol would hurt the small taxpayer. The Government extracts the most by taxing the smaller pleasures of the battlers. An increase in the price of petrol will mean a rise in the cost of services generally. The increase will have a bearing on the cost of transportation generally. Railways, local government, etc. will be affected. The increase will be reflected in the higher cost of living. 
The increase of 50c a week in pensions will be gone in no time. In my electorate in South Australia increased rents will more than take care of the 50c. People living in cottage homes, which are subsidised by the Government, will have to pay more. Other organisations in South Australia and no doubt throughout the Commonwealth will be affected because of the shortsightedness and the stupidity of the Government over the years in not making proper and adequate provisions in this area of social services. These organisations have sought to provide homes for the aged. The Government should have had the good sense to maintain a controlling interest in those homes, in the interests of the occupants of the homes. The organisations - irrespective of whether they are church organisations, charitable organisations, organisations run by local government or similar organisations - are faced with increasing costs. 
The price of land rises, rates go up. I suppose there are more land sharks in this Government than in any other government in Australia. They are a cause of part of the trouble. The Government should have maintained a continuing interest in this area. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is in the House, must be a disappointed man and a dejected soul today because of his failure, as one of the 1 2 wise men, to influence the others. There is no doubt in my mind - and I have not been reliably informed - that he did have some proposals to put before the Cabinet for increases over and above the SOc a week that was granted to the pensioners. Unfortunately, he could not find any listeners. We are a nation of 12.5 million people. Of that number there is a high percentage of adults. It was a terrible thing that the Minister could not use sufficient persuasion to convince 7 men out of 12 that something ought to be done in regard to the matters to which I have referred. lt seems to me that after waiting, listening and almost becoming bored while waiting, something about the wine excise imposed by the Government would have been said. Not one word has been said. The only reference to that excise was in a question asked of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  yesterday. The wine industry is one of the few rural industries that have not joined the long queue waiting for handouts or subsidies. The Liberal member for Denison, to whom I referred earlier, yesterday referred to workers and others as being bludgers. I would hate to apply that term to those rural industries that are in the long queue because I think that would be offensive. I hesitate to use that word. I merely mention it to draw to the attention of the House and of whoever may be listening that that is the thinking of the Liberal Party. The honourable member said that the workers were bludgers. Similarly, in this debate the other night, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that pensioners were bums. He endeavoured to wriggle out of that statement later in the evening but as far as I am concerned he referred in this chamber to pensioners as bums. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
1 remind the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that the honourable member for Boothby, the honourable member for Angas and I have the same privileges. The honourable member for Boothby is absent from the chamber at the moment. We can check our green carbon copies of our speeches and certain alterations - I say with due respect to the Hansard staff - are possible. The honourable member for Boothby did make that statement in this chamber. 
-! want to deal with a matter which was raised by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  The situation is that each year on an Appropriation Bill or on a tariff Bill honourable members have limited time in which to make their remarks. According to the document that is now before us it is suggested that the time be cut from 15 minutes to 10 minutes. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  spoke the other day in this House in the debate on the Budget and he took up his full allocation of 30 minutes, but in terms of the value of his speech he might as well have spoken for 5 seconds. The fact is that this Committee has recommended that 10 minutes be allowed for each honourable member. This amendment provides that the time be cut by an additional 5 minutes. 
In that case we should have some clarity on this, because that is the way I see it. I do not want to come back here in a week or so and find out that this is what was in fact carried. 
lt will mean a reduction of the time allowed. If we are going to have committees set up all over the place and we are not prepared to face up to the proper concept of a parliamentary committee then 1 do not know where we will finish up. What I am trying to get at - perhaps in a roundabout way - is that we are either in this place or we are not. I think there is a great deal of merit in what was brought on previously in regard to allocating a free morning to deal with government departments and so on at a time when they are open for business, lt must be remembered that a limitation can be placed on debates by cutting down the number of speakers. Honourable members are crying out to cut down on this and on that. This would enable other honourable members who wish to speak in these debates to be afforded additional opportunities to take part in debates. However, nowhere in any of these documents before us is there any such guarantee. We can still be defeated by the procedures of the House and the Standing Orders. I oppose this amendment in its entirety. From what I have heard in this chamber tonight. I think it would be a retrograde step to agree to such a proposal. 
I present  the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, due to higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are rinding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance m accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The average weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Honourable members have been deliberating in this chamber off and on for a couple of weeks on some form of improvement or reform. I hold the very strong view that little can be done about reform in this House until one starts to look at these  2  almost infamous documents. However, do honourable members who are debating this question realise that if they do not support the amendment  25  members will suffice for the taking of a division. Let honourable members get out on the hustings at election time and tell the people from whom they expect support that of a total of  125  elected members if  25  members vote in a division a simple majority of those who vote will suffice for an affirmative decision. One half of the Ministry could be missing. How serious would that be? I shall never give my support to such a measure as long as I sit here. I consider, in fact, that more serious matters which come before this House are dealt with in a most cavalier and casual manner indeed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I ask the honourable member not to get too wide of the amendment. 
Perhaps at the risk of being required by the Chair to come to the point I do no more than reiterate that if one-fifth of the members were sufficient for a division, half of the Ministry could be missing. In view of some of the things they do all the Ministers ought to be missing. Honourable members opposite should go out and tell the public what they intend to do. The public will not in any circumstances agree with them. Yet we had a situation in  thu House this morning  in which all sorts of subterfuges were adopted by honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns). 
We have before us a very serious matter. Under the terms of the Bill now before us, decisions of this Parliament can be made and Bills can be passed with only a very small minority of the elected members of this Parliament being present and at the same time this Government is attempting te give such decisions an air of legality. Bills could be passed with only a few honourable members here. If this is not a minority form of government then I would like someone to inform me what is. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Kingston, interjects and says thai it is a stacked meeting. Honourable members opposite stand up in this place and attack the trade union movement. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member is getting very wide of the matter which is before this Committee. 
Honourable members opposite would attack trade unions if they had some of those rules and provisions in their constitutions. I deplore the proposal now before the Committee. We should at least grab some straw in an attempt to save the situation. We should support unanimously the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills and thereby save face. 
I understand that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  said that he had consulted the party Whips in regard to the matter which is now before the House. The chuckles coming from the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  show that he is anticipating what I am about to say. For the estimates for the Defence Services - the Departments of Defence, Navy, Army. Air and Supply, and General Services - we will have a total of 5 hours to discuss the expenditure of- a colossal sum of money. This Government and previous governments have been squandering public money since 1963 on one aspect of our air defences. Obviously I am referring to the FI 1 1 aircraft. A colossal sum of money has been spent on these aircraft. But the Department of Air is fourth on the list under Defence Services and 5 hours has been allotted for the total discussion on Defence Services. This section of the Estimates involves the Departments of Defence. Navy, Army, Air and Supply, and General Services. There will be very little time for the Fill to be discussed in this House. Admittedly the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement on this matter in this House a short time ago. A colossal amount of money is being spent on Phantom aircraft, which are now flying into Australia. They will be used only for a very short time and their cost will be exceptionally high. Again, there is insufficient time to go into that matter. 
Expenditure by Australia on defence has amounted to about $ 1.000m a year for a number of years. In fact it has been higher than that. Yet the Leader of the House has had the gall this afternoon to move this motion and to request us to agree with it He said that at some time the present Opposition party had applied the guillotine when it was in office. That was done because the Opposition of that time was callous and vicious. 
The Government ls asking us to limit the time for debate of these matters because it has squandered thousands of millions of dollars of public money year after year on the Fill, to mention one item, and I need go no further than it at this stage. Today, although honourable members on the Government side say that Australia has a dire defence need, Australia has never been more defenceless, in spite of the vast sums squandered. 
The Department of National Development is another department which I want to mention briefly in the short time available to me. lt is proposed that we have 2t hours to debate the estimates for (he Department of National Development. There has not been one sincere word from the Government about this Department so far as the construction of a nuclear power station is concerned. This project involves hundreds of millions of dollars and the money will come from the taxpayers. There could be considerable debate on that one project: alone because the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has stated that 1 1 tons of paper has to be examined before a decision on it can be made known to the House. 
In the next week or two honourable members on this side of the House are required to debate the 2 matters 1 mentioned, along with estimates for about 20 other important departments - I have not counted them - and this has to be done in the extremely short time suggested. The Leader of the House said that the House ought to agree with his suggestion. He tried to gloss the matter over by saying that the time allowed might be better than was the case the previous year. What has gone on in previous years is not damn well good enough this year so far as the Opposition is concerned. The Leader of the House and the Government ought to give proper and serious consideration to debating expenditure of the taxpayers money instead of squandering it. Ministers do not even give half replies to questions put to them in this place. One could say that most Ministers do not answer questions put to them. 
In dealing with the estimates for the Parliament this evening there are a few points I would like to raise as to what the role of Parliament ought to be. I want to refer to some aspects of Parliament that have caused waste down through the years. One of the first things I would like to draw to the attention of this Mouse is the fact that some 1.2 years ago a decision was taken to set up a joint committee at considerable cost. After long deliberation the joint committee brought down a report which dealt with a review of the Constitution. I imagine that the cost of producing this report would have been about S 100,000 or, £50,000 in the currency of that time. Nothing has been done about the report by the Parliament since then and the Federal Constitution is such today that it almost inhibits good government. It does so far as the present Government is concerned. 
It is obvious that the Government does not want constitutional reform. It wants to shirk its responsibilities and is not prepared to accept hs responsibilities on behalf of the Australian people. This is one of the reasons why so often we hear Ministers say in reply to questions directed to them: This is a matter for the States' or 'That is a matter for the States'. I represent a Federal electorate the boundaries of which include parts of a number of State electorates and part of an electoral division of the South Australian Legislative Council - and God forbid that I should even mention the Legislative Council in this place. The fact is that residents of my electorate are Federal constituents as well as State constituents and the responsibility of the Federal Government in many fields should be greater than it is at the moment. Health is not adequately and properly taken care of and education is in a shocking condition. I entirely agree with what teacher organisations throughout Australia have said when they have referred to a crisis in education. 
The honourable member for Angas never seems to be pulled up by the  Speaker  or the  Chairman  for his continual interjections when I am speaking. From time to time he claims in this chamber that certain things are in accordance with the policy enunciated in a speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  although which speech he is referring to is often extremely obscure. I suggest that the honourable member should acquaint himself with the contents of this report related to constitutional reform. I cannot recall whether the honourable member was a member of this House when that committee made its deliberations, but the fact is that it is shameful that this document should have been available for so long yet the Government, or for that matter the Parliament, has not seen fit to look at the Committee's recommendations and to try to put some life into our Constitution which would be hardly fit for the horse and buggy days when it was written. In fact, one often reflects that perhaps federation came too soon. It may have been better had it been left until after 1910 when I am quite confident the Constitution would not have been in the form it is in today. I do not know whether in the short time at my disposal what I have said about this subject is likely to arouse the interest of Government members opposite. 
It would not arouse the honourable member for Angas. Nothing would shift him. He will continue to make speeches in this House in the manner he has done for many years. I recall a remark he made the other day about my sending telegrams. I make no apologies for sending  14  telegrams to  14  age pensioners whose representatives stood outside the front of this building in almost snow conditions and who were virtually refused admittance to the House. I can draw many parallels for members opposite, particularly those with rural interests at heart - wheat quotas, for example - who use their privileged ministerial positions to do all manner of frightful things, so do not have a shot at me for sending a few telegrams that cost about  $30,  because I had no compunction about sending them and I will send telegrams in the future. I sent a telegram down the corridor to the honourable member for Angas only because I was prevailed upon to do so by people who live in his electorate and whom he should represent in this place far better than he was doing or was likely to do at that time. However, do not distract me any further. I point out to the honourable member that if he is guilty he should not cast stones at other people. 
No,  1  did not.  1  have told the honourable member and I do not intend to elaborate. The fact is that this Government has not done anything to reform the Parliament to meet the present day requirements of the people. I have already mentioned constitutional review. Does it surprise honourable members to know that in its investigations the committee referred to what were the peaceful nuclear aims for Australia, yet the Government, as I said earlier this afternoon, is spending a tremendous amount of money, without debate as yet in this place, on a nuclear power station. This matter was considered by this constitutional review committee as far back as  1958  yet the Government has sat on the report and done nothing with it. It is apparent that it does not intend to do anything with the report. The Government has been in office too long. It has surrounded itself with a wall of apathy and indifference and does not recognise the problems of the people in the Commonwealth. This is obvious from the fact that this afternoon we heard statements from members opposite about pensions and such matters. What hypocrisy! Surely if a Government member were worth his salt, knowing what was proposed for pensioners in the Budget, and he had any sort of fortitude at all he would have stood his ground firmly, as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is not in the chamber tonight, should have done on the matter of social welfare. No member opposite did that so why should they rise and make hypocrites of themselves by criticising the Government's provision for pensioners. Another honourable member opposite referred to  2  former Governor-Generals getting- 
Is the Minister for National Development aware of the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review presented in 1959? Has he or the Government considered that Committee's recommendation for constitutional amendments to empower the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to, firstly, the manufacture of nuclear fuels and the generation and use of nuclear energy and, secondly, ionising fuels? Has the Government made its decision to construct the nuclear power station in the Australian Capital Territory at Jervis Bay on the basis of its having totality of constitutional power in that Territory? If so, has the Government restricted its area of construction because of its failure to seek constitutional power to the extent necessary in the interests of the Commonwealth? Finally, will the Minister inform the House how the Government intends to control the introduction of nuclear power into the various States and particularly as to final waste disposal areas both for the Jervis Bay and other possible future stations? 
I will take only two or three minutes to reply to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who, like a magpie on a branch, waited until he heard the Opposition's case and then swooped down from behind and attempted to misconstrue what we on this side have said about bounties. As I tried to point out to the honourable member a few moments ago, he would employ his time in this place better if he listened carefully to what other honourable members said instead of continually making remarks to me across the aisle that separates us. For about the fourth time in the last 24 hours I again refer to a document which the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has said does not exist - the report of the Constitutional Review Committee. In its report the Committee took several pages to deal with the position of primary industries. 
Honourable members on this side of the House have not advocated a reduction in the bounty but have advocated a more equitable distribution of the millions of dollars involved with a view to providing greater benefits for the man who works hardest in the industry and gets least from it. Honourable members opposite, particularly the sorrowful looking members of the Country Party, say a lot about costs in primary industry but do nothing to give the battler in the industry a go. Why do they continually and without justification criticise one sector of the industry? You do nothing to help the primary producer by increasing the price of petrol, as this Government has done. The primary producer is not helped in any way when the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd jacks up its prices. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has seen fit to raise a certain matter tonight. One might think that he has always been an orderly sort of bloke, but I can remember that during my Service career when he had some responsibility he was such a shocking person, even in those days as a member of the Services, that he tried to blow me off a place called Shaggy Ridge. 
If it is taken in that way, I most certainly want to clear up the matter. No-one admires a man who lies when that same liar masks himself as a decent man and in a loud voice proclaims- 
No. As I was saying, no-one admires a man who lies when he masks himself as a decent man and in a loud voice proclaims that he is honest and that all who oppose him are fools or charlatans. He is indeed a very poor citizen. 
Now I want to go back a little further. During the last World War when this country was in some sort of a dire predicament and the Labor Party was on the 
Government benches, thank goodness, some members of the South Australian Liberal Party went to country centres in South Australia with the clear intent of sabotaging war loan rallies. These people were taken to task by the newspapers -of the day and they hid, of course, behind the protection of the 'Advertiser'. I would like to quote from an article written about the Adelaide 'Advertiser'. Part of the article states: 
The 'Advertiser' has a special fondness for  Senator McLeay,  noisy leader of the South Australians in what  Sir Keith  Murdoch himself has called the right wing of the U.A.P. 
When the  Senator, along  with J. G. DuncanHughes, M.H.R.- brother of  Sir Wither  Duncan of the B.H.P. - was concerned in some sabotage on the third Commonwealth Liberty Loan in April 1943, the 'Advertiser' on their behalf did a very neat job of suppression and distortion. 
The  Senator and Mr Duncan-Hughes  were asked to speak at a loan rally which followed their political meeting at Kapunda on the night of Tuesday, April 13th. 
To report on this Kapunda meeting, the Advertiser' sent a special staff man.  His  report in the 'Advertiser* on the Wednesday morning, however, didn't mention the loan rally. No mention of it appeared in the press at all until the Thursday, when a two-column story in the 'News' said: Strong protests have been made to the State War Loan Committee by the Mayor of Kapunda  (Mr H. Rees)  and Warrant Officer Frank Legg at the attitude of 3 U.A.P. Members of Parliament towards the third Liberty Loan at their Kapunda meeting. 
It goes on to show how in fact during a time of war members of the Liberal Party, who in those days were in Opposition, saw fit to conduct themselves because of their petty Party politics. Yet honourable members on the other side of the House have the hide and the temerity to stand in this chamber and to make derisive comments about members of the Opposition, asking whether or not they are wearing Moratorium badges. 
Let me say to the honourable member for Angas who has had 9 or 10 trips to Vietnam that if his Government remains in office he will be able to say in another 9 years that he has had 19 trips to Vietnam. Honourable members opposite stand in this chamber and talk about foreign aid and pots and pans on the one hand and bombs and rockets on the other. I do not think that this is much to their credit. Yes, people on this side of the House want the war in Vietnam to end. The people of Vietnam have demanded no more than the people of India demanded at the end of the Second World War. They are demanding no more than what the people of Burma were granted at the end of the Second World War. I happened to be in part of Indonesia before that war ended and I saw the bombed tanks which carried slogans for freedom. Why not? This was the entitlement of the Indonesians. If the French had not carried on as they did no-one would be involved in the situation in which we are embroiled today in Vietnam. It is not to Australia's credit that we are in Vietnam in our present capacity. It is not to the credit of the honourable member for Angas for him to stand in this chamber and to deride people. He knows as well as anyone else that tonight he cast a slur on the South Australian police force when he said that it would not perhaps take any notice of the Government which has been elected to power by the majority of the people in that State. If that is not a suggestion that the police will order, aid and abet against law and order I would like someone to put an interpretation on what the honourable member had to say. 
No-one suggests that North Vietnam should win. I am not talking about who will win. I am saying that hostilities should cease. I am saying that if we do not learn to live with the rest of the people in these countries we will die with the rest of the people in these countries. If the interjection of the person who sits in this chamber tonight proposing to be the pinnacle of law and order is meant to suggest that we as the Commonwealth ought to exist only on the basis that we should send troops into certain countries, perhaps the argument could be used to justify sending our troops into Italy where we might think there could be a Communist government. We could send them into the eastern bloc area. In fact, that is what honourable members are saying here tonight. We could even go as far as to say that we could send troops to Sweden to protect that country against Russia because it has a common border with that country. That is the suggestion that has been made in this chamber tonight. The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  is a person who has sought a lot of publicity in recent weeks over one of the greatest acts that this Commonwealth has seen. It was almost as bad as the Petrov affair for which the people of Australia are still paying. The Minister came out with a bat when perhaps all he had to do was talk to the people. I do not agree with what they did that afternoon. They interfered with his rights as a citizen by invading his home- 
I do not agree for ona moment with what those lads did that afternoon; but I think that in fact the Minister was in on the joke to some extent. The manner in which he has carried on in this chamber tonight indicates to me quite clearly what would be his attitude if there was any strife at any gathering, be it of farmers or any other people. That reminds me that a lot of publicity was given to 6 farmers in Adelaide. A young lad was standing there with a placard saying that in his opinion the country's rural ills could be cured by the old order of supply and demand, and these 6 farmers came out of the march and trampled his placard to pieces and tore it up. That was shown on television. There was not a murmur about that. Not one word was said about that. I suppose that if somebody else had been involved something would have been said. 
I am deeply disappointed in regard to the Moratorium to be held in Adelaide and other places. I was to address it tomorrow, along with a person who stood in this chamber and accepted his responsibilities as a citizen, a parliamentarian and an ambassador of this country. I refer, of course, to  Sir Norman  Makin. I would have been proud to address an organised, orderly law-abiding body of people with him. I certainly would not shirk my responsibility to do so. 
Let me conclude on this note: I can recall that when I was in a military camp during the war we used to be given leave about once a month. But when the Government had some intension of banning the Communist Party, it threw the camps open for weeks on end until troops stoned the George Street offices and headquarters of the Communist Party on a Sunday night. 
Then Bob Menzies brought in his Bill on the Monday or Tuesday. In reflecting on that, I realise that we were used. That is what could well happen in this country today. 
I could say a great deal more about what  Senator McLeay,  along with his parliamentary colleagues of that day, indulged in and the criticism that was hurled at them at that time when this country was at war. People such as the honourable member for Angas do not like it- very much. It does not sound too good. It would not look too good in print either. Nevertheless it is true. Yet he. has the hide to stand here tonight and refer to people who are wearing Moratorium badges. Let me say this to him: Let him visit the homes of the kids who do not return from Vietnam. 
You . have never visited some that I know of. 
Is it good? it is a tragedy in which we should never have become involved. No good will ever come from it. We will never get peace from it. If honourable members opposite think we will, they are living in an age and they belong to an age which is a long way off, although it is only 20 years ago. It annoys me to think that people in this chamber seem to consider that the policies of 1939, 1945 or 1949 are good enough to solve the problems of the world today. They seem to consider that the geographical and political differences of today can be met by the same methods as were tried in those years, and even on nuclear bombs- 
First of all I want to make brief mention of the speeches of some Government supporters who have entered this debate and in the main confined their remarks to rural industry. I think the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who spoke just a short while ago, made some brief reference to ships. I would suggest that if his knowledge of ships and the searching of ships is no better than that which he displayed in this chamber he had better stick to the rabbit burrows of his electorate and rural affairs about which he might know something. But what does annoy me is that the honourable member for Mallee came into this House after a by-election in 1946, if I am informed correctly, and has sat here for all those long, fruitless, wasted years and has not had sufficient initiative to ensure that as from 1960, when the writing was on the wall that rural production as at 1960 would be maintained and would increase between 1960 and 1968, some interest would be shown in obtaining additional markets. He spoke about the Australian Country Party and the tariffs it has obtained for industry. 
The Country Party has dictated the tariff policies of this country for some considerable time and today there is probably a considerable argument in the Country Party as to who will have the tariff whip in his hand when the grand old man finally retires. But more deplorable still is the fact that the honourable member made some mention of the European Economic Community. Those members who have been here much longer than I will recall that at one time the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on an evening programme mentioned the European Economic Community an&gt;i made some individual comment on it. Did not the then Prime Minister ring him up and say: 'Is that you, Bury, old boy? You were a Minister; you are sacked.' That is how far back it goes but nothing has been done by honourable members opposite to explore the possibility of finding new markets. 
I rose today principally to protest against the Government's action in this Budget of imposing a most unfair, unjust and stupid excise on wine. Here was an industry almost alone in the rural context that has not joined the long queue for the handouts and subsidies which the honourable member for Mallee mentioned. He is in a grape growing and agricultural area but he made no mention of wine. I have a number of wine distilleries within my electorate. Perhaps some honourable members are surprised and wonder why I raise this matter but  1  would have done so even if these wine distilleries were not within my electorate. The point I want to make here is that .this wine excise has been most unfairly imposed on an industry which, without being controlled by the Govern ment as so many other primary industries are in spite of what has -been said, was able to look to its own shortcomings and was able to look forward to a considerable programme of expansion, at least in South Australia. The return to the grower is a matter of considerable concern to him and he is a person about whom honourable members of the Country Party ought to be concerned. After a struggle with the wine producers some few years ago they were able to stabilise a price to the grower but the imposition of this excise returns to the Government just as much as, if not more than, the growers receives. 
The reason for the problems in our rural, industries today is that the Government has not recognised that in almost every sphere of primary industry the grower is not getting sufficient return. In the last few weeks Government members have been prone to regard wages as being a dirty word and profits, irrespective of who gets them and at what scale, is the magic word. Government members have condemned the Australian Council of Trade Unions and trade unions generally for rises in costs and for the resultant shortcomings in the primary industries but they know as well as I do. but have not the courage to say it. that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd board of 5 or 6 men created the higher cost factor for primary industries and not the trade union movement. 
I have taken up with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  a number of complaints from wine producers in South Australia. I only hope - and J have no reason to doubt it - that he is attending to these matters of concern to the wine producers since they are, of course, of interest to his Department. The imposition of the proposed tax will, in fact, mean that the wine industry may well join the long and woeful queue of primary industries that are in trouble. The dismal Minister for Primary industry  (Mr Anthony)  tells us almost every day what dairy producers, wheat growers and other primary producers ought to do. He says that they should get out of the industry. No doubt it will not be fong before he is saying this of wine growers, because the Government has placed a tax. on wine previously untaxed. The Minister should pay some greater attention to this matter and he should examine the situation in more detail. 1 do not say this critically. I am criticising the tax which should not be imposed. 1 do not think the Government will ever remove it. I do not think it has sufficient common sense to listen to the sound arguments of the growers who are saying: 'Knock it off. Do not proceed with it.' The Government has imposed this stupid tax so I say to the Government, for God's sake, as far as the Customs Department is concerned, whether or not it may mean some increase in expenditure in some small narrow area, at least relieve the wine makers of the burden of any additional cost with which they are likely to be inflicted under the proposal. - . 
I desire to enter this debate to support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and which now lies on the table. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who has just resumed his seat, has been in this place only a little longer, but not much longer, than I have been here. He has fallen already into the trap of reflecting the thinking of the Government in relation to housing, which is a very urgent matter. 
It is not just good enough in 1970 to stand in this chamber, as we have seen some honourable members on the other side during the course of the debate on the Estimates, and make stupid comparisons between what was expended in 1949 and what it is proposed to expend in 1970-71. I do not suppose that a student doing a thesis on a simple subject would want to make comparisons using those periods to prove that there was anything relative in them. However the honourable member for Curtin who, having resumed his seat, has left the chamber now, has fallen into this trap because he has seen fit to go into a whole heap of figures and, to some extent, statistics, etc. 
Let us bring the debate back to the needs of young people in our community today. Let us consider those young persons who are embarking upon the purchase of a home. Let us consider those who are inquiring and starting to think about setting1 up a home and what confronts them. Would it be any good for me to stand in this chamber this afternoon and say in respect of the areas of Rostrevor, Campbelltown, Paradise and Dernancourt in the electorate which I represent that I was doing justice to the burdens that confront these young people who will become new home owners or who are new home owners by saying that 5,000 new electors have come into these areas since writs were issued for the last Federal House of Representatives election? No! 
What ought to be said in this chamber - and it should be said more often - is that this Government by its actions since the time when the last Federal election was held has heaped a burden upon the home owner that is an absolute and utter disgrace. I mention a report in the Adelaide Advertiser' of today's date. This newspaper has only just arrived here and. as yet. I have not had time to look at it thoroughly. But I notice that, on page 6. that builders themselves deny that they are back to a normal building programme. In fact, I will quote this report. Tt states in part: 
The  president  of the South Australian branch of the association  (Mr F. Wilkinson)  said that housing in South Australia, even after a slight increase in the 1969-70 figures, was still running at the low 1961-62 credit-squeeze level. 
The credit squeeze of 1961-62 was imposed by a government of the same political persuasion as the present Government which repeated that stupid action earlier this year. The call was that inflation was present. In taking that action, the Government has retarded progress in an area that was just getting back on its feet in some States. Of course, I refer to the building industry area. 
Let us consider what has been said in this chamber and indeed in other places by so-called responsible Ministers of this Government. I refer also to Press state ments that have been made by them. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is now overseas witnessing some demonstrations in some of the areas to which his mission from this country has taken him. The Treasurer saw fit to describe the action taken by the Government in relation to the economic situation in somewhat different terms from those used by his Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  But, since then, both gentlemen have said that conditions have returned to normal. If the Government maintains that the situation has returned to normal because of its actions and because of the policy, short-term as it may be, that was introduced by the action of the Government in March last, if my memory serves me correctly, and if the Government maintains that by its action it has arrested the inflationary spiral, why should the Government - and I include in my remarks the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who is sitting at the table - look at the need to provide relief to the lifetime burden which has been placed on the shoulders of young people in my electorate by the increase in interest rates? This burden has been inflicted upon young people in other electorates also. I ask whether the Government stopped to think about its action and the consequences that would result from it. Perhaps the Government thought of these things, but I ask whether it really paid any regard at all to what its action was likely to mean to those, people who had existing arrangements with banks and the like, and other lending institutions which followed the action of the Government and increased their interest rates? 
Let us take the case of a person who is paying back a mortgage over a period of 25 years. The fact is that, if the interest charged on that loan has increased from  6i  per cent to 7 per cent, that person will be required to pay at least an additional $1,000 on that loan. By its action to arrest the inflationary spiral the Government through the increased interest rates that it has imposed has taken back the benefit gained by the people. If interest rates had not been increased, these people would not have been required to carry this additional burden for what might be called the larger part of their working lives. 
What is wrong with that concept? I ask the Minister for the Army, who is at the table: What is wrong with that concept? 
Why is it that the Government has never done this before? Why is it that the Government has imposed these increased interest charges to overcome its economic problems in an area to which, if one accepts the words of the Government, some regard must be paid, in taking into consideration the concept of the overall economic situation at that time. This action is completely hypocritical. It is levelled at the younger people in the community. It is directed at the home owners in the community. Yet, we see members on the Government side who have the gall, the stupidity and, for that matter, the arrogance to come into this chamber and to say that because 'X' number of houses have been built since the Government imposed its new economic policy, all is good and there is nothing to worry about. There is a lot to be worried about. Honourable members opposite wonder why honourable members on this side of the Committee complain about the manner in which this Government has carried on in the last 2 sitting days. The action taken by the Government was nothing more than a diversionary tactic to direct attention away from the problems of the community. These are the problems of people who are a damned sight more important than answers to questions such as: Who waved a flag, for what, where, and so forth and so on? 
If a lending organisation has increased its interest rate from 7 per cent to 7i per cent, this will mean that over a 25 year period the repayment required will have been increased by almost $1,000. If the increase has been from 6i per cent to  Ti  per cent, this amount comes darn near to $2,000. And so it goes on and on. Irrespective of the source of a loan - whether it be from the Commonwealth Savings Bank, other savings banks, life assurance companies or other bodies - apart from loans through the War Service Homes Division, this burden has been inflicted upon these people. The Government by its actions has taken away from the actual wage earner a percentage of his or her weekly pay packet. Yet, in this chamber on that aspect of the matter we hear from time to time the hypocritical statement from Government members that the level of wages has continued to rise and, as a result of this, inflation has occurred. I invite honourable members to examine that statement. Where does the Government stop? When does the Government commence to understand that its policies over the years have not been objective policies in the interests of the people whom it represents? 
Why, in this chamber during the course of the last few days, my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  posed a question to the Prime Minister. It was a good question too! What sort of an answer did he get? The answer was a slight on the Premier of South Australia, because the Prime Minister happens not to like that person as a person or as a holder of that office, lt does not reflect anything on the Prime Minister either. The fact is this: If it is good enough for the Commonwealth to advance funds for the development of the fair city of Canberra and for other territories under the control of the Commonwealth, what is wrong with the concept that the Government ought to accept its responsibility, along with the vote that it receives, to arrest this tremendous burden which is placed upon teenagers and young people in the community as a result of the ever increasing and spiralling cost of land? Let us take the position in a newly developed area. With the use of bulldozers, a builder will be able to build a lot more easily and much more cheaply on land than a contractor could in the past. But young home buyers still must pay enormous sums for the land. 
Let us examine the question of the financial predicaments in which the State governments find themselves. Let us do this in spite of what has been said from time to time by the Prime Minister on this subject. It was mentioned by him even today in answer to a question. The State governments today are being accused by the Federal Government of being responsible for matters ranging from the proposed ban on the shooting of the red kangaroos to any other subject that honourable members may wish to name. The Commonwealth says that these are State responsibilities. But the States have not the responsibility nor have they the right to collect what must be described as the bulk of the revenue that is provided by way of taxation by every wage earner in the Commonwealth. It comes into Federal revenue. Part of Labour's policy is that cheaper finance will be made available to State governments and in turn to shire councils, local municipalities and so on for development of land for a whole host of purposes, one of which concerns the vital sector of home building. This Government causes ever increasing costs of homes. It lends money to State Government instrumentalities, such as water boards, at interest rates that impose upon them an ever increasing burden. This burden moves down the line until finally the poor old purchaser has to bear the brunt of it. 
Why is it that the Government as a lending authority imposes such a tremendous interest rate on the States which in turn have to pass on that burden? To sum it up in another way, although the people in the States initially provide the money through taxes, they pay again, again and again. One could stand for a week repeating that very word but 15 minutes is al) that the Government has seen fit to allot to individual honourable members speaking in this debate of a very serious problem confronting the community generally. In doing that simple act the Government has conveyed its regard for the problems associated with housing. Vet the honourable member who spoke for two or three minutes and who has now left the chamber said that housing is a State Government responsibility. I challenge him on that. Would he as a member of a State Government accept that housing was completely his Government's responsibility? He comes from Western Australia where the building of cottage homes, as a result of his Government's action and his own actions, has been reduced by 50 per cent, although the demand and the need for additional homes were there. 
The cost structure has risen out of all proportion. The Government has not looked at the trade practices that exist within the building industry today, particularly in respect of those houses in which a great deal of imported timber is used. Costs have risen as a result of a number of regulations, wise or unwise, within the States. Douglas  fir,  commonly known as 
Oregon,  should be landed  in  this country today at a much cheaper price than it has been for some years but the cost of it to the home builder is ever increasing. Has the Government ever given any thought to that? Has it ever given any thought to looking at the timber cartels that exist in this country? Of course it has not. The simple fact is that it represents those people and it does not represent the wage earner, the worker, the salary earner and those who come out here as migrants and who have to build homes at tremendous cost. He has to find suitable employment and a second job to carry his mortgage. He has to ensure that his wife will work and when he goes along to get a loan he has virtually to guarantee to the lending authority that his wife is not in short term employment. He has perhaps to go beyond that lending authority to other fringe areas of financial help at tremendous cost to himself. He may find himself working over &gt;he weekend in a part time capacity so as to keep his head above water. All these things ought to be known to the Government. If any Government supporter stands up and says that he is aware of them, my answer will be that the Government has not done anything about them. 
The Government has embarked on a policy in regard to homes for the aged and I am not criticising that policy. But it has made one tragic blunder here because it has not maintained a continuing interest in the people for whom it said it was providing homes for the rest of their lives. The Government has exploited this area of the community and I intend to deal with that matter in a subsequent debate. Let no Government supporter stand up here and try to make out that he has a halo around his head because of the Government's housing policy: it may well fall clown around his neck. 
It was not my intention to speak in this debate but I must make the observation for those who perhaps have not realised it that there is not one single Liberal Party member; outside of the Minister at the table, in the House tonight. I am sorry, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  who is at the table is a member of the Country Party but the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  was previously at the table and I thought he was in the House. I would not want to be accused of misrepresenting the Minister who is now at the table. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is now trying to interject, can sit down. I have listened to some stupid comments from honourable members who should be better qualified than I am. 
You can put your money where your mouth is frequently in respect of your electorate which is suffering from increased taxation. The fact is that members from the Government side continually attempt to criticise Opposition members for their contributions to this debate which, I might mention, the Opposition, in the main, has had to carry throughout this day and yesterday when we were discussing other financial measures. There have been occasions when not one member from the Government side has risen to speak in support of the Bills - mark you, not one member. And the honourable member for Angas fell into that category until we came to consider the wine excise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! There is no point of order. If the honourable member claims that there has been misrepresentation he may say so after the honourable member for Sturt has concluded his speech. 
I repeat, the honourable member for Angas never rose to his feet until the wine tax measure was being discussed. He has seen fit to wander through his electorate during the last few weeks attempting to hoodwink his constituents by saying that he would take some decisive action on their behalf regarding the implementation of the wine tax. It was only the contribution of my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  which dragged him to his feet in the debate yesterday. 
The honourable member is pointing. Tonight we have heard a deal of mention about economic growth. Where is the Government's policy on economic growth which is going to benefit those vast numbers of people in the community in the various States and Territories who enjoy no more than the base rate? Where is the Government's taxation relief to those people with families? Did it increase child endowment? Did it, in looking at the overall situation, decide, no doubt after rejecting the pleas of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that the Government should do more than increase pensions by 50c, to embark on a programme that will do nothing to relieve the burden of the lower income earner? Did it decide this in the light of what is happening today with applications for wage increases? The Government has a system of taxation which derives taxation from age pensioners. This evening we heard the hypocrisy of the honourable member for 
Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  when, in speaking to a taxation measure, he had the hide and temerity to say that to have 7 per cent or 8 per cent of Australians below the poverty line should be accepted, even though it involves 1 million people. It is an utter and absolute disgrace that any member of this House should condone our economic structure and talk of economic growth while there are 1 million people living in poverty. In speaking to a taxation measure and trying to condone poverty in Australia he tried to draw a comparison between the United States of America and Australia. He said that in America it is the less fortunates who have to put up. with such a policy. He went so low, in my opinion, as to mention the Negro population in the United States. 
The Minister interjects, but I would say definitely that the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley - and the Minister can read them in Hansard tomorrow - were clear.  His  very words, if I may quote them, were: 'That is not a baa average'. It is an indictment of this Government that 1 million people in Australia live in poverty. For a member of the Government to say that that is not a bad average is an indictment of that honourable member and, because of the esteem in which he is held by the Government, it is an indictment of the Government. For the honourable member for Lilley wages is a dirty word and profits, of course, is the golden, magic word. This fetches me to the question of what the Government has done about tax evasion in Australia, lt has paid lip service to it over the years, but what has it done about tax evasion? Where are the possibilities for wage and salary earners evading taxation? The wage earner has to rely on his memory in filling out his income tax form in the hope of getting some concessional allowance for his children of educational age, but there is a battery of clerks, computers and God knows what in the Taxation Branch trying to whittle him down for every lc he may have claimed in excess of what he is allowed to claim. However, this is not so with big business. Big business can evade taxation by taking other companies' losses. This Government does nothing about that whatever. 
I notice that the honourable member for Lilley has returned to the chamber and is in earnest conversation with me of his colleagues. This evening, when referring to some rise in unemployment figures in South Australia, because there is a different government in power there to what he thinks should be in power, he had the bide and temerity - in fact, I should say. and be must accept this fact unparliamentary though it may be, that perhaps he did not lie but he most certainly stretched the meaning of the word ambiguity' - to defend his Government's actions earlier in increasing taxation on motor vehicle sales tax from 25 per cent to 33 per cent when it put the motor industry in South Australia on the breadline. The Government has not been game enough to impose such a Steep increase on taxation which affects the motor vehicle industry and the general manufacturing area since then. However, it is bail enough that it has increased it by 2i per cent in the present Budget. Did not the honourable member for Lilley, his Government, his colleagues, his cohorts, call them what we will, realise that an increase such as that which they imposed on the earlier occasion on the manufacturing industry in South Australia was going to have the repercussions that it did have? Of course the imposition had repercussions and because today in South Australia there is a government of a different political climate to the Commonwealth Government, the Government is up to its old tricks. However, it was not game enough to attack that industry to such aa extent as it did before. 
Let us consider what can happen to the wage and salary earners and to those who are more privileged because of this Government's actions. Has the Government ever given any consideration to Iiic shift worker who works in the automobile industry and who perhaps resides in an area where there is no public transport available and who has to use his own vehicle? This situation applies to a lot of newcomers to Australia who have been brought here to work in the automobile industry. Has the Government considered allowing such people a taxation concession for travelling similar to that which i.s allowed to the upper strata - to the boards of directors and the tall poppies who sit in big buildings in Melbourne? Of course they are allowed a taxation deduction for the car that is supplied by the company and which is sometimes chauffeur driven. But for the worker at the lower end of the line the Government does nothing, and does noi intend to do anything. 
The honourable member for Lilley has the hide to stand up here and talk about economic growth. I suggest that if he keeps talking like that, the halo that he thinks he has above his head may surround his neck.  His  values are completely astray and false. He says that the Government, by making certain grants to the States, is playing a magnificent role. Who does he think he is kidding? He is not kidding me, and I am not an economist. In some public departments in South Australia - and no doubt this is the same in every other State in the Commonwealth - for every $5m loaned by the Commonwealth Government it gets back almost an equivalent amount in interest charges. Is that right? So whom does the honourable member think he is fooling? I would like to quote from a publication that I have here. It states: 
In recent years there has been considerable trafficking in company losses. This has had the effect of enabling taxpayers to reduce their tax liability by transferring profitable businesses to companies which they have taken over with accumulated losses. Even the shareholding restriction on private companies is not effective, because the original shareholders in such companies can be allowed to retain shares with 25 per cent of the voting power after the takeover, or they can be required to give an option to the acquiring shareholders to enable the latter to purchase the shares with the 25 per cent of voting power within 7 years. 
No doubt honourable members on the Government side have seen this document before. I knew of its existence. Within if are quoted ways and means for the upper strata to evade thousands of millions of dollars in taxation each year. But someone in the lower income bracket who mis-states his income or small business people who dcr not pay provisional taxation because of unforeseen circumstances that may arise in business from time to time are really given the axe. What right of appeal do they have? They have some rights of appeal within the structure of the Taxation Branch. I have written to the Taxation Branch in Adelaide on behalf of some people merely seeking an extension of time to pay the moneys that they owed to it. I made a plea in the case of one small businessman who as a result pf an accident was completely and totally blinded. Was any humanitarian treatment accorded to this individual? Of course not. 
A member of the Country Party says that I ought to speak up because members of the Country Party cannot hear me. They did not have the courage yesterday to go out and let some of their constituents hear them in front of Parliament House. Members of the Country Party have been standing up in this chamber from time to time since I have been here bellowing, bleating, bawling, moaning, groaning and adopting all sorts of attitudes in an endeavour to have the farmer let off the hook in all fields of taxation, to have his telephone connected to a more modern type of exchange and all sorts of other things. 
I agree with the honourable member who preceded me in this debate tonight. This Government is not even prepared to glance at the matter of price control any more than it is prepared to look at profit control. During the Government's term of office the number of companies that control the welfare and the destiny of millions of people has fallen remarkably. The Minister for Immigration, who is sitting at the table, may be making, a rough note that the small businesses make up the number. But I am speaking in terms of big employers. What are they paying towards the development of this country by way of taxation compared with what the smaller people pay? This Government, by means of taxation and by manipulating certain funds, is denying benefits to aged people who have paid a tax all their working lives. They will not receive one penny from the Government unless they are almost destitute. Honourable members opposite can talk about the Government's means test as much as they like. They can moan and groan. In comparison with what the company director has at his fingertips on his retirement and the perks and the lurks he has, the battler has become almost destitute. Honourable members opposite should turn their minds to that matter instead of making stupid comparisons, as the honourable member for 
Lilley did tonight, between 1949 and 1970 and complaining about a previous Labor Government. Let me say, almost in conclusion, that during the term of office of the last Labor Government, when we were fighting a war, we did not have to go into the area of overseas finance to the extent that this Government has in peace time. Honourable members opposite will not deny that, nor can they do so. They ought not to be making comparisons between 1949 and 1970, because there can be no comparison, as I have endeavoured to point out. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, what stage have we reached? I want to speak onthe third reading of this Bill. Could you inform me where we stand at the moment? 
I was hopeful that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  would be in the chamber to hear me speak tonight in the adjournment debate, because I wish to deal with a question that has been raised tonight, in a rather fictitious fashion, by 2 Government supporters. 
I will deal with the honourable member for Boothby in a minute. I will deal with him first. 
The honourable member for Boothby- 
1 inquired of the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the National Service Act contains any provision for exemption on compassionate grounds of members of the community called up for national service. He told me that there was no such provision. On my return to South Australia I sent the Minister a telegram in regard to this matter. He replied by telegram, which 1 now have much pleasure in reading. It states: 
There is no provision whereby exemption from callup may be granted in the circumstances you have outlined. 
I will now explain the circumstances 1 outlined. They relate to a widow with 8 children whose husband died suddenly about 12 months ago.  Her  19-year-old lad was about to matriculate, but abandoned his education to serve as a counter jumper in a departmental store in Adelaide in order to supplement the family income. A second member of the family similarly cut short her education. Five children of the family are attending school and another child is due to commence in the coming school year. This Government has been so neglectful of the problems of the community that, it has made no provision whatsoever for a lad to be exempted on compassionate grounds. 
I turn now to another case, lt concerns a woman with 3 sons, 2 of whom have already served a 2-year stint in Vietnam. A minister of religion and a doctor have said that if her third son has also to serve it will most certainly be extremely detrimental to her health and could mean the loss of her life. Once again there was no ground on which this lad could opt out of service. The Minister will say that this lad must go to the courts with an overbearing attitude. I will have more to say about this matter in the House unless the Minister, on behalf of the Government, is prepared to look squarely in the face some of these human problems which confront the electorate. 
I invite any honourable member in this chamber tonight to put himself in the position I was in, in my 10 feet by 12 feet office with this widow who was asking me for advice on this matter. Was I to stand there, look out the window and say: 'Look, you will comply with what the Government says'. I suppose that I should have turned to the lad, from the point of view of this Government, and said: Look here, son; the penalties of the Crimes Act will be inflicted upon you unless you leave this office with the full knowledge that you will serve your time in Vietnam or anywhere else because a neglectful Government says this to you and this is what you must do'. That is as much as I will say on the matter at this time. 
Let me deal now with the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  An honourable member who is interjecting was sitting in the chamber a while ago eating a chocolate which was made by trade unionists, carted by trade unionists, sold by a trade unionist and apparently consumed by a renegade. 1 wish to say this to the honourable member for Angas: What does the Chamber of Manufactures do in South Australia if in fact a small manufacturer wishes to commence business there and he does not join that chamber? Supplies of raw materials such as steel and carpentry requirements are chopped ofl' completely from him. ls this not so? The profit of the chamber each year is $2m and for that they produce nothing and do nothing. They are a burden on the community. You support them. You whispered to your mate, the honourable member for Deakin, on this matter thi1 morning when you were sat down, and properly so, by  Mr Speaker.  Let me inform you that you have your values completely mixed up in regard to this question. You have the hide to stand here and try to- 
1 thank you for directing my attention to that fact,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The fact is that they have their values hopelessly mixed up and muddled. Here we have 2 men who purport to be responsible people and whom I would describe by saying that truculence is a characteristic of small people. They stand in this chamber and say that a kid who is told by an employer that he must join a union or else, must be considered to have a conscientious belief. These honourable members opposite say that we on this side of the House ought to support that young person. They say that we have not SUP:ported him. They try to draw a comparison and to say that if we are fair dinkum we on this side of the House ought to be taking a different attitude from the one that we take concerning conscientious objection on the part of those whom this Government wishes to send to be slaughtered with resultant sorrow to widows and mothers. Our troops ought not to be in Vietnam. Nor in my belief was there ever any defence strategy with respect to Vietnam. Anyone on the Government side who still continues to believe that there i* a need for us to be in Vietnam is somewhat foolish. He is not looking at the realities and he is not reading the signs around him in this country today and in the Asiatic region generally. I also wish to talk about- 
 Yes, the honourable member for Boothby. Where is he? He has left the chamber. Here is a man in business in South Australia whose firm has had no compunction in going to the waterfront and causing stevedoring operations to cease whilst it uses a ship, that ship's gear and its cargo, that does not belong to it and is not imported for it, for the purpose of making television advertisements. Yet the honourable member stands in this chamber and speaks against trade unions. He is always talking about Communists and labels the particular trade union that he used as a Communist dominated organisation. But when it suits his business purposes, the honourable member for Boothby permits the trade union to be used. That advertisement is still played on television in Adelaide under his firm's name. So much for their hypocrisy. It is sickening, is it not? 
As far as compulsory trade unionism is concerned, there is Government legislation on the books in this House which in fact says that in some industries if a person is not a member of an appropriate trade union that person does not work. It followed the Hursey judgment. Do Government supporters remember, or have they short memories? There is Government legislation. The honourable member may ask his colleague, the Minister tor Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who is not in the House at the moment. If the Minister knows enough about his Department, I am sure that he will confirm what I have said. 
General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has a closed shop agreement. Myers in Melbourne, I believe, has a closed shop agreement. Many such firms have. Is there anything wrong with that? A closed shop agreement operates in the medical fraternity. The honourable member for Deakin, I understand, is in a professional organisation. If he was not in it, he probably could not practice his profession. He has no compunction about that. Let him get up and test the principles of conscientious objection with his own organisation and within the realms in which he may move from time to time. The Government talks about loyalties and the question of conscience. What did the Government do to a former member of this House who dared stand in this House and seek an inquiry on a matter in which he thought justice had to be done. On his own conscience, mark you, he demanded that the Government make another inquiry into the 'Voyager' incident. What did the Government do to  Mr St  John. Where were the Liberal Party's fine, upstanding principles on individual rights on that occasion? They floated completely out of their convenient minds or their minds of convenience - put it which way you like. 
I inform members of the Liberal Party that it is no good their coming into this House after crawling around the corridors all day thinking how they can get these matters before the House on the motion for its adjournment, believing that their alley is good and that their halos above their heads are such that they have nothing to fear, when their own house is not in order. So far as the matter in South Australia is concerned,  Mr Corcoran,  the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, who was mentioned by the honourable member for Deakin did not, I am quite certain, put the matter in the terms in which it was put in this place tonight. He did not do this at all. Nor did the Minister referred to by the honourable member for Deakin put the matter in the exact terms in which the honourable member for Angus put it in this Chamber tonight. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the people who sit on the Government side have done nothing but use subterfuges for about 20 years to hoodwink the electors. They do not hoodwink the Opposition. That is most certain. If they want to continue in this vein and if they want to accept a challenge in this respect, as far as I personally am concerned in this matter or any matter, I will be only too happy to accommodate them. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration: Does his Department render financial assistance to the States to provide low cost housing for migrants brought to this country by the Department of Immigration? If not, will the Minister agree that there is a need for such housing and that Commonwealth financial aid would enable the States to provide more adequately for this and so benefit the community generally? Will the Minister agree to confer wilh the State Housing Ministers on this matter? 
I desire to support the amendment moved by the Opposition on this occasion. For the benefit of the House I shall read it out. It states: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by SIO as an instruction to the Government that a select committee of this House should be appointed to inquire into and report on the uses of nuclear power in relation to- 
the projected power needs of the Commonwealth; 
the comparative advantage derived from generating power in this way as against all other sources now being employed; 
the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment; 
administrative procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a station to ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; and 
the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere. 
There is a very good reason why such an amendment has been moved by the Opposition. It has been moved because of the fact that although the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who incidentally is still in the Committee, has indicated from time to time by way of answers to questions that there are some tons of documents which ought to be sifted and looked at, this Parliament has been denied the opportunity to look at any one, any portion or any sector of those documents whatsoever. In addition to this, questions that have been asked of the Minister in this Parliament have not been answered to the benefit of honourable members who have put those questions to the Minister. Rather has the Minister left the answering of questions until some date when he can inform a State government on some of the matters in some way or form by which an answer of a restrictive nature appears in the Press media. 
In addition, one of the questions that I posed to the Minister in this place some time ago was as to whether or not his Department or in fact the Government had concerned themselves in any way in the matter of what ought to be done in the national interest insofar as constitutional reform was concerned in the setting up of a nuclear power station. In 1959, such a committee met at some considerable cost to the Commonwealth. I must confess that at this point in time that meeting could be represented only as wasted expenditure. The committee laid down certain recommendations. The committee said: 
Accordingly, the committee has recommended that the Commonwealth Parliament should be  empowered by constitutional amendments to make laws with respect to: 
The manufacture of nuclear fuels and the generation of nuclear energy; and 
Ionising radiations. 
The fact is that the Minister according to the manner in which he answered my question on the day when I raised the question was not even aware of this document. lt appears to me that during the time when questions on this matter were asked of the Minister, he showed considerable favouritism towards Government members inasmuch as some days, almost weeks, after those questions were posed, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  placed a question on the notice paper and received an answer in an extremely short time. 
However, in the limited time at my disposal, [ wish  to deal with some  of the facts in relation to what happens in other countries relative to the matter of whether or not the public should be informed properly on what is happening regarding these plants. Ideally in a democracy information concerning the activities of Government and policy decisions should be open to all so that the people can know the changing nature of their rights and privileges as decided by their elected representatives, so that an informed and adequate public debate can take place on policy issues and so that checks and balances are available on the activities of governments. In a totalitarian system this of course is not the case. Decisions are made in secrecy by a small unrepresentative elite and freedom is curtailed or destroyed. This Government then is adopting the role of a totalitarian State in regard to what it has told the public on this issue. 
Only in the case of national security, important cases of the national interest, or where freedom of an individual's privacy are involved, should actions be taken in secrecy in a democratic society. 
As the  Speaker  of the House said at the International Parliamentary Union Symposium on Parliament and the Mass Media: In a democracy, governments should have no fear of the truth'. It is true that information has been revealed concerning nuclear power in Australia. So far however the Minister has not made a comprehensive statement or published a White Paper outlining in detail the plans and policies for Australia. Much of the early information was revealed in 'leaks' to the Press. For instance, Leonard Bickel wrote an article on 'Future without Atoms' in the 'Australian' of 19th April 1968. More recently  Sir Phillip  Baxter and others in public speeches have revealed some aspects of Australia's nuclear development. In addition the Minister for National Development in brief Press statements and speeches has revealed other aspects. 
Unfortunately the most detailed material to come forward has been in the form of technical papers which are both difficult for the layman to understand and difficult to obtain. Such papers of their nature cannot form the basis of public debate. An example here is the paper by K. F. Adler, Commissioner and Director of Research Establishment of the United States Atomic Energy Commission and W. J. Wright of the Nuclear Development Division of the United States AEC, which was presented to the Annual Conference of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy earlier this year. It was entitled 'The requirements for manufacture of nuclear fuel in Australia'. It is instructive to compare the availability of information for public debate in other countries. In the United States for instance the Congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy has overview of all aspects of nuclear power. A few examples of ils Hearings are: 'Prelicensing Antitrust Review of Nuclear Power Plants'- 696 pages 1969 and 1970; Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program' - 312 pages 1970; and 'Environmental Effects of Producing Electric Power', two volumes the first containing 1108 pages in 1969. With any major policy problem in the United States there will be comprehensive detailed reports from at least one government agency, a study by a 'think tank' organisation such as the Rand Corporation, as well as reports from advisory committees, Presidential Commissions and task forces. The relative merits and demerits can be argued in the media, in academic circles and in the forum of Congressional committees which enable the full talent of the nation to be publicly applied to the problems at band. 
The system regarding licencing of nuclear reactors in the United States is particularly interesting. It goes through a number of stages including: (1) A public evaluation study by the United States AEC known as the Safety Report; (2) a report from the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards - again in public; (3) public hearings before the grant of a construction permit: and (4) the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy of the Congress is available for an overall review. Also in the United States there is a Freedom of Information Act. This Act specifies that all information held in Government files will be open to public inspection with the exception of information relating to national security or the privacy of the individual. 
In Canada the scope for public debate is almost as wide. The Parliament has a comprehensive and wide ranging system of standing committees able to investigate all aspects of government. Numerous advisory bodies exist which publish regular reports on the advice they give. In addition the Government has used the mechanism of the royal commission to air major policy problems. Examples are the numerous reports of the Science Council of Canada. In addition, the Government does not always announce policy but attempts to allow for participation in policy making. For instance, the Senate Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce has recently been investigating a white paper entitled 'Proposals for Tax Reform'. Over the last 2 years the Canadian Senate Science Policy Committee as part of its terms of reference has looked into the question of nuclear power. 
In Great Britain the Government periodically publishes white papers outlining the background and logic of its policy proposals. For instance in 1967 it published a paper on Fuel Policy. Periodically, and prior to the start of its nuclear power programme, the British Government published white papers setting out its programme, the first being in 1955  -  Command paper No. 9389. A recent innovation is the institution of 'Green Papers' which set out tentative policy lines by the Government inviting criticism and comment before the policy is firmed. When British power stations are proposed there is an option for public hearings prior to construction. In 1967 the House of Commons Select Committee on Science and Technology published a report on the nuclear power industry. The German Bundestag has an Atomic Energy Committee. The Japanese Diet has a Special Committee on Development of 
Science and Technology. This committee has a sub-committee on nuclear power policy and another on exploitation of power reactors. The Netherlands Parliament has a Committee for Atomic Energy. Most parliaments have a comprehensive standing committee system within which one committee will have the authority to examine nuclear power legislation, or policy problems or administration. But not Australia! A person can pick up even some items concerning uranium enrichment in South Africa in a recent magazine. But one gets little information in one's own-country. 
I turn now to policy formulation. The United States AEC is in the position where it initiates proposals, gives advice on their acceptance, runs a nuclear power programme, sets radiation standards, monitors its own operations- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has he received an application from Ansett Airlines of Australia for recognition as an international airline because of its purchase recently of one or more private enterprise airlines registered in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea? 
Would the grant of such an application place Trans-Australia Airlines at a disadvantage as a domestic airline as compared with Ansett Airlines of Australia? 
Would Qantas Airways Ltd, a governmentowned and controlled airline, suffer financially if Ansett Airlines were permitted to compete with it on overseas nights; if so, to what extent? 
Would it be necessary for Australia, in order to enable Ansett Airlines of Australia to function as an overseas airline in competition with Qantas Airways Ltd and those international airlines which at present exercise landing rights in Australia, to re-negotiate existing international agreements to provide for an increase in' flights to end from Australia. 
In commencing my speech I must express my absolute disgust at the display of ridicule to which members of the Government subjected this debate during the course of yesterday evening. Had I intended to carry on in the manner in which the 3 Service Ministers were acting, I would probably have said that the whole Royal Australian Navy ought to be in Lake Burley Griffin with the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  overseeing operations white being kept aloft by the Captain Cook water jet. or something of that nature. However, we have heard a great deal in the debate which has been only riducule. If we are to deal properly with the matter of defence we ought to display a much more serious attitude than that which has been displayed to this point of time. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  typified the Government's attitude when he saw fit to quote something that was said by the late John Curtin in 1938. One could quote things that were said by  Sir Robert  Menzies in the early 1930s in praise of Hitler or one could make a comparison by saying that Chamberlain had an umbrella and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  had a bat, or something like this. What ought to be asked in this debate is: What are we getting for the tremendous amount of money that has been expended on defence over recent years? The Government, along with the British Government, is talking continually of the Indian Ocean because it is still mindful of what  Mr Freeth,  a previous Minister, said on 14th August last year. Government supporters attempt to intrude the matter of the Indian Ocean into debates on defence all the time. The Government in its thinking and in its expenditure of money has not realised the change of conditions which Australia faces from a defence point of view. 
Members from this side of the Parliament have been able to state what the attitude of Malaysia is today, whereas they could not have done so 3 months ago, because there has been a change of govenment in that country. If we want to continue to talk about defence weaponry and so on, in the manner in which we have been talking, we should realise that Australia is in no different position from many other smaller countries of the world - indeed we cannot measure ourselves as a great world power - and that our whole thinking on defence has to be completely changed. 
This leads me back to the matter of the Indian Ocean. What threat does Russia have for us in the Indian Ocean in anything other than a global war, and what possibility is there of a threat from Russia in the Indian Ocean if there is to be a conventional type of weaponry used, with a conventional type of ship? Other honourable members know as well as I do that if that type of engagement commences it will be only a prelude to a world wide conflict with all the nuclear arms and their horrors. Tn speaking of defence why should we not think in terms of perhaps having a look at the other side of the coin? We have reached the stage in the world today at which we can ill afford our present attitudes as people who populate this earth. Either we get away from the old thinking of national boundaries and what-have-you or we burn together. Has anyone on the Government side ever thought of this? Has any honourable member opposite ever thought of the fact that there is the equivalent of 10 million tons of TNT stored up in nuclear weapons for every man, woman and child on this earth today. One could go back to the Suez debacle in which a previous Prime Minister was involved. Of course, this resulted in a situation which members on the Government side have been critical of, or worried about, and which is now with us in the Middle East. The seeds of the situation in the Middle East today were not in fact sown by loss of arms on a battlefield but by the stupidity of diplomacy, if one could call it that, or by the stupidity of those who withdrew from the Aswan Dam project and let the Russians come in. I fully agree with what was said by the previous Opposition  speaker  on this subject. 
I refer now to the proposed sale of arms to South Africa and the stupidity of the British Government in proposing it, because the moment it does that it will force the other African States into an untenable position; they will be getting arms from the Eastern Bloc countries in the time it takes Ilyshun aircraft to fly from Russia down to Africa. Where is the sense in that? I suggest to honourable members opposite that they turn their minds, when considering matters of defence, to matters of survival. When honourable members opposite start talk of defence and the capability of the defence force that this country can supply itself with, they are conning themselves that it will defend them. They virtually leave themselves defenceless. 
 I desire to enter this debate on the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department. The Committee may recall that I directed a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  some few weeks ago following the disclosure that a pension had been granted to very extremely ex-Governors-General of this; country at a time when the Government had decided it would pay age pensioners practically nothing to compensate them for the increased cost of living that they have to bear when they are purchasing their meagre everyday needs. The Prime Minister on that occasion almost questioned one's right to ask a question of this nature. What prompted the Prime Minister to this line of thought is perhaps best known to himself. I only wish he were in the chamber tonight. He is not, and is not likely to be, apparently. But the fact is that the question was followed then by some criticism from a number of Ministers that such a question was asked. Why is this attitude adopted by the Prime Minister and others of his Cabinet? The fact is that the people of the Commonwealth and this Parliament have a right to know. I would like to know from the Prime Minister's Department - the estimates certainly do not reveal it - whether or not there are other recipients to whom sums of taxpayers' money are secretly handed out. The Prime Minister is the sole custodian of those funds and he is the only person who doles out these handouts to the affluent and the fortunate within the community. In addition to that, the Prime Minister's Department is responsible for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I would like to know, although 1 am not likely to be told and the House is not likely to be informed, why the Budget increases the proposed vote for this body by about 13 per cent, which is a greater percentage increase than was accorded to the social welfare sector of the community? 
The point I come to is this: While an age pensioner was away from his home, his wife was confronted by an officer of the security service or Commonwealth Police. 1 want to know, the House ought to want to know and the public ought to be informed why age pensioners or their spouses are called upon by representatives of the Security Organisation. 
Secret service - call the officers what you like. If this sort of thing happened in another country, the Prime Minister would stand up and condemn such action. But he does nothing about these occurrences, shabby as they are. This sort of incident has occurred on  2  occasions - one recently and the other probably a couple of years ago. The only possible conclusion that the people concerned could draw from the visit was that they had chosen to air their knowledge by writing to the newspapers or perhaps writing letters occasionally to members of Parliament This is a shocking state of affairs. The visit considerably upset the aged person to whom I referred. Before her husband arrived home she thought that he had been in some form of serious trouble. She was advised by the police to inform her husband that he ought to keep quiet and more or less behave himself. Having had this information conveyed to him, the Prime Minister ought to do something about the situation. He ought to act quickly. i suppose 1 am no more inquisitive than the average man, but I would like to know whether we are still paying - and whether it falls within the ambit of the Prime Minister's Department - for one of the greatest political farces of all time. I refer to the Petrovs and what flowed from the Petrov royal commission from which there were no prosecutions. I would like to know whether people concerned in this inquiry are still receiving money from the taxpayers today. Somewhere along the line probably the taxpayers are still footing the bill for the persons on this silent list. The House ought to be informed how many people are on the silent list. We ought to be told how many other Governors-General and what-have-you are on this list. We ought to be told who they are, what payments they are receiving and in what circumstances are they entitled to such payments. Is it the prerogative of the Prime Minister and his Department, perhaps after having a quiet whisper to someone or someone having a quiet whisper to the Prime Minister, to dole out taxpayers' money. 
The sums of money that were involved in the case of the 2 Governors-General who received some publicity were far in excess to what I consider they were entitled to in view of the salaries which they commanded during their term of office. I say this even though one of them perhaps had a political affiliation with this side of the House. This makes no difference to me. The fact is that he was paid and paid well for his job while he was in office. I will leave the question of how this man carried out his job to the thoughts of honourable members. I have my own. I was condemned because I dared to mention the fact that a field marshal had been a Governor-General. Why is it considered by some people that anyone who served his country and held the high rank of field marshal, general and so forth ought to be immune from anything but absolute praise? The gentleman to whom I referred is still in employment. But coming down to the grass roots, I say that this man ought not to be treated any differently from those who have paid taxes during the whole of their working lives and are denied by this Government the right to receive lc of that money in return during their retirement. This is why I raise this matter. Why is it so? When this Government ceases being so hypocritical and its supporters cease being hypocritical perhaps one may not question their motives in this regard. But honourable members opposite are certainly not being straightforward in what they do. As a result of the passage of most of the Bills debated in the Budget session, the Government certainly has involved itself in an expenditure that almost boggles the mind. Because of the system that prevails in this chamber, the Government does not have to face up to anything. Yet it sees fit to condemn workers' organisations and the like which could not possibly get away with such a system of accounting or anything else for that matter. I will end on this note- 
Now I might not conclude. The honourable member who interjected said : 'Thank goodness'. The attitude of the Party of which he is a member to the rural industries, which it represents, has been: Thank goodness. The rural industries have nothing to thank his Party for. I think that the expenditure of certain sums is perhaps necessary to bolster rural industries today because the people who were supposed to have accepted responsibility for what happened in those industries have done nothing about it. They have turned their heads. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Dmr)')  - Order! The Committee is not discussing the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. 
I shall come back to the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  is one of those people who keeps turning his head, as does the Prime Minister. I conclude on the note that the Prime Minister ought not to be able to give an answer to a question asked in this House, irrespective of what the subject matter may be, in the manner in which he answered the question to which I referred originally. If there is nothing to hide, why does he not tell us what the complete list is? The Prime Minister can call his watchdogs off the doorsteps of aged pensioners in the electorate which I represent. If it were not for the fact that one of the womenfolk concerned in the matter would have been upset if it had been taken further, most certainly something would have been done about it on an official basis. He most certainly can investigate my statement with a view to calling the policemen off the doorsteps of pensioners who dare to write a letter to a local newspaper occasionally. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Defence. As the Australian Government disagrees with the Malaysian Government's new attitude on the question of the admission of Communist China to the United Nations, what effect does this have on our relations with Malaysia and our concepts of forward defence in Malaysia? 
I desire to enter this debate and to accuse the Government of the most shabby treatment of the aged that has ever seen in this country. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  completely overlooks the problems of the aged in his own electorate. I demand that this Government, as a last possible step, endeavour in some way to show its sincerity and human feeling for almost a million aged people and introduce into this Parliament a Budget which will sustain the people who are reliant upon monetary handouts from this Government, however small that may be. I make my demand because of the hypocritical, mean and stupid manner in which the Government has gone about this Budget and has ignored the pleas of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who, if one can believe what one hears around the corridors, placed before the Government proposals much better than those which the Government adopted in respect of age pensioners. I do not know what sort of language one can use in this chamber, but if it were not so unparliamentary I know what sort of language would describe members of the Government and their lousy attitude towards pensioners generally. 
You are a liar,  Sir, and  I will withdraw that remark if I have to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (MrDrury) - I beg your pardon? 
I want to- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! 
MrMcLeay  -  I distinctly heard the honourable member for Sturt call the honourable member for Mallee a liar, whichI do not think he is. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Did the honourable member for Sturt use that word? 
-I called him a lair. lt may have sounded like 'a liar'. There is not a great deal of difference. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Did the honourable member for Sturt call the honourable member for Mallee a liar? 
No.I called him a lair because he implied that I had been doing things on this side of the chamber. That was untrue. However, if it would satisfy the Chair, and if the honourable member for Mallee thinks that he has been insulted I shall withdraw the remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order!I point out to the honourable member for Mallee that the honourable member for Sturt has already, at my request, withdrawn the expression. 
I should not have fallen into that and wasted my time on the honourable member for Mallee. What I want to say is that recently in Adelaide at a church forum the Reverend Irwin Vogt, who has the interests of the aged at heart, saw fit to criticise the Federal Government, and indeed some State governments, in regard to a very urgent matter. I demand that this Government pay some attention to the request of that reverend gentleman. 1 do not have sufficient time to read his speech, but I am most certainly prepared to layit on the table for all members of the Government to see, because it indicts them for their stupidity and lack of understanding of the problems of aged people in the community. I am prepared to lay it on the table along with certain recommendations that were put to a so-called responsible Minister in regard to what was required as an immediate need in the geriatrics area. However. I challenge the Government to introduce a supplementary Budget to overcome this pressing problem. 
Over the years this Government has introduced a number of measures on the understanding that they would benefit the aged but because of the Government's shortsightedness and its lack of understanding of the problems of the aged they have not received these benefits. The Government has ignored a number of reports that have been made in regard to the aged. In a Melbourne newspaper yesterday afternoon there was a report on a survey made by Professor Downing on this particular matter which Government members have probably read. The Government has had available to it reports on welfare programmes in countries comparable to Australia and what has happened in those countries. Honourable members opposite have only to go across the Tasman Sea to get literature on the New Zealand system of social welfare and after a glimpse at those documents they will see the shocking inequalities that they render unto the people of Australia. Government members are completely devoid of any understanding of the problems of the aged. If they are not devoid of this understanding then all I can say is that they ought to be condemned more than they are at the moment in this regard. 
The Government must realise the high proportion of the population which falls within this group. More people are entering this group each day but they enter this welfare sector realising that they are joining the ranks of the poverty stricken. We bear much of what this Government has done in the field of homes for aged persons, but what action has it taken? Under this legislation Aged Cottage Homes Incorporated in South Australia has built homes for hundreds of people in one small area, and in this area there is no infirmary, no qualified nursing sister and no other amenities at all. These organisations were, of course, given a subsidy by the Government which they used to the full. This company took from the occupants of these homes what an aged person would regard as large sums of money. $2,000 or more, under an agreement which the company has not honoured. This is not justice. The agreements contained provisions that would give the aged people a life tenancy on these houses and yet this company in Adelaide, which is in my electorate, has served eviction notices on these people. This action is an absolute and utter disgrace. What can be done by this Commonwealth Government in regard to this matter of serious concern? The Government can do absolutely nothing because it did not have the good sense and foresight to retain and maintain a controlling interest in these aged persons' homes. 
I received a letter this morning from one of these aged women in Adelaide who pointed out that old ladies have been found dead in their flats. I can produce this letter now. There are no facilities whatsoever in these places. These people have had increased costs foisted upon them in spite of the fact that they signed documents which can only be regarded as legal documents. These people have been treated in the most shabby and shocking manner imaginable. 1 have even heard of cases where people have gone to make payments to this company and received receipts written on the backs of envelopes. Is this any way to treat the aged? Does the Government pay any regard to organisations which it recognises as being bona fide organisations and which in fact have the interests of the aged at heart? Surely we are not arriving at the stage in this country where, because of their social service payments, the aged will be exploited and become big business as we see happening in America today? This is where we are heading unless this Government takes stock of itself. 
I will leave that point for a moment because 1 want to deal with another urgent problem. What does this Government intend to do between now and Christmas for this sector of the community? In the last 24 hours we have seen a report of a cost of living increase in almost every State in Australia. On almost every other page of our newspapers we see statements by people in the community who are concerned about the problem of the aged in the field of housing and these people say that these things should be looked at. We heard in this chamber today the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  answer a question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I must confess that I think that answer means that nothing will be done to relieve the problem of medical care for the aged. We have the situation in South Australia where there is a lack of accommodation for these people, but, in addition to that, even where there is accommodation high costs are being inflicted on the organisations that have some real desire to help the aged. These costs are rising out of all proportion to the pension rate and yet the Minister had the hide today to talk about intensive care for the aged. Tt is all very well for him to talk about intensive care. What he ought to have been saying to this House if he was honest is that there are medical officers in South Australia who walk into these aged persons' homes unannounced and unheralded, and if they see a person who is normally bed-ridden lifted perhaps momentarily from his bed, away goes the intensive care subsidy, ls that any way to treat aged persons in this day and age, to spy on them? ft is an absolute disgrace and is an indictment of this Government. In conclusion I challenge the honesty, courage and integrity of honourable members opposite and I challenge them to rise in their places during the course of this debate and answer some of the questions asked about the problems of the aged in this community, ft is no good talking about soldiers on national service. What the honourable member for Boothby ought to be saying is that some of our soldiers who have become old are now living in poverty on a pittance. There are many who have not qualified for a pension under the Repatriation Act. The Repatriation Department has one of the worst, if not the worst, record of any department in the Commonwealth. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  ~-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 want again to take up the matter of the Government's neglect of this very vital and unfortunate area of the community. Who will care for the sick and the aged in view of the fact that the Government expresses so little concern? The plight of the sick aged in our community is of crisis dimensions. The simple fact is that there are insufficient beds for nursing care available for those whose only income is the pension.  Mrs Polkinghorne,  who conducts a telephone bed service for sick aged in Adelaide, said the other day that in one half day she had 8 calls on behalf of sick aged pensioners and was unable to find a placement for any one of them. Whilst the numbers are not known, we have good reason to believe that there are lots of people in this category occupying beds in the Royal Adelaide Hospital who should be discharged to long-stay infirmary care, but the almoners are unable to find placements for them. This is only an example and no doubt it applies widely to public and community hospitals. It costs $200 a week to keep each one of them in the Royal Adelaide Hospital. There is also the anxiety and insecurity which these people, experience while they are there because they know the pressures that are on them to leave. 
There are some things the Government could do right away to ease this situation. The Morris Hospital has empty wards which could be made available for the sick aged. The excuse that staff is not available is not valid. There is no reason why the rosters and disciplines of the Morris Hospital wards could not provide the flexibility in working hours which would attract married nurses, lt is an open secret that some  chronically sick aged people are certified for admission into the Glenside Psychiatric Hospital simply because no alternative accommodation can be found. If this is not a disgraceful affair, if this does not stir honourable members opposite, then all I have to say is that they are content to see people reduced to a psychiatric state because they have to go into these hospitals regardless of whether they suffer from mental illness. It must be a great reward to honourable members opposite to think that they sat through sessions within their Cabinet and within their Party room to have done absolutely nothing about this very pressing problem. The increase in pensions of 50c a week means nothing. This is a long existing situation in South Australia, and of course it must prevail in other States. We must decide whether adequate care and nursing facilities are available to sick aged pensioners. 
Finance is a factor in all of this, or if you like, the ability to pay. There are approximately 43,000 aged people in voluntary private and State nursing homes across Australia, and about 32,150 of this number are pensioners. This does not account for those who cannot get care. An anomaly in our hospital benefits funds is that for the most part these people do not qualify for benefits at the point of their greatest need. We find that most people believe that paying into hospital benefit schemes will cover them in nursing homes. This is rarely so. Voluntary and some private enterprise nursing homes undertake the care of pensioners on the basis of what they are able to pay. We know too that there are private nursing homes which will accommodate the sick aged only until their money runs out. Well, I guess the alternative for them would be bankruptcy. But the nation's concern must be with the humanities in all of this. Recently a matron of a private nursing home motored a patient back home because no cheaper alternative accommodation could be found. The anxiety and tension which many families endure over this situation must contribute in no small measure to the nation's health problem. This, I do not suppose, will stir honourable members opposite either 
New awards being gazetted this year could close voluntary organisations providing nursing care unless substantial assistance is forthcoming swiftly from either State or Federal sources. Of course, we all know in this chamber that the cry from the Government is that this is a State problem. However, the fact is that the Commonwealth is the principal collector of taxation. It holds the purse strings and it is time that it showed sufficient principle by untying the purse strings for the benefit of the aged in the community. It is established that it is Government policy to encourage and support voluntary agencies in the field of aged care, and it can be reasonably anticipated that this new crisis in rising costs will receive realistic Government attention. We hope that that does, in fact, occur. Immediate financial assistance is imperative if voluntary agencies who major on nursing care for pensioners are to remain open. This cannot wait for another Budget. Governments expect to meet crisis situations from time to time. Bushfire relief and drought relief are usually met by swift decisions. An immediate $5ra may well match this Australia-wide crisis, and such a grant would win wide public support. 
We should note that the present pension rate has not in any way increased the ability of the pensioner to meet increased charges for care. The 50c a week increase in the present Budget is an insult to pensioners and an affront to the public conscience. A 50c increase gives no additional purchasing power to the recipient. The present rate of pension represents only 35 per cent of the minimum basic wage in this country. The decision makers of Australia would not be prepared to live on the basic wage, much less on 35 per cent of it. Add to the pension the supplementary payments for which some pensioners qualify and the result is much the same. 
It is time this nation stopped treating out aged people as third-class citizens. Pensions should not be a disposable pawn in any Budget. Justice must be done, and it is high time this nation said to Canberra that the rate of pension should always allow our senior citizens to live without anxiety. The rate of pension should always match the inflationary spiral of new costs. We can only conclude that in the current Budget the welfare voices in the Cabinet were not heard. I made reference to this earlier in the debate. The official line is that there will be a new deal for pensioners next year. What the nation can afford next year it can afford this year. The character of a nation will always be determined by what it does for the homeless, the aged and the sick. 
J would now like to refer to nursing home fees. A statement in the 'Advertiser' on 30th July 1970 gave the impression that pensioners are being accommodated in a majority of nursing homes at a fee of around $35 a week, towards which the Commonwealth Government pays $14 a week and the pensioner $17 a week. On 22nd July 1970 the social workers conducted a survey of nursing homes and found that there were 39 beds available in the following price ranges: S30-$39 - 1 bed: $40-549- 1.1 beds: S50-S59- 20 beds; S60-S69- I bed; and $70-579-6 beds. Some of the dearer beds would have been eligible for a Commonwealth subsidy of S3 5 per week. However, it can be readily seen that in all. cases the pensioner will need extra finance from some other source to meet the weekly fee. Most of what I have said during the course of my contribution has come from a sermon which was preached by the Revend Erwin Vogt in the Maughan Church in Adelaide on 4th October. Most of what I have said came from the lips of that gentleman who is vitally concerned, as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is at the table knows, wilh the increased cost factor confronting homes that care for and are concerned with the problems of the aged, the sick and the ailing. This gentleman is concerned that these people should not be left alone in homes be they homes provided by Commonwealth subsidy or others because they have reached the stage in life where they can no longer care for themselves. They have reached the stage in life where in fact the Meals on Wheels organisation can be of little assistance to them because of the fact that they need more intensive care than a knock at the door and a meal placed on the table. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that these people are looked after. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who has left the chamber, during the course of his speech this afternoon talked about what should happen on State government levels.  His  remarks were removed from the matters which should have concerned him in a debate of this nature. The honourable member saw fit to ridicule the move made by  Mr Scott  in Melbourne, which the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  dealt wilh, by saying that it was almost a subterfuge. He even cast some doubts on the character of some people who are representatives of the various pensioner organisations. 
If honourable members on the opposite side of the House, who claim to be the government for the people and by the people, have any courage, any thinking or any conscience they will get up off their backsides and do what should be done. They should recognise their mistakes and correct them by introducing into this Parliament not later than next week a Budget which will at least go some way towards alleviating a very real social problem within our community. We will all get old, whether we are members of this House, spectators or what have you. We should not have to pay taxes for years in what is described as one of the richest countries in the world where people can fleece the public on bodgie share deals and so forth. The Government allows that to happen and then does not correct its mistakes in the social welfare side of the Budget. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I was hoping that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  would not leave the chamber because I was going to raise a matter which concerns him. I also want to say that I am delighted to see so many Ministers in the chamber during the adjournment debate tonight. I hoped that the Prime Minister would be in attendance last night when at least part of the estimates were being discussed because he has been conspicuous by his absence during most of the discussions. I raised a matter concerning his 
Department and seeing he is in the chamber tonight, rather than dropping him a little note and waiting some weeks or months for a reply, I thought he might be good enough to stay and hear what I had to say. This matter refers to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation - the Commonwealth secret service - which is administered by his Department. 
J said last night that officers of that organisation had called upon aged pensioners in South Australia and by their very presence had intimidated aged people, in particular the wife of a pensioner who was absent from his home at the time. They waited for some considerable time for the husband to return and finally left after warning his wife that she had best advise her husband to be careful what he had to say in future and not to write so many letters. Upon his return, the husband found his wife considerably upset. Having committed no great crime in his life, he could only deduce that the - I almost said wallopers', but perhaps I should not use that term - police had been there because on occasion he had found it necessary to direct letters to parliamentarians which, in the main, remained unanswered. From time to time he bad directed correspondence to Ministers andletters to editors which bad appeared in the columns of various newspapers from time to time. I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister would investigate these allegations. 
On a previous occasion ( related a similar event concerning yet another pensioner. That was some considerable time back, I understand. I feel that the situation is an untenable one - a word which the Prime Minister used a while ago when replying to what the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  had said in an earlier debate. The Prime Minister should investigate this type of activity by people who hide behind a cloak of secrecy. If the Commonwealth requires them for security reasons, they most certainly are being misplaced when they knock on the doors of aged pensioners who are not offending in any shape or form. 
I shall take further advantage of the Prime Minister's presence in the House tonight. A matter was brought to his notice by way of a question. He replied to that question. It deals with twins being called up for national service. I have written lo the Minister for Labor and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  requesting exemption on compassionate grounds for the son of a widow who has 8 children, 5 of whom are attending school and the sixth is due to commence school next year. The young man who has been called up cut short his education on the sudden death of his father. He is working in a department store in Adelaide. The Minister replied that there is no provision for exemption on compassionate grounds, other than for the lad to appear before the court. 1 think this is yet another case of the stupidity and the non-thinking of the Government. 1 have yet another case to mention. It is of a deserted wife who has 3 sons, 2 of whom have served already in Vietnam. The third son is about to be called up. Once again the Minister for Labour and National Service said that there was no provision for exemption and that the young man could go to court. Surely this state of affairs should not be allowed to continue. I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister - as he assured a member in the House the day before yesterday, I think it was - would investigate this matter also. 
I want to raise a matter concerning the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I notice that he is not present. In the chamber this afternoon, during the debate on the social services legislation, he mentioned certain matters about South Australia. He insisted that certain Labor members of the State House, because of the late shopping referendum held recently, ought to vote in the House of Assembly in South Australia in accordance with the manner in which the vote was cast in their electorate, which returned a 'yes' vote. 1 point out to the honourable member, who now strides somewhat slowly into the chamber, that if he thinks that ought to apply so far as the Labor-held areas are concerned he should tell Liberal members such as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Millhouse,  from Mitcham,  Dr Tonkin  who holds Bragg and  Mrs Steele  who holds Davenport to vote as their electorates voted on the day of the referendum. If he does he will find he is not on very good ground. I will mention another Liberal member - the man who won the seat of Hanson,  Mr Becker.  That is what the honourable member should do, instead of coming into this chamber and making the statements that he makes. 
The Prime Minister has not been in the chamber very long while the Estimates have been debated, so he might as well go. But before he goes, I have another matter to raise. During the course of his reply to the honourable member for Newcastle, the Prime Minister stated that there was a certain ban on radio and television programmes prior to an election being held in the Commonwealth or in one of the States. But it should not have applied on this occasion. It applied on one occasion to my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  when he was completely banned from the 'Big Country' show because an election was being held in Victoria. I am sure that the honourable member for Riverina on that occasion did not intend to campaign in the State elections in Victoria. 
That is right, he would not have been political. Let me come back to the honourable member for Boothby. 
I know he is. I implore him to pay attention to those people in his electorate who, I understand, have visited his office from time to time, have written letters to him from time to time and are disgusted because he will not pay attention to their needs as far as social welfare is concerned. Of course, I am copping the work from his electorate. I cannot knock them back. Having come up through the university of hardship, they have problems and they ought to be listened to by somebody. If the honourable member wants to repent to the electorate and wants the file from my office concerning people from his electorate- 
-. . . and from the electorate of Adelaide, he can most certainly have it, provided he gives me a personal assurance that he will do all he possibly can on their behalf. I tell the honourable member that he would have to get on his  knees  to do it because he is certainly passing them over at the moment. I end on this note: If the honourable member, along with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who should never have left the South Australian Legislative Council - I believe that he often thinks he is still therecontinues to blab about State matters and closed shop agreements, he should look at some of the closed shop agreements in the shipping service. 
He had a carpet put down and took unfair advantage of his position when he was in the Unley City Council. He talked about local government during the social services debate this afternoon. He had a carpet put down. The carpet supplier was well paid for it. He took unfair advantage of his position whilst he was on the Unley City Council. I suppose he does not like to hear that sort of thing, but it is a fact. The honourable member criticises so often and so frequently the trade union movement - he may not have got the message a couple of weeks ago - but it is about time he withdrew the television advertisement on behalf of his firm in Adelaide. He used the trade union movement to make that film at the cost of the poor old ship owners, not that I hold any brief for them. 
I conclude by saying that if the honourable member for Boothby wants that file from my office - it is getting a bit hefty - he can come and get it if he gives me an assurance that he will work on behalf of his electors instead of dragging stupid flags into this place and making an idiot of himself. I do not want to send him a telegram to come and get it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners as In duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 preface my remarks in this debate by saying that on a previous occasion during the first sessional period of this Parliament, in a debate on the wool industry, I spent some time talking about what was occurring in the transport field, mainly in shipping. On that occasion I said - I see no reason why I should not repeat it - that shipowners commenced operations in this country some hundreds of years ago as virtually pirates and that they remained pirates against the woolgrowers and the people generally. I say that the Government of the day in 1963, in accepting recommendations from  Sir Alan  Westerman, has tied itself to a system which is costly and, in many respects, unnecessary. 
Before proceeding further with that matter, in view of the fact that we have the report of the Australian National Line before  us  at the moment - it has been the subject of many of the contributions in the debate - .1 want to say that the ANL has more than its share of difficulties in the shipping industry because agency fees have gone up from practically nothing in the last financial year to in excess of 334-m. I merely mention that figure to indicate the effect upon the ANL because it do:s not have its own agencies and stevedoring companies in the various ports, and as  a  result is at the mercy of the pirates, the stevedoring companies and the establishments within the industry. Because of the statement that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  made in this place yesterday, I want to quote briefly from the annual report of the Australian National Line, lt states: 
Before leaving the subject of the overseas Liner' trades, the Commission, the Management and I record our appreciation of the co-operation given to us by the Maritime Union.'), in our  efforts  to establish an Australian, foreign-going merchant marine. As I have inferred, in the Japanese trade particularly, the maintenance of a fast lime-table service is our only real weapon in  the  struggle for survival, and if that weapon becomes blunted through the Australian flag ships being held up, the end will be in sight, and as far as I recollect, for largely the same reasons as brought the Commonwealth Line to the ground 40 years ago. 
Yesterday the Minister for Labour and National Service said something about the 35-hour week, but that did not concern me so much. What the Minister conveyed to the House yesterday is that he had sabotaged an agreement that was about to be put into effect which would have greatly assisted the Australian National Line by intervening. In the dying stages of the last sessional period the Minister for Labour and National Service put before the Parliament a proposal to continue the stevedoring industry conferences. In his second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill he stated: 
As I have said, there is a need now to plan for the permanent arrangements which will operate ultimately in the industry. Although the vast majority of waterside workers are not employed permanently, the fact remains that in a large number of small ports 20 per cent are still casually employed and there is a need for schemes for regular employment to be devised for them. The Governments policy in relation to the stevedoring industry is that there should be a continuing effort to make the employment relationships in the industry as near as possible to those in industry generally. This can be done only if there is co-operation from all parties in the industry. The obvious body to undertake the necessary investigations and to advise me on the future of the industry is the National Stevedoring Industry Conference. Furthermore, whatever the final structure of the industry, I believe it to be essential . . . 
He bombed that second reading speech in this chamber yesterday. Let me deal with the concept of containerisation shipping. There is no need to containerise wool, as I have said in this place before. There has been a reference in this place in the last few days to a closed shop agreement with the unions. The managing director of Freeland of the United States, the biggest container ship operator in the world, with 46 vessels at the end of 1969, called for a world-wide conference of container ship operators and owners to be formed in order to prevent competition and to set freight rates. He obviously sees overtonnaging of trade routes by container shipping and, as is already true of the Atlantic, he sees a need for a closed shop for their protection. In the latter half of 1969 8 container ship operators announced plans to form a container operators trader conference for the North Atlantic trade. The line for American export is the Brandeis Line and there are many others. The fact is that the closed shipping agreement is operating today so far as containerised vessels are concerned to the extent that the country is being held to ransom. The Australian wool grower is the person who is suffering today. He ought to be receiving a greater return for his product. But this is not the case because of the puritanical way in which he is dealt with by the ship owners under the freight system. One would have thought that the Australian National Line by buying into the overseas trade would have been in a better position to bargain to have a greater voice in regard to the amount of money that was expended by the Government at that time. This has not been so and the situation is deplorable. Wool growers are now more than concerned about this matter. 
I am very pleased to see this subject being debated and that some honourable members opposite now at last see the error of the ways of earlier governments. At least some wool growers have been prodded into some sort of action. The following report was printed in the 'Australian': 
The Australian Wool Board will carry out major studies on contract shipping services for wool using chartered ships. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, told a Press conference in Canberra yesterday that the wool industry was not able to continue to carry the burden of high overseas freight rates. 

 Sir William Gunn went on to say: 
When containers were first introduced we were told that freight rates would not increase but this does not seem to be the case now. You will recall that the original concept of containerisation was in fact that there would be no charge for feeder services. 
I want to come back to the Australian National Line. Australian National Line vessels will be going into ports around the Australian coast. They will possibly go into the port of Adelaide. A few weeks ago I checked on the situation at this port. The position is that ANL vessels will be ' prevented from feeding their own vessels which are on the overseas line and are out of the ports of Melbourne or Sydney. This is because of the consortia arrangement of road and rail transport. In other words, ANL ships will come from the eastern States ports into Adelaide with cargo and there is every possibility that they will go back to the eastern States empty and will not be permitted under the consortia agreement to backload from Adelaide into Melbourne and possibly Sydney containerised cargo which is destined for overseas trade on their own vessels. This is a shocking state of affairs. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this. 
The fact is that the British shipping interests have always enjoyed special advantages from the United Kingdom Government because shipping has always been a major earner from invisible exports. The money which comes into Britain for freights and maritime insurance in foreign currency is a real inducement to government assistance. Defence has also been a strong motive force in shipping. A recent British committee under the chairmanship of Lord Rothdale which inquired into shipping listed the effect on the balance of payments of the invisible export, shipping, as one of the main considerations. Therefore here is another aspect in which some breakthrough has to be made. The type of treatment that we have been subjected to almost since the colony started to produce agricultural products for export has led us to a situation which because of the passage of time, it is very difficult to break. However, surely the problem is not insurmountable. Much larger container ships will operate in the future. I believe that there is some hope provided the grower organisations - the Australian Wool Board is quite happy - show sufficient courage and initiative in an endeavour to break through those problems. They can use bulk ships, of course, as one manner of loading wool. There is no necessity to containerise wool. The cost of shifting containers from 1 point to another has risen considerably and at the moment it stands at about $29 a time. Why should the wool grower have to bear this cost when there is no necessity to package his article and put it in a container as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  indicated a short time ago. 
I regret that my speech is limited to 10 minutes - as I have regretted this on other occasions - because I would like further time in which to talk about this very important and most serious question. I should have liked to have elaborated it further. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earn.ings for ali States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker. I rise to enter this debate because of the speech which has just been made by the honourable member for Cowper- 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I desire to enter this debate briefly. I am not opposing what is proposed. I merely want to draw attention to the fact that the construction of a similar Commonwealth office block in Adelaide has been the subject of discussion and has been raised over the years by South Australian governments of different political complexion, but as yet we do not know of anything being done regarding this matter. Of course, the Commonwealth must be paying what would be regarded as high and exorbitant rents for buildings and office space generally in Adelaide. The Commonwealth offices in which the various departments are housed are somewhat more concentrated now than ':hey used to be a few years ago. 
 I think the honourable member is a bit rough when he wants to have a go all the time and I will tell him so too. I will be very brief in my remarks. I think that I ought to command some respect in this place. I will not take up a great deal of the time of the House. However, if the honourable member for Angas wants to carry on in his childish and foolish manner T think that the attention of the Chair should be drawn to his conduct. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 1 suggest to the honourable member that he get on to the subject matter before the House. I also suggest to the honourable member that his remarks are a little bit outside the terms of the motion now before the House. 1 further suggest that the honourable member be very brief in his remarks. 
I did intend to crave your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is unfortunate that some of my time has been taken up by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  seeking to raise a point of order. All 1 want to say about this matter is this: This Government should give consideration to the construction of a Commonwealth office block in Adelaide similar to that which will be built in Hobart. There is a crying need for such an office block to be erected in South Australia. The construction of a Commonwealth office block in Adelaide should be gone into thoroughly by the responsible committee and the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  Over the years it has been said that an office block in Adelaide would result in considerable saving to the Commonwealth. The offices used by the Commonwealth in Adelaide are scattered all over the city and this involves tremendous rental charges. 
During the course of this debate, which has been constructive and which has revealed some support for the Bill - with some reservations - the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has seen fit to attack the Australian Labor Party. If he wants to poke his neck out I will take him on. We stand in this House on the most expensive carpet in the country, from Cairns to Carnarvon, but it does not contain one thread of Australian wool.  Mr Speaker,  I wonder whether the wig you wear contains wool. If it does, I wonder whether it is Australian wool. 1 say that respectfully. The chiefs from the Australian Country Party stood here tonight and said the Australian Labor Party was jumping on the wool industry band wagon. Honourable members opposite are the guilty parties in creating the situation that we have in the industry today. Only two Liberal members have spoken in this chamber tonight, and one of them did not agree with the Bill at all. 1 did not hear the other Liberal member's contribution. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was cross about the fact that the Country Party maintained an attitude within the Government ranks that its members should be the only members to speak on rural matters. The Liberal Party has a stake in the rural industry and must take some responsibility for it. But it is obvious from its attitude tonight that it leaves the running to the Country Party. It is a shocking state of affairs when a vital industry such as rural industry, particularly the wool sector, has to come down to absolute rock bottom and we have to witness absolute poverty in the countryside before this Government is prepared to do something. Has it acted merely because there is a Senate election within the next few weeks? I recall that in the last session of the Parliament we were debating a wool measure involving a sum of $28m or $30m in the dying hours of the sitting. 
J am not confident that the Bill will mean a return for the person who matters, that is, the grower - not New Zealand Loan Ltd and all those other burglars and brokers who are protected by this Bill. It is only assumption on the Government's part, and perhaps to some extent on the part of some of the speakers on this side of the House, that the measures that are contained within the Bill will cure the ills within the industry. Many a commission has been set up by this and other governments for the purpose of curing ills in industry but they have not had the desired result. There is nothing in the Bill that spells out to the wool grower that he will receive at least a fair return for his labours in producing the product. There is absolutely nothing in the Bill that pays any attention to the tremendous gap that exists between the grower and the consumer. The housewives in this country will determine how much wool is worn and how much wool is purchased. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  is interjecting. He represents in this chamber wool growers who sell wool at from 16c to 20c per lb but the housewife, when she buys an article made from wool, pays $16 for it. If the Minister is going to sit in this place and say there should not be a fair return to the grower he needs his head read. He should not be sitting here claiming to represent people. I have been in this chamber only since last March, one might say, and not one week, almost not one day, has gone by when there has not been a doleful, dreary speech by Doug Anthony in respect of some matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, I desire to move for the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent me moving the following motion: 
That the House take note of the time - it now being approximately 4.33 a.m. - and that the House is of opinion that the House is incapable of serious, reasonable or responsible debate and that the House adjourn for approximately 6 hours and resume at 10.30 a.m. today. 

<graphic href="070131197010280_132_3_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070131197010280_132_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister foi Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have any shipments of wheat to overseas countries been rejected over the last 12 months because of infestation. 
If so, what are the details of those shipments, including the tonnage, value and grade of wheat rejected, the precise reasons for rejection and the countries which refused the shipments. 
What action is taken by export authorities regarding pest infestation and the possibility of damage to health as a result of it, including the action taken to ensure that the carrying vessels are clean. 
This evening I want to raise a matter concerning the Prime Minister's office. Unfortunately the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is not in the chamber. He was here during the course of the day, and last night he made a brief visit to make a ministerial statement. The matter I raise concerns the availability to citizens of Australia, particularly elderly citizens, of means of communicating with members of the Parliament - on this occasion no other than the Prime Minister 1 have not met the elderly person concerned in this incident. My information has been obtained from the South Australian Premiers Department. A letter from the South Australian Premier was directed to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is now sitting at the Table. It concerned social service benefits. However the elderly gentleman saw fit to address a letter to the Prime Minister. He correctly addressed it: 'The Right Honourable  Mr John  Gorton, Prime Minister of Australia, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600'. To ensure that it was delivered and that the Prime Minister received it he registered this article of mail. No doubt if postal workers had been on strike at. that particular time we would have heard the Prime Minister, some of his ministers and members of the Government Parties criticising them, but there was no such occurrence to delay the delivery of this piece of mail, lt arrived in Canberra. 
The letter carries about a dozen franking marks, 2 if not 3 of which are the Parliamentary Post Office franking mark, lt indicates also that the Prime Minister's office was made aware by the Parliamentary Post Office in this building on, I think, 30th November, 15th December and 1 7th December that the letter was here. On Monday last I broke my spectacles and it may be that those dates are not quite correct. However, nobody seems to know the Prime Minister - at least for the purpose of collecting this piece of correspondence. I would be interested later if the Minister for Social Services would inform me whether he received correspondence in his Department about this elderly gentleman's problem. 
My main reason for rising is to criticise the fact that although a member of the public - in this particular case an elderly person - has taken the opportunity of writing to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's office has not had the decency, honesty or respect to acquire that letter from the Post Office. It lay in this place for about 2 months and was then returned to the elderly gentleman. It had not been opened by the Prime Minister's office. Although the letter appears as though it could have been opened I doubt whether it has been because the card accompanying the returned letter indicates that it had not been accepted. 1 am prepared to hand this letter to the Prime Minister's staff tomorrow morning if they are prepared to treat this matter as the citizen intended it should be treated when he posted the letter. In the meantime I will hold the letter in the interests of the person who wrote it. I assure the Prime Minister and anyone on his staff that there is nothing dangerous in it. I am sure that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation will not be looking over his shoulder if the Prime Minister signs a document authorising the release of the letter to his office so that it can be properly and adequately dealt with. He can rest assured that if he puts his signature to a document to acquire that letter that document will not be misused, misrepresented, or misquoted. 
The crux of the matter is that the Prime Minister or his staff ought not adopt the attitude which they adopted in this case. I know that from time to time the Prime Minister would receive some correspondence that he did not want to receive. However, that goes along with the responsibilities of his office. The Prime Minister, of course, should not be suspicious of the fact that there is a registered letter for him in the parliamentary Post Office. He ought not to brush it off so lightly. 
Apparently the Prime Minister of the country is not known. So far as this gentleman is concerned he is non-existent. No doubt as a result of the treatment that has been accorded to this person he does not want to know the Prime Minister anyway. 1 am concerned that the Prime Minister's Department or the Prime Minister's office will accept this letter on behalf of a citizen of the Commonwealth and will pay some attention to its contents. I hope to goodness that in future there is never another case such as this one drawn to my attention to show that the Prime Minister's office or Department has dealt with a person in this manner. 
, who has just resumed his seat, apparently was not capable of reading from copious notes or even of going the full distance of a most limited time of 15 minutes. However, I am not going to waste much time on what he had to say in his criticism of what happens on this side of the House. What I want to do is remind inefficient people - parliamentarians such as himself - who see fit continually to support and jack up the false promises of their leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  that along with the Young Liberal contingent we had a visit to this national capital this week by the once leader of the Liberal Government in South Australia, now the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Steele  Hall. He came into this chamber somewhat briefly, cast a glance along the front benches, went a mile up the road and addressed the Young Liberal gathering and said that if he were in office again or if he were to be elected to this Federal House he would suggest that Cabinet ought to be drawn from the public. No doubt he, though not a very clever person, was able to deduce that there was not much talent on the front bench and that we ought to rely on the outside public to provide Cabinet members. 
The motion before the House is one of no confidence in the Government, lt is about time that this House carried a vote of no confidence in the Government because there was a vote of no confidence carried by the people in Australia at the last 
Senate elections. More recently a vote of no confidence in this Government was carried in the New South Wales elections last Saturday. There will be a vote of no confidence in it carried by the people of Western Australia next Saturday, lt is about time that we joined the band and carried a motion of no confidence in the Government. What has the anti-Labor coalition achieved since it has been in office since 1949? The honourable member for Isaacs who is now leaving the chamber made some reference to what ihe late Benjamin Chifley had to say about a number of matters when he was Treasurer. The honourable member completely omitted to mention the. plan that the late Ben Chifley had for the nationalisation of banks. Portion of that plan has been accepted by the present Government, but with one important difference, ft has allowed fringe banking, which is largely owned by the existing socalled free enterprise banks, to reign supreme. On the point of inflation the honourable member made some reference to Ihe late Treasurer. I want to quote from a document which states that, in the year mentioned by the honourable member, Australia had the highest inflation rate in the world with the exception of one country, Austria, which was in one hell of a lot of strife as a result of the world conflict which had ended shortly before that time. So much for the honourable member for Isaacs. lt seems somewhat odd today that after having heard a very short speech by the Prime Minister the other night regarding the state of the economy and inflation - it lasted about 7 minutes, and I have been accused of making interjections in this House covering almost that length of time - the first principal  speaker  on behalf of the Government was none other than a previous Treasurer, and ihe present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  was seen to leave the House. Whether or not he went along and had some violent argument with the Prime Minister. I do not know. But he finally came back here and gave a 15-minute slow drawl on what he considered ought to be done. Inflation has been caused by this Government. What my colleague said a few minutes ago in regard to who and what cause inflation is very true. 1 do not intend to go over that ground again. What I intend to do is make some brief reply to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  whose electorate most certainly carried a no confidence motion in him last Saturday. Incidentally, during the course of his speech the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  interjected now and again with a 'Yes, yes' regarding the reduction of production. The Government by its own actions and by its insistence at State government level has forced a reduction of production in the rural sector as a policy of the Government. 
 lt is an absolute truth, and the honourable member knows it. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  sees fit to interject. He has been part of the plan and continues to be part of the plan to reduce further the production of rural industries in this country. Yet we have had members on his side of the House this afternoon saying that the earnings from the rural' industries are the principal income of Australia. What is this Party on the other side doing to the wool industry at the moment? The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  was interjecting at one stage when a Labor member was on his feet. He said: 'Would you increase the price of wool?' lt is time he had enough sense also to realise that it is not so much the increase in the price of wool that ought to be concerning his mind as a so-called representative of a rural electorate; what he should be considering is a greater percentage to the producers. He should concern himself, as honourable members on this side should concern themselves, with the tremendous gap between what the producer gets and what the consumer has to pay. That is what the Government has to consider. It will not cure inflation by coming in here and suggesting as it has done over the years that one or two particular sectors of the community will have to bear the burden of the shocking inequalities it has imposed through the years. The Government has imposed absolutely shocking inequalities. 
Its involvement in Vietnam has cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and this is unproductive money, to render three-fifths of a country. South Vietnam, impossible for habitation and vegetation for God knows how many years. If that is not inflation for goodness' sake tell me what is. Has that not been the reason why the 
United States has been in a position similar to ours? The only difference is that this Government is in a better position to tackle inflation than the United States is because, whilstthe United States involvement in Vietnam is a tremedous waste of money apart from the tragedy of loss of life, it is reliant for a large percentage of its employment on the production of war materials and equipment which this country is not. That is where our money is going. Coming back to what the Prime Minister had to say in regard to some immediate effect, he is going to cut down on a particular sector. He will cause kids to go back to school with less finance to provide for their further education, if they are fortunate enough to be able to avail themselves of it, or to walk the streets or go onto meagre unemployment benefit from the Department of Labour and National Service. The Prime Minister saw fit to make some criticisms of one of his Ministers over a guard that came to Canberra in the last couple of weeks. The fact is that the Prime Minister himself in the last few days has been entertaining at the Lodge what he considersto be the cream of the Young Liberal Movement in Australia, no doubt at the expense of the taxpayers. I read recently that some Commonwealth Government Departments will have floats in the Moomba Festival that will cost some scores of thousands of dollars. 
The Government's approachto curing an inflationary spiral of its making due to its irresponsibility will do nothing for the pensioner. For the Prime Minister to sit in this House yesterday afternoon and say he would not give consideration to a Budget which would have the purpose at least of giving some consideration to the position of those on fixed incomes and those on social welfare benefits, was to display an arrogant and absolutely pigheaded attitude. It could not be described as anything else.  His  attitude is one which is absolutely pigheaded and stupid. What then did the honourable member for Isaacs consider he had to be proud of when he stood only a few moments ago defending - as one would expect himto defend - the business interests of this country. When I talk about business interests 1 am talking about the huge take-over organisations, the huge monopolies that are allowed to grow here, and the 1,300-odd companies that sit over in Norfolk Island dodging their taxation responsibilities. 
It is good weather and as far as this Government is concerned it is in the same climate. It considers it is in good weather when perhaps it is not. The fact is that it has a responsibility to ensure that these companies which are registered in Norfolk Island and dodging their responsibilities pull their weight because they are getting their profits out of the people of this country. The Government is helping them get away with one hell of a racket: it is no more than that. Then the Treasurer gets up and says: 'Of course, the Department considers it has certain powers for extracting taxation from those companies as though they were registered in Australia'. What I am getting at now that the honourable member for Isaacs has returned to the chamber is this. 
Yes, he did leave it. Do not tell lies. He left it all right. 
I spoke the truth. I do not want to waste mytime debating whether or not the honourable member for Isaacs left the chamber. He was expected to make the type of speech he made this afternoon because he belongs to a party which represents what? Big business, wealth and monopoly, the take-over, the get big or get out' attitude. That is the party he belongs to. That is the party he represents. It is a big business oriented party and he stands here and makes criticisms of industrial organisations. He does not make criticisms of pensioner organisations because he lacks the courage to do so, but he does a far worse thing by completely ignoring the wants and needs of 75 per cent of pensioners in this country who are reliant on the dole and handouts that this Government saw fit to give them only in the last few weeks. Honourable members opposite stand here like a bunch of hypocrites. That is the only way in which they can be aptly and properly described. 
They have sent the word along to big business undertakings that if they dare entertain any thoughts with trade unions of over-award payments the Government will do something to them so far as tariff proposals are concerned. The Treasurer, when he reluctantly and finally decided to stand in this chamber, said: 'Well, of course the Arbitration Commission only set the floor and not the ceiling". How hypocritical can he be? 
This Government has sat completely idly by and watched the mineral wealth of this country being exploited because it considered it had to do no more than give handouts in some way or other to those who want to explore and take from this country our mineral wealth. The Government has done little or nothing to ensure that this country will grow as a result of the discovery of mineral wealth by at least giving us some plan for the production from that metal even of some mineral in ingot form. The Government has been in office since 1949. It has, as has been said in this House this afternoon, gone through a number of periods similar to the one the country finds itself in today. It still has not the good sense, the capability or even the common sense to lay down a plan. If it did have any such thoughts of laying down a plan it would most certainly go about it in the most stupid manner. In the last couple of weeks the Prime Minister again had coming to this city leaders in commerce, trade unions and what have you, pleading about the state of the economy. He has not the brains to insist somewhere along the line that it is about time there was a national plan. It is about time he changed his and the Government's attitude to worker organisations in this country for the country's good instead of hurling abuse at them day after day in Press statement after Press statement and having Press Secretaries to add to all of this. Why is not the Government prepared to sit down sensibly and soberly- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am most disappointed by the remarks of the new Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  tonight during the adjournment debate. I give him no first prize for thinking that he was going to con me on to my feet before be got up. The facts are that, whilst he may indulge in figures and statistics, they do not fool me and they do not fool the people of South Australia. Taken as a percentage of the whole, Western Australia was about $39m better off, which is a lot of money when it comes to road construction, particularly of a road of this nature. The Minister has gone on record in this place tonight as having said that a number of State governments would not support South Australia's attitude to the sealing of the Eyre Highway. The Premier of Western Australia has gone on record in the last 24 hours as saying that it is not the responsibility of the South Australian Government, taking into consideration the grants that have been received oyer -the last few years. So the Minister is quite wrong there. At the first opportunity he should avail himself to the procedures of this House to retract the statement which he so recently made in this place, lt is not a fact, but that is not the main point. 1 am not standing here to belabour a comparison with Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Kangaroo Island or Norfolk Island. The fact is that the South Australian Government already is running at a deficit as a result of the actions of the Federal Government and the Federal Treasurer but has seen fit, because of the urgency of the situation and in the interests of preserving human life and preventing family suffering, to recognise that it cannot continue to permit the Eyre Highway to take such a tragic toll of life. The situation is particularly tragic because most unfortunate victims of this highway are killed during the festive season when people are in a lighter mood and are going on holiday and because the highway is used by many people who are not experienced in driving on a country road of this nature. 
The offer of the South Australian Government of $3m as its contribution to the cost of sealing the highway and its attitude in requesting only a little more than S6m from the Federal Government for this purpose are worthy of serious and humane thought by this Government in the interests of humanity. I appreciate that the Minister for Shipping and Transport, who is now at the table, has not been in this portfolio for very long and that the job of sealing the highway is somewhat different from turning off a jet of water in Lake Burley Griffin - it is a problem which commands much more serious thought - but in my lighter moments I hope that the Minister will give sympathetic and serious thought to what I have proposed. I do not know whether the Cabinet has discussed this matter, nor do I know how many members of the Cabinet have an opportunity to express their will during meetings of the Cabinet, but if the Cabinet has not discussed this topic I would suggest that for the reasons I have mentioned already it should give serious consideration to the offer made by the South Australian Government and should at least double the Commonwealth's contribution to enable the sealing of the highway to proceed. This question should not be approached on the basis of whether we have a beef road at Oodnawoopwoop and somebody else has a beef road in some other remote area of the Commonwealth. 
The fact is that from the defence point of view, as was mentioned by one of my colleagues earlier, it is a disgrace that the highway has not been sealed. The attitude prevailing in Western Australia for God knows how many years before the advent of the airlines as we know them today was that Western Australia was almost completely isolated from the rest of the Commonwealth because of the difficulty of transport and communications. Although we have much improved rail and air facilities today, we ask that the road be sealed in the interests of humanity and for the benefit of commerce also. The Minister has mentioned that the Chamber of Commerce or the Chambers of Manufactures is in favour of the road being sealed. I can assure the House that neither body is affiliated with the Trades and Labour Council in South Australia or the Australian Labor Party. Those organisations support and vote for the Government. On other occasions their interests are represented in this place when a demand is made for work to be performed in some area which concerns their interests. On this occasion I suggest that the Government should listen to their views. I would applaud it for doing so. 
I ask the Minister to ensure that the road is built. I leave it on the basis that the Minister will reply to representations made in this place tonight by South Australian Labor members of Parliament. I appreciate that the Minister's knowledge of this subject would probably be limited, bearing in mind that he has held this portfolio for a short time only, but I hope that he will undertake to have this matter con sidered seriously by the Cabinet and that he will make a statement to the House in the very near future. I make this request on the basis of humanity - not on the basis of political emotions. 
I realise that the time allowed for this debate will expire very shortly. I understand that there are only 2 or 3 minutes left butI want to take this opportunity to support what has been said by members of this side of the House, and in so doing- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
What, has he gagged me? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the attention of the Minister for National Development been drawn to  a  recent statement  by  the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Soke, that even if South Australia agreed  to the  Dartmouth Dam proposal tomorrow, the 3 States concerned and the Commonwealth would have to have another look at  the  question. In view of the Premiers statement, to which the Minister referred recently, is the Minister in  a  position at this point of time to inform the House  whether the Commonwealth would have to make  a  reassessment of its position? 
 I desire to refer in this debate to another aspect of censorship which we see imposed upon this country from time to time. I refer to censorship by the Press; to censorship by Ministers in this House; to censorship by government departments; to a type of censorship that is in fact almost imposed in this House. Some honourable members opposite may regard such censorship as being in the interests of the nation generally. I do not hold that view. In recent times this Government has granted a foreign power the right to construct in this country installations which will la the future, I regret to say, endanger the lives of Australians and the very existence of Australia as we know it. It is to that type of censorship that I propose to direct my remarks. 
I understand that the honourable member for Boothby is taking umbrage at the fact that I do not want  to  belabour in this House the questions of censorship which have been raised since yesterday afternoon. I believe that it has been an extremely good debate. Now I am endeavouring. , to put forward a point of view on censorship which does not necessarily relate to films, the communications media, books, pornography and so on. 1 regard censorship in another field as a very serious matter, and I point out to the honourable member for Boothby that it is to this field to which I intend lo direct the attention of the House. 
As 1 have mentioned, in the last few years this Government has seen fit to withhold information which is of viral importance to and should be in the knowledge of every citizen in Australia. I hold this very strong view because of the fact that 1 believe this Government's action in the areas to which I have referred is such that it places everybody in this country in danger. Installations are spread throughout the length and breadth of this nation. The circumstances surrounding these installations are held in .deep secret and are kept under a deep censorship shroud. I refer to the installations at Pine Gap, North West Cape, Woomera and others. This Government has seen fit to place a blanket of secrecy and censorship over this complete area of activity by foreign powers. J know of no other country which would in fact permit to occur' what has occurred in Australia. With some limited exceptions it is not within the rights of this Government to carry out What in fact it is carrying out under a cloak of censorship, thus denying to the people of Australia "the right to express proper' and adequately informed opinions on these' installations. 
Recently questions were asked of the appropriate Ministers of the Government - from the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  down - as a result of some publicity which was given to the Pine Gap and other global communication systems. It was said that ,they were necessary for the defence of this country because they would permit the transmitting of warnings to the United  States  of America which, of course, is the country responsible for the construction of these installations, with the good graces of the Commonwealth Government. I stated then - and I repeat if now- that the Australian people ought to be properly and adequately informed about these installations, which are being kept under such secrecy, so that the people can make an assessment about them, as they may be able to do in the future in deciding whether they will see a particular film or whether they will go lo South Australia to see 'Oh Calcutta!' 
To night 1 want to deal with the National Service Act and refer to a similar matter that was raised in this chamber last Friday by my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  [ recall having said something in this House relative to this matter during the course of an adjournment debate in the Budget session. I want to raise a matter concerning the National Service Act, in the absence of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who has just scurried through one door of this chamber and out another. Earlier I asked whether or not there was any provision within the Act and whether there was any discretionary power vested in the Minister by the Act to exempt people from being called up on compassionate grounds. I placed the matter before the Minister by asking that where there was a widow- 
I know there is no provision. The Minister need not inform me by way of interjection, ft is a failing of the Government that it has not had the courage, the decency or the foresight to provide such a provision, and that is my answer to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  who just interjected, t would like to mention the case of a widow with 8 children, 6 of whom are going to school. She has a junior girl at work who cut short her education, because of the tragic death of her father. This woman's son was notified of his call-up in the lottery of death which is supported by honourable members opposite. The Minister did not have the decency or the courage to place the matter before his Cabinet colleagues on compassionate grounds so that Cabinet could look at this particular case on its merits and see the effect the call-up would have on this widow and her family. The Minister wrote a letter to me which I did not even trouble to bring from Adelaide because it consisted of the greatest lot of rot that has ever been directed to one from a so-called responsible Minister. 
 I know because I received a letter, a copy of which you can have, and I will be prepared to debate the matter with you in any part of Adelaide you so desire, and even with some of your friends and the way-out rightists you see fit to support. 
As is usual when a matter of such vital importance to country electorates as this is being discussed in this House there is always a succession of Opposition speakers because the Government parties are not prepared to debate the issues. I see in the chamber tonight, apart from you,  Mr Speaker,  only a couple of members of the Liberal Party. The number has increased by one as I speak. Members of the Country Party are usually here but only in the physical sense. I rise to criticise the Government because it has been m office for so long and has done so little. It should be criticised and is deserving of criticism. Let members of the Government stand in this chamber and say what they have done in regard to the water problems of the Commonwealth over the years. I know it would not be fitting for me even to breathe the name of the proposed water storage in South Australia but I will mention the Ord River project. The word 'Ord' is almost a dirty 3-letter word so far as Government members are concerned. 
Flood mitigation and the expenditure involved in flood mitigation in a country such as ours is in the long term a shocking waste of public funds and represents a shocking lack of foresight on the part of a Government that has been in office far too long. The northern rivers system of New South Wales has come to the attention of the House in this Bill because of the parochial attitude of some members of the Country Party. They are sitting here on my left. Their political attitude is of the extreme right. This afternoon they have said some of the most stupid things I have heard. I heard one honourable member who occupied the Chair during part of the debate - he later entered the debate - say that the whole thing should be left to local shire councils. He was beating his chest about this aspect of development being almost the optimum in his mind of what development should be. How in the name of goodness could he suggest that the Snowy River would have been harnessed as it has been if the work were left to the local shire councils which, today, are in financial difficulties because of the non-policies of the Government? That was a stupid contribution to this debate which, to some extent, is limited in nature. I repeat that in the long terms the money spent on flood mitigation will be squandered. 
The honourable member can interject because it does not rain often in his electorate so flood mitigation is of no concern to him. The fact is, if he has the nous to absorb it, that flood mitigation in a country such as Australia will, in the long term, represent a waste of finance. Australia is a dry continent. Australia should have a water conservation authority. The Government, by recent legislation, has wrecked the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority. The Government has reduced the effectiveness of the Authority. 
It will enable the Authority to undertake work overseas but it will strangle its operations in Australia. In conjunction with an examination of flood mitigation there should be an investigation of water conservation. What would be wrong with a thorough and proper examination by experts who, of course, are available to the Government and who can adequately measure water volumes that flow to the sea? Flood mitigation works will force water into the sea and in Australia this will be a tragedy. One of the major problems that will face humans in the not too distant future will be a shortage of water. Some countries are examining the possibility of re-using water waste from  society. Indeed some  countries are re-using such water. But in Australia we are living in the Dark Ages and are still chopping down trees and straightening out rivers enabling huge volumes of water to flow to the sea. It will not be long, of course, before we are considering plans for desalinating sea water for our very existence. 
It is a shocking indictment of the Government that it has not carried out studies in that area of the Great Dividing Range where the rivers mentioned in this Bill have their source. Such a study resulted in the formation of the great Snowy Mountains scheme whereby vast quantities of water were impounded. If a similar study had been undertaken in the area now under discussion the necessary headworks and tunnelling would have been carried out and the flow of water would have been controlled. I challenge members opposite at any time to refute my suggestion that if a similar scheme had been undertaken in the Moonbi and Dorrigo Ranges we would have about 21 feet of water in the Darling River the whole year round. This would be achieved by turning the flow of some of the rivers. The Snowy River used to flood almost every year. It does not flood any more and the water flows to the west. This is the sort of thing about which this Government should be thinking. My suggestion would not embrace all the rivers mentioned in the Bill but it would most certainly take care of most of them. 
It is shocking to have to sit in this chamber and listen to some of the arguments advanced by members of the Country Party. They are parochial in their attitude and yet they criticise comments made by members of the Opposition. Their criticism of a former member of the Opposition reveals their narrow political outlook for which they stand continually condemned. Everything to them must be political. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  is laughing. He really cannot afford to laugh because this afternoon there was quoted from the official records of the Parliament the attitude of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on the subject of water conservation. Of course, subsequently members of the Country Party refuted that quotation. I have no doubt that my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  will have something to say about this in a few moments. 
During the debate this afternoon and this evening mention has been made of $100m to be spent on flood mitigation, but little has been said about water conservation. Members opposite have spoken of the millions it has cost those engaged in agricultural pursuits in the areas which have suffered as a result of the Government's inactivity. If we combined these two elements of finance the sum involved would be far greater than the amount it is proposed to expend to waste water. I support the amendment because it has, for its purpose, an attempt to force the Government to do. some constructive thinking about this measure. Members of the Government Parties have criticised the amendment as being irrelevant to the Bill. I do not agree with that, particularly as during the course of this debate members opposite have made comments that have not been entirely relevant. One member opposite dealt briefly with water resources. Another Government member was critical of one of my colleagues for daring to mention water conservation. This Bill will be passed because the Government has the numbers. This is a numbers game; it is a political game. People do not matter as people and rights do not matter as rights so long as Government members have their small-minded way with legislation which typifies their attitude. This is typical of other debates that have ensued during the 12 months that I have been a member. The fact is that in their condemnation of the amendment, Government members are condemning what should be a long range outlook on this problem. It seems to  me  that members opposite do not want to think about anything unless it is a narrow problem involving the small confines of their own electorates. This applies to all members of the Country Party. If the rabbits got up and barked members opposite would probably hop. That is their attitude. If someone raises a question in their electorates, members of the Country Party will raise it in the Parliament, but they are not prepared to look at anything from a national point of view. The former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  may well snigger with the honourable member for Angas (Mi Giles) who so often changes his mind.  11  he tried to change horses midstream as often as he changes his mind he certainly would not be . in this chamber today. The fact is that the Government has no plan for water conservation. It has no plan for almost anything. It has played politics for 20 long years and a pretty shocking show it has made of it. 
If it were not unparliamentary I would tell the honourable member the truth now. The fact is that he has no plan and his interjection confirms it. He ought to have enough courage as a member for the Government to stand and move that the debate be adjourned so that he can sit down and give some serious thought to the problem. 
He is overheard, but worst of all he is over here, but he may not be here for long. Why is it then that this Government has not embarked upon a plan? Because it is a government which is negative in its outlook on almost everything. It is a government of absolute, utter and disgraceful discrimination. It has been since it achieved office. It achieved office on that note and it will continue to be a government of discrimination. It has discriminated on almost every matter that has come before this House since it has been in office. It does not give a damn for the people when it discriminates in this way. It is discriminating in this Bill by confining the Bill to New South Wales. 
I do not think we have much to worry about in the State from which I come in regard to flood mitigation. We had a flood of Liberals at one time; we even got rid of those. The fact is that South Australia has not that much water and that is why I have risen in this debate tonight. Looking at the problem from a national point of view, the Government is robbing some areas of South Australia of the possibility of getting water by squandering millions of dollars on a short term plan which it cannot get out of now. It has led men into a situation where it now has to do something to protect them, their wives and families and their properties. At the same time it is only because of the Government's gross and utter neglect that this situation exists to-day. We see the resources of this country go to waste and our financial resources are also wasted. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  has the hide to stand here this afternoon and blame the late Ben Chifley for the lack of flood mitigation works in northern New South Wales in the 1950s. Ben Chifley certainly would not have been with us at the time to which the honourable member refers. The honourable member said to me that I was not in the House at the time- 
The honourable member for Cowper should know that.  His  snide remark to me was: 'You were not in the House then'. Neither was he in the darned place. Where does that get him. This is a classic illustration of the attitude of these people who have been in government far too long and who have done far too little. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)There is no substance in the point of order. 
Certainly there is no point of order. 
Prior to being interrupted by a point of order taken by the honourable member for Angas, I had used the words 'flood mitigation' 3 times in 3 minutes. The Government is wasting money today with its long term view. As I said before, and for the honourable member's benefit I will remind him, what the Government is doing today in the long term will be wasted because it is spending money on flood mitigation. If it had had sense over the last few years it would not be in this. The honourable member for Angas is always ready to say something in this chamber when I am on my feet. I do not know why. He seems to be completely tongue tied at other times. If he is so interested in what I am saying and if he wants to come across afterwards I will show him a plan and the facts put forward over the years in relation to the flood waters from the Northern Rivers. These show that what I said could be done, can be done. But the honourable member would not be interested because of his petty party outlook which has done nothing for flood mitigation in New South Wales. So send your political colleagues up to their electorates and let them beat the drum about what they are doing in in this Bill as much as they like, for as long as they like. The Government should be condemned today in this chamber. When those who will follow us in this chamber, when the honourable member for Angas and I have long gone, read history they will condemn honourable members opposite all the more for their utter and absolute stupidity. He, as a South Australian, should be more concerned than members from other neighbouring States of New South Wales. Obviously he is not because he cannot elevate his mind above his narrow political outlook both in the State and Federal spheres. 
In conclusion, I support the amendment. It has been difficult to get a debate in this 
House on water conservation and I have had to go off the track a little. I did this because the fellow who interjects so much, with his parliamentary colleagues, has prevented such a debate. The fact is that one of these days in the not distant future he, along with every other Government member in this place, will stand to be counted by his electors and I am quite sure the electors' memories will be somewhat longer than the Government thinks. 1 urge the Government members in their sorrowful moment to support the amendment. This will mean that the Bill is carried but a national planning organisation, an all-party committee, will be set up. That is what the amendment says, no more and no less. The main thing is that honourable members opposite should be big enough to. recognise the Parliament as it ought to be recognised, to recognise that they have a responsibility to the whole of the country and to set up a joint committee of this House which would have the right to call evidence from wherever it sees fit on this most important question. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. Does he consider that General  Sir Thomas  Daly behaved with propriety when he accepted the invitation of the former Prime Minister to meet him and discuss allegations about the conduct of the former Minister for Defence? Does he consider that the actions of the former Minister for Defence were sufficiently serious to justify this unprecedented procedure? Has he made, representations to the new Prime Minister to ensure that he or the Minister for Defence is not again by-passed in this way? 
On Saturday people in the electorate of Murray will be casting a vote in a federal by-election. I want to say something about that area and to draw the attention of its people to the fact that this Government, which is running 2 candidates - one in the name of the Country Party and one in the name of the Liberal Party - has shown gross, utter and irresponsible neglect of that area in the matter of shipping freights and in other fields. A measure of the Government's incredible apathy in the past to the problems of the local industries is the loss of $2m worth of pears because the Government, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, denied the canneries financial means to maintain a reasonable throughput. The Government, by this action, has saddled the canneries with high unit operating costs and 20,000 tons of good fruit have been turned into the ground. This has taken $2m out of the growers' pockets, thus vastly reducing their standard of living. Events have gone to such an extent that one poor unfortunate grower was forced to the point of desperation. On one occasion when he was on the weighbridge in Shepparton he was told that the canneries could not take his fruit and he resorted to violence. It is the Government which was responsible for the violence into which that unfortunate person was forced on that afternoon. 
The Government's attitude towards this industry and the people in the town and district concerned is completely in line with its incredible apathy in Parliament itself. The nation is faced with more complex economic problems than ever before, but the Senate abandoned its sittings yesterday because of lack of business. The Government does not have enough business to keep the Senate in session. This afternoon the House of Representatives will disperse for 10 days. The Opposition has carried the Parliament this week. We carried the Parliament last week. The Opposition has kept Parliament in session because the Government did not have legislation or other business to deal with or even the energy to report to the nation on the great range of vital matters which now concern us. The Opposition forced the Government to pay attention to the crises in education and the wool industry. We provided speakers in the debates on the matters, few as they were, which came before the House. Yesterday the Government Parties saw lit not to provide speakers on a Bill before the House and left it to Opposition members to carry the debate. The tiredness and apathy of the Government are reflected in the fact that it prefers to gag Parliament and to send us away so that it can continue to govern through Press leaks and what have you. 
Yesterday afternoon in the course of a debate 1 was gagged when I wanted to repeat in this chamber some of the statements made by a former Minister for Shipping and Transport who now holds another portfolio, the administration of which should be conducted in the interests of electors in the Murray division. But of course, since his appointment as Minister for Primary Industry he has had nothing to say that would in any way encourage the electors of the Murray division to support a candidate from the Government Parties. I have pointed out to honourable members before that the last member for Murray packed a bag with $40m and trotted off overseas. He said: 'I will get the growers, the real people of this country, a better deal in shipping'.  Sir John  McEwen may know where that $40m is now. I wish to quote from a speech made in this House by  Sir John  McEwen on 19th October 1970, in which he said: 
The Government in its support for, and participation in, the introduction of the container system between Australia and the United Kingdom and Europe believed that the new system seemed likely to reduce costs and enable either freight reduction or greater stability in freights than in the past, where there has been a history of constant freight increases. 
He did nothing to bring about that result. He admitted his absolute and utter defeat to further the interests of the people of his electorate and the rural industries generally when he made that statement in the House before his retirement. He boasted that the expenditure of $40m to participate in the Conference Line shipping arrangements would give us a voice to protect the shippers of this country and thus to protect the community generally. Of course, his boast was not made good. 
During the last parliamentary recess many Ministers beat their bongo drums.  Mr Sinclair,  who was then Minister for Shipping and Transport, attended a conference of the Australian Country Party held in Griffith, located in a rural electorate. He said in addressing the conference that there was no justification for the increases in shipping freights. He made that statement in June of last year. In July he made another very strong and positive statement that the provisions of the Trade Practices Act would be invoked against the shipowners. Has he done that? Has he told the House that he has had that action in mind? Has any member of the Cabinet told us here that he would take a stand against these commercial and business pirates? Not at all.  Mr Sinclair  made those bold statements to a Country Party conference and then came in here like a hypocrite. Of course he is hypocritical by his silence. In fact, they all are hypocritical. 
I withdraw the remark because I want to tell the House of some further statements he made. The legislation has been found to be useless as far as shipping freights are concerned. It is time the Government did something positive about freights and about the managerial policies necessary to bring this industry up to the desired level. He said at the Country Party conference that action was being taken for the benefit of country people. 

 - Mr Sinclair said it, the present Minister for Primary Industry. It is on record that he said it. Press cuttings available in the Library will confirm it. The Minister has done nothing for the people he is supposed to represent here. If he as a Country Party Minister is not prepared to recognise the needs of the people he represents, how the hell can he expect his lesser numbers in this place properly to represent the people they purport to represent. Members of the Country Party stand condemned because of their inaction and failure properly to represent the fruit growers and people in country areas generally. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  12.45  to  2.15  p.m. 
-I desire to raise a matter on the motion for the adjournment of the House. From what is being said in this building it is apparent that 2 present Ministers will be deposed. A number of ministerial officers are frantically packing files and what have you. 1 think the House is entitled to be informed as to what is occurring as far as the Ministry and the Cabinet are concerned. However, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has seen fit to take himself off to some remote area of Victoria this afternoon, I understand, and leave quite a number of Ministers lamenting as to their fate. I understand that the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  is to be deposed. Whether the Prime Minister will take on that portfolio also I do not know. In addition I understand that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will be axed. This House should be informed as to the position rather than have statements made behind the Government's back after the House rises today. Why is it that these changes that perhaps have been mooted for some weeks have been brought about? At least the House is entitled to know. 
In addition to that the House is entitled to know, if there are to be changes, which members are going to replace the deposed Ministers. Are we to be left until such time as the Prime Minister sees fit to make a leak or some announcement to the Press to know whether a person whose standing in this place is most certainly at the lowest possible ebb will be included in the Cabinet or even in the Ministry? 1 refer to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  All these sorts of things ought to be the concern of this House and they ought to be the concern of the Prime Minister for that reason if for no other. 
It is at a low ebb because he carried on in the manner he did, made a statement to the House as he did, expressed and admitted his own guilt in the matter in the way he did but expected to be the prince of the place in a week. In fact he is down to the lowest form of actor within the Parliament. As a matter of fact, one ought to get a copy of Henry Lawson's poem T'm too old to rat' and leave it at that. 
I suggest that he did, yes. In fact, I more than suggest it. What can we expect in the next week? Can it be said that the only Ministers who can leave this place this afternoon confident in the belief that they will be Ministers in the next few weeks or so are those 5 Country Party Ministers and perhaps the Prime Minister himself, in the absence of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)?  This Parliament is being ignored. Why should one have to rely on what one has observed going on in some ministerial offices in the last 2 days? Why should one be hesitant about placing a matter on behalf of one's constituents before a particular Minister when the attitude of that Minister is such that he feels that he will not be a Minister for much longer? Yet another Minister who perhaps is in mid-air now enters this chamber. He does not know whether or not he is going to continue to be a Minister. He is already starting to walk out because I, a back bencher, am raising this matter. What is the position of the man whom the Liberal Party has seen fit, somewhat belatedly, to elect as its Prime Minister? This is not good government. This is no way to approach the problems of the electorate. I include the whole of Australia in that term. 
If the Prime Minister considers it is right to make certain ministerial changes affecting his Cabinet ranks, and if the Liberal Party considers that to be within its God-given rights, fair enough. But at least the Prime Minister should not ignore the Parliament and turn his back on it. Honourable members should not have to go out into the corridors and hear from members of the community who frequent this place from time to time that they have been told to look for other jobs. What sort of a way is that to treat the Parliament of this country? I say to the Prime Minister that if what is being said around this place and if what one's observations can confirm is going to be announced tomorrow or next week, he stands condemned for not making a proper announcement. Who is going to be the Minister for Social Services if the present Minister is deposed by this dictatorial method? 
God forbid. Surely it is not going to be the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay). 
I beg your pardon. I thought he said  'His  Holiness'. However, that is by the way. The fact is that this House ought to be given ' some indication as to what changes are to be made. The Prime Minister should not take a week or so to do that. Honourable members should not have to rely on the type of information that is going around this House. How many Ministers can leave this afternoon and know that they may return to this place on Tuesday week as Ministers? Not many. 1 have a matter that I want to take up with a number of Ministers, and it is completely in the air. The only one with whom I can discuss some matters on behalf of my constituents, I suppose - if the previous Prime Minister has left his filing system intact - is the Prime 'Minister on those odd and rare occasions when he is in this House. The other night I wanted to raise a matter on the adjournment. When I went to tell the Party Whip that I was going to raise a matter in this House concerning the Prime Minister I was told that he was not even in the .place. 1 do not intend to belabour the matter, other than to reiterate my condemnation of the type of government this country can expect from the person who is now its Prime Minister. Obviously he has been backing and filling over the last few days - almost since- his election - on what changes he will make, what moves he will make, whether he will be able to fit the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  into a ministerial position without incurring the wrath of a great number of other members of the Party, whether the numbers game can continue to be played in his favour and a whole host of other things.- 
This is purely party politics from a party man who says that members of the Liberal 
Party are never told what they are to do but who has gone on record in the last week or so as making off post haste after his election as Prime Minister to confer with the top leaders of the Liberal Party. 
If he gets into the Ministry the third political party i,i this Parliament, which has never been represented in this chamber, will virtually obtain representation here through the Prime Minister. 1 make that statement and suggest that if I am wrong the honourable member for Lilley ought to stand up and correct me in quite a forceful way. 
I want to come back to the gods and lords of the Liberal Party. Members of the Liberal Party say that they are the masters of their own destiny in this place, that they do not ever say anything in this place other than what comes from their own heads and that they are completely absolved from any charge of outside control. Yet the Prime Minister is about to trot off to Queensland to patch up the disputes that exist there between the State and Federal bodies of the Party. If he is to do all the patching up that is necessary in the Liberal Party from the Young Liberals to the most far flung branch of the Party in the next 6 months, he will not be able to be in this chamber very much. 
At the same time he has to have his eyes on what the  Deputy  Prime. Minister  (Mr Anthony)  might be doing on behalf of the Country Party. The situation in many country electorates today is spelling doom for that Party. Surely we cannot continue for much longer to see a situation in which a party that receives a smaller percentage of votes in House of Representatives elections than does even the Democratic Labor Party wins 20-odd seats in this place. 
lt is an absolute shame. It is a mockery of democracy. 1 leave the matter on that 'basis. I hope that, whatever changes' the Prime Minister is contemplating, he will ' do the right thing by the people - to whom he is giving the axe and make an announcement shortly. Apparently some people in this place are to be given the axe just because they are not prepared to vote the right way, to look the right way or to comb their hair the right way; no more than that. 

 - Mr Chairman, I rise to support the amendment. With all due respect to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I am somewhat disappointed that the period prescribed by the amendment is not 6 months instead of 12 months as proposed. I rise also because the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has seen fit to misconstrue the objectiveness of the speech that was made by my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The honourable member went into some discourse on income tax. No doubt he was referring to the Premier of Queensland, a member of his own Party,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I do not know; that is a matter for him to clarify. 
Another reason why I have risen is the very weak and wishy washy manner in which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  sought to justify clause 1 1 of the Bill. In his closing remarks he more than implied that a person who has submitted a return that he believes to be absolutely true may be said by his Department, some 5 years later, to be guilty of an offence if it is found that the return is in part false. The Opposition has questioned what this would mean in the case where the business of that grower was in joint names, that is, either husband or wife, or the grower and his son. The Minister in his explanation, as far as I am concerned, has not been clear enough as to whether there could not be some form of prosecution, per se, even after the death of that grower. At no time did I feel that the honourable member for Riverina was speaking of people who would in conscience offend. As I understood the honourable member, he was putting to the Committee the distinction between the person who unconsciously commits an offence - I use the term 'offence' with some degree of reluctance, but it is contained in this measure - and the person who in conscience commits an offence. 
Listening to the speech by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  honourable members would think that 50 per cent of the growers would be classed as offenders. I visualise those growers waiting for the months and years to go by and, in 5 years time, in the Murray area generally a great stampede of people occurring with growers throwing their hats in the air and saying: 'We are off the hook; the 5 years have elapsed'. That was the way in which the honourable member for Mallee approaching this provision. 1 believe that the provision that a prosecution for an offence may be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission of the offence is quite stupid. Surely the system under which the industry operates is that a check, even a self-evident check, could be carried out as to whether a person was being dishonest to the degree provided by this clause of the Bill. I am opposed to this long drawn out delay in prosecution. The threat of the Government filching a fine of $200 from a grower for such an offence exists for 5 years. A grower may discover in the second year, after unknowingly committing an offence, that he has committed an offence. He may endeavour to cover up that offence by committing further offences in the second, third and fourth years. Because of the threat of prosecution from the Department his conscience is under quite a burden as a result of an honest mistake he has made. Is this the way in which a penalty should be applied? 
The Minister has said that the Government wishes to catch up with '2 smarties'. Let me say this to the Minister: If he wishes to catch up with the smarties he will have a job including all necessary provisions in a Bill to give protection against such smarties. What the Government possibly is doing by this legislation is inflicting an unjust punishment on the innocent. It is for that reason that I support the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in the Federal Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the Citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for pet foods and other purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
lt is an indisputable fact, that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: The export of all kangaroo products, including pet foods and furs, be banned immediately. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to raise the matter of Jetair Australia Ltd. Recently in this House questions were directed to the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  Obviously they were Dorothy Dixers. Some curious replies were given on 18th and 24th February in regard to these matters. 
Before I refer to the Jetair company I want to talk about 3 men - A. Barton, J. Bovill and R. A. Rydge. Two of these 3 - Barton and Bovill - are or were directors of Brins Australia Ltd, Landmark Corporation Ltd, Palgrave Corporation Ltd and, before that, Associated Gem Corporation Ltd. That last company had a paid-up capital of $10,000 and was owned by Barton and Bovill. They sold that company to Palgrave Corporation Ltd, which they controlled, for $250,000 in shares. Of the remaining companies, one - Landmark Corporation Ltd - has become bankrupt. These 3 men - I ask the House to note their names, Barton, Bovill and Rydge - are directors of a number of public companies, including Bounty Oil, Westmoreland Minerals and Harbourside Oil. 
Now I come to the Jetair company. It was incorporated in New South Wales in May 1969 with a paid-up capital of $77.50 in 155 50c shares. The owners and directors were Barton, Bovill and Rydge. Their plans for the Jetair company were set out in the March 1970 issue of 'Rydge's Business Journal'. The said Jetair company had acquired a number of DC3 aircraft and 2 Viscount aircraft and was currently planning to become a third major Australian airline. The article said that the Jetair company was proposing a public float involving shares to the value of almost $10m. The article pointed out that its success would depend on the Government's granting an airline licence and permission to import new and suitable aircraft. 
How did the Jetair company acquire its aircraft? Two of these DC3s were owned originally by Trans-Australia Airlines. TAA, in conformity with Government policy of selling aircraft outside Australia, sold the aircraft for approximately $18,000 each, with an additional $20,000 bond to guarantee that they were taken outside Australia, to a company subsequently acquired by the Jetair company. The Jetair company broke the bond and forfeited $20,000 on each of the aircraft. Its 2 Viscount aircraft came from the Royal Australian Air Force through the Department of Supply. The Department of Supply sold them to an overseas firm, again in conformity with Government policy. Conveniently, that firm defaulted on a debt due to one of Barton's oil companies while the aircraft were still in Australia, and the aircraft were seized in settlement. However, this time Barton's guile went for nought because the Department of Civil Aviation, which itself is no mean hand at devising ways and means of getting what it wants, refused to license the aircraft. 
Nevertheless, at that stage - March 1970 - the Jetair company had aircraft, some routes and the relevant applications before the Government, and was set to go public. The owners of the Jetair company hoped that their friends in Cabinet would be able to get them a third airline licence and lo force the Government to grant them permission to import new aircraft. But, even if they did not succeed, they could float a public company and grant themselves large shareholdings which could be disposed of before the inevitable crash came. Either way they stood to profit. They did not go ahead - not because of an attack of remorse, but for the very good reason that their underwriters withdrew their support. Undeterred, they sold the Jetair company to a public company, spending the public's money. This company was controlled by - guess who? It was controlled by Barton and Bovill. The company - Brins Australia Ltd - is a company with a paid-up capital of $505,000, acting as merchant bankers and using as accountants the firm of Hungerford, Spooner and Kirkhope. I make no comment on that. I give this by way of background. 
The questions that 1 want to raise now are these: Why is the Government buying aircraft from people whose approach to dealings involving public funds is at least questionable, not to say shady? ls it because of their contacts with the Liberal Party? I wish to give some further information which will show the necessity for answers to additional questions. What 1 am about to say is based on contrasts between statements made to the Parliament by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House on 18th February 1971, as reported at page 249 of Hansard, and by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in the Senate on 25th February 1971, as reported at page 347 of Hansard. There are discrepancies in the accounts given by each. If one is to be believed, then the other is not telling the truth. 
Let me go over these point by point. First, when and how did it come about that the Australian Government decided to supply aircraft to Nepal, Cambodia and Laos? On Tuesday, 16th January 1971,  Senator Turnbull  asked  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson whether he would find out the dates on which the Government received requests for DC3 aircraft from the Governments mentioned.  Sir Kenneth  said that he would put the question to his colleague in the normal way. On Thursday, 18th January,  Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson told  Senator Murphy  that, in view of the interest being shown:  it may be necessary lo have a complete consolidated, chronological statement of the circumstances. 
Later in his reply he said:  1 think that before Tuesday I shall collaborate with the Department of Foreign Affairs to obtain a chronological statement setting out what happened. 
It was not until one week later, on Thursday, 25th January, that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson made his statement. It can hardly be considered a full chronological statement and nowhere does it deal with  Senator Turnbull's  request for the dates on which the Government received requests for DC3s if, in fact, it ever did so.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said: 
In 1969 the Department of Foreign Affairs decided to supply S DC3 aircraft as foreign aid, 2 to Nepal, and 3 to Laos. 
These were to come from the Royal Australian Air Force. More than 18 months later, in December 1970, Jetair advertised 6 aircraft for sale. The Minister continued :  the Department of Foreign Affairs ascertained that . . . Cambodia would be glad of the RAAF aircraft. 
Did he, in his ministerial wanderings and meanderings, create a market? The Government did not receive a request from Cambodia - it was bailing Jetair out. See how quickly it acted when its friends in Jetair were involved. The Government decided, in early 1969, to supply Nepal and Laos and bought the first Royal Australian Air Force planes in March 1969. Two years later they still have not been delivered. But, let Jetair advertise and within 2 months the Department of Foreign Affairs arranged to dump its own aircraft in Cambodia and made a private treaty to buy all Jetair's aircraft, even though, according to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, there are still 5 surplus DC3 aircraft, already belonging to the Government, remaining at Laverton air base. This information appears on page 76 of Hansard of 17th February 1971.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's report to the Senate glosses over essential details but makes it clear that the decision to provide aircraft to Cambodia was not taken until Jetair advertised its aircraft for sale less than 3 months ago, in December 1970. Let me recall a statement made by the former 
Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  which appears on page 249 of Hansard: 
. a til lie over a year ago negotiations were commenced for the purchase and delivery to Cambodia. Laos and Nepal of 11 aircraft - 6 to Cambodia, 3 to Laos and 2 to Nepal. 
In the light of what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said, that statement is not true, it is a lie, and it is up to the former Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain why he misled the House. 
There is a second discrepancy. When talking about the cost of converting Royal Australian Air Force DC3s to civil airworthiness standards,  Senator Cotton  told  Senator Keeffe: 
From inquiries made this morning it seems that an average of $50,000 an aircraft is reasonable, perhaps even conservative, as a figure. 
This statement appears on page 133 of Hansard. The previous day,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson had told the Senate:  lt is estimated that the cost of converting them to passenger configuration and of obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for civil operations would cost upwards of $50,000 per aircraft. 
This appears at page 74 of Hansard. Allowing for the initial purchase price of $10,000 to $15,000, this would make a total cost of $60,000 to $65,000. When the former Minister for Foreign Affairs gave details to the House he said:  [f we purchased similar Royal Australian Air Force aircraft and wanted certificates of airworthiness we would have had to spend on the purchase price and conversion something of the order of $80,000. 
That is a considerable discrepancy. Was that figure advised by his Department or was it conjured up by the Minister to bolster his case? Time will not permit me to go into greater detail, but the fact is that the Minister has a case to answer to the House regarding this shady deal with Jetair. He should supply information about the people and personalities who have been concerned with this matter. From the number of Dorothy Dix questions that have been directed at the new Prime Minister, it is obvious that the Government is concerned. The Prime Minister should be in the Chamber tonight, or at least he should take note of what has been disclosed here and tell the truth, as he sees it, about the position. It is not good enough that this capitalist oriented Government should look after its wealthy friends in the manner it does. 
 Certainly the Government has been acting. Its members are actors out of Hollywood. They would win academy awards for their acting. The honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles)  during the course of his speech saw fit to criticise the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  for his interjections and took him to task somewhat severely, saying that in his speech he would suggest a way to correct one of the ills to which the honourable member for Port Adelaide had referred. He did no such thing, because the honourable member for Angus has no proper understanding of the problems of the people in the community who are unfortunately forced to exist on social service payments. 
This Government does not automatically provide a pension for the wife of a person who is forced into retirement at a particular age. It accepts no responsibility whatsoever for aged migrants who are forced to retire without qualifying for a pension. I have written letters to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in regard to this matter. I have brought before him cases of migrants who have come to this country on the sponsorship of their children who have migrated here in earlier years and who have married and assumed responsibilities as family men. Migrants in this category might come here at the age of 62 years and, after working for 3 years, are forced into retirement. If they are in the unskilled category of workers, as is usually the case, they find it exceptionally difficult to obtain work at such an advanced age. What does this Government do for them? lt does absolutely nothing other than to refer them to the people who sponsored them for entry to this country. It forces them to share a condition of absolute bloody poverty. The Minister and the ' Government will do nothing to help them. They make me ill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I desire to enter this debate to deal with, firstly, some of the statements made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  It seems to me that he stood here- 
Motion (by  Mr  Swartz) agreed to: That  the  business  of  the  day be  called  on. 
You do not want to hear a rebuttal of all the rubbish that you allowed them io talk this afternoon,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Drury)Order!  The debate is concluded. 
They are speculators and God knows what! 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we have just heard another swan song. My heart bleeds for the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  who has just resumed his seat. The theme of his swan song is an area in which he, as a supporter of the Government, is vitally interested. 1 refer to the area of investment. The honourable member was concerned about what investment produces for those manufacturers who, as he put it tonight, are the poor in the community. The honourable member should have a look at the profit sheets of some of the firms which no doubt he had in mind when he was on his feet. I will not mention the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or Mount Isa Mines. However, if the honourable member considers what is happening in manufacturing industries and the food industries he will find that he was only telling one side of the story. 
In his contribution the honourable member talked about what the Government has done and the economic measures that it undertook in the last Budget. All I want to say to the honourable member is that he voted for these measures. He fell for them hook, line and sinker. He supported them right down the line. Now we hear his voice raised in protest against those measures. Did you vote in protest against them, Sir? He sat humbly on the Government benches and said and did nothing to defeat them. He can say now that he is opposed to these measures. But a time must come when an honourable member has to stand in this House and be counted. The honourable member for Isaacs most certainly was counted as he voted in favour of each and every one of the economic proposals of the Government. Those proposals were conceived by Ministers attending Cabinet meetings when they locked themselves in concrete vaults, without the honourable member's knowledge, to work out what would be done. I do not know what went on at those meetings; that is best known to bis own Party meetings or like system, 
I am waiting anxiously for a Country Party member to make some contribution to this debate. Country Party members are supposed to be the people who are looking after the rural industries. I will not dwell too long on them because they have had more than their fair share of the available currency of this country to sustain themselves. However. 1 am not objecting to this assistance at this point of time. But what would happen if a body of workers were thrown out of employment because of increased mechanisation or some technological change? Would we see Government members bending over backwards to help them and saying to Bob Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that they would get the workers' rents paid, their interest rates reduced, the rates on their homes lowered, the interest indebtedness in respect of their motor cars reduced, their hire purchase commitments eased? 
We have reached the stage in this place where we ought to be thinking about these things. What is good for the goose is good for the gander. The Government pours millions of dollars into industry. Some honourable members sitting in a group on the other side of the House at the moment - and the previous Minister well knows this - irrespective of possible private objections, have in fact brought a system about in this country that bad for its purpose the reduction of productivity in rural industry. When a wage rise of 6 per cent is granted- 
Yes, it is perfectly true, and 1 will take issue publicly with the honourable member on this at any time. He can talk about meat or anything else he likes to mention. He can talk, if he wishes, about lamb production, wheat production or grain production. I agree that wool productivity has not been decreased. The plight of the growers is measured by the extent that the Government has decreased the return from growing wool. Nothing has been said about the ever widening gap between the grower and the consumer. At the same time the Government is spending millions of dollars of the taxpayers money in the forlorn hope that the dealings of the Australian Wool Commission will give a better return to the grower. Mark my words - they will not. 
The Government has been reducing production. I want to make a comparison for the benefit of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who sits back in his seat and natters inaudibly to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  day and night in this chamber. Although he gets away with murder, when I say something I get whipped into line by the Chair. 
Immediately rises are given by arbitration courts what docs the Government do? The Government attacks the courts for listening to the arguments put to a judicial bench by the representatives of the employees. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission heard valid and proper arguments and granted a rise of 6 per cent in spite of the voice of the Government in this chamber which said: We oppose it'. Who does the Government think the public is? Does it think the public is made up of shareholders and company directors who attend board meetings? To honourable members on this side of the House, the public is made up of people who are producing. They are the people whom we represent and for whom representations are made to obtain increases of wages. Hypocritical questions are asked and answered - or an attempt is made to answer them in this House. The Government says that as a responsible government it will oppose in the public interest claims submitted to the court for wage increases. This is just so much rubbish. The Government probably will continue to adopt this kind of thinking until it is swept from the treasury bench in 1972. that is, if Billy McMahon lasts that long as Prime Minister. 
I would now like to come to the subject of productivity and refute some of the arguments that have been put by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Isaacs said that if we increase productivity, everyone will be better off. Everybody gets on the bandwagon and thinks they are much belter off for it. There is twice as much coal being produced in this country today as previously when more than twice the number of men worked in the industry. Are honourable members opposite who sit in this House representing mining electorates going to tell me that everything is rosy for the people left in the industry? What does this Government do? It mechanises the industry. Nobody has any quarrel with that. Machines ought to be doing the arduous work in industry generally. The difference between Government thinking and Opposition thinking is that the Opposition thinks that mcn should benefit from the machines, and not big business interests. Men should profit from the machines. They should not be used to increase the shareholders' interests. It is people that are important in this concept, not machines and the few people who sit on the boards. 
What does the Government do? It sees that this coal is exported and sold on the world market at a much lower figure than if it were being mined in a much less developed country where the price that that country would be getting for the coal would be twice as much. The Government knows this and doss absolutely nothing about it. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  had the temerity to speak of pollution, of all things. State Liberal governments have allowed industries to be created within their States having no regard whatsoever for the problem of pollution. It is absolutely and utterly criminal that the previous Liberal Government in South Australia allowed the paper industry to be established in the south eastern sector of the State and kill a natural lake, Lake Bonney, in a few short years because the State Government gave the industry the unfettered right, and in fact went out of its way to encourage it, to channel the dangerous waste of the 2 establishments associated with the paper industry into that lake. 
Only a couple of weeks ago I. read in the Press of the deal that is going on south of Sydney with the Clutha development. If the Askin Government allows this particular company to move one step further in this type of production in this area, allows this huge American company - 1 understand it is American at this stage anyway - to put down its own railway, do as it likes, where it likes, when it likes and how it likes, and says to it that it stands completely apart from any State law, that is nothing less than criminal, and the Askin Government ought to be taken to account for it. 
Let me refer now to the 35-hour week. Every representative in cockie's corner, the Country Party members who sit to my left, has been screaming: 'Bob Hawke - the 35-hour week. It is calamitous.' Are those honourable members aware that the first workers' compensation Act that was brought down in the United Kingdom almost 100 years ago caused a wave of almost terror throughout the entire country because the workers in those days were led to believe that they would be out of jobs through the bringing down of an Act whose purpose was to protect the wage earner should he become injured on the job? We have moved a fair way since that time. The first workers' compensation Act was introduced in Germany in 1889. The feeling engendered in the British workers is the type of feeling that the Government is endeavouring to engender in the public mind. 
About 1889. At the same time they spoke about introducing a national superannuation scheme for social welfare benefits. 1 thank . the honourable member for the interjection, 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! I would ask the honourable member for Sturt id address the Chair and ignore interjections. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thought you would have' called the honourable member for Angas to order. However, that was not to be so. Honourable members opposite attack the 35-hour week and say that it will be ruinous; the worker will suffer, the farmers cost structure will go up and all sorts of frightful things will happen. But not one honourable member opposite has endeavoured to inform the House of the percentages of workers in this country who work in excess of 40 hours a week, of those who work from 35 to 39 hours a week and those who work only a 35-hour week. Let me inform, those honourable members of some of the facts that are available, if they are prepared to listen to them. In August 1966 the number of people who worked from 35 to 39 hours a week was 426,000. By August 1970 it had risen to 632,400, an increase of about 206,000. The number who worked 40 hours or more was 2,262.000 in 1966. ByAugust 1970 it had dropped to 2,092,900: a decrease of about 169,000. The percentage of workers on a 35-hour week is far greater, and the trend is increasing. What is wrong, from a democratic point of view, with the trade union slogan of 'Let them all enjoy the same benefits'? Honourable members opposite should not be hypocritical when they speak about a 35-hour week. 
There will be available in the Library shortly a book written in America, and I hope that honourable members opposite will avail themselves of the opportunity of reading it. They will find that trade unions in America prevailing upon employer organisations and industry to introduce a shorter working week. They want a 4-day week. What is significant in regard to this matter - if I can penetrate those thick skulls over there - is that in America production has increased and the economy has improved considerably to the extent that interest rules have been brought down in the last few weeks. I want to repeat that to honourable members opposite because the silly grins are at last leaving their faces. Production has increased as a 4-day week and fewer hours are being worked. Greater hours are being worked perhaps on a daily basis, with overtime rates. While production has increased absenteeism has reduced lo almost nothing. Some types of accidents have decreased considerably. The workers generally have-more leisure time. 
Honourable members should not get the idea that because a 4-day week is being worked factories are closing down for :t portion of the week. That is not the case in many industries, lt is worked on the basis of shift work and with alternate long weekends for the workers. 
Time has  caught up with me and I have only a minute left. I have to use my last minute to criticise those people on the other side of this chamber who represent nothing but big business and who stand in here and cackle as previous speakers have done tonight. I said in the House the other night, and I repeat tonight, that this Government has not even glanced at what is liable to happen to the Australian community as a result of displacement of the work force because of technological change and because of computers. It is time that the Government gave some thought to discussing this matter with representatives of the trade union movement on a completely broad basis. The trade union movement does not mind if it sits down with employers and company directors to discuss matters of vital concern to its membership. lt is time this Government stopped treating the trade unions of this country as an alien' force. 
I rise because when this measure was before the House on the previous occasion I did not want to enter the debate but I did so finally on this particular point. As honourable members may recall, I did so following the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who, I understand, is absent in an overseas country. I do not want to call it Communist something or other. I understand that he is in the Philippines. The fact is that the Government is now saying that it is prepared to accept the Senate's amendment. I rise because of the bitterness with which this aspect was contested by members of the Government parties at the time when the Opposition was moving an amendment that provided for one year instead of the 5 years provided for in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who has just resumed his seat, no doubt from what he said in his discourse to the Committee a few moments ago, would have been quite happy with the situation had the Senate's amendment been for one year instead of 3 years. He is not happy with one year, but now he is prepared to support 3 years. He seems to me to imply that a large percentage of the people of his own electorate are, if not in fact dishonest, then at least susceptible to dishonesty and that the provision of the Bill has to stand at 3 years- 
Yes, he did. If the honourable member for Kennedy wants to rise in this debate he may do so. If he can make a bigger mess of it, on behalf of his Country Party colleagues, than his colleague from Mallee has just made, let him do so. The fact is that he may participate in the debate, if he wants to, instead of continually sitting back there in cockies' corner and mumbling and grumbling about what members of the Opposition have to say about rural matters when he and his colleagues have seen fit to sit here for 20-odd years and support a government which has brought the rural industries to absolute ruin in a number of areas. He cannot deny that. The same can be said of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is interjecting now. The wine growers had to put a round turn around his neck so that he would realise where his own electorate was. But let me not digress to any great extent. 
I rose previously because the Bill imposes something on people and the 
Minister for Primary Industry was unable to reply in regard to it. I referred to the 5- year proposal and to a case in which a property was in joint names or in the name of the husband. I asked whether his widow could be called to account within 5 years. That is the period which was supported by members of the Government parties who all purport, with some degree of hypocrisy, to give consideration to primary industry generally. The fact is that there is nothing in this Bill to lead me to believe otherwise than that where the husband has died the widow can be called to account within a period of 3 years, as is now suggested, because perhaps unwittingly and innocently the husband did not fill out a form in the correct and prescribed manner. Any Bill, whether it is aimed at trade unionists, at any member of the public or, as in the case of this Bill, at rural industry, incurs my displeasure if that facet of justice does not even appear to be provided for. It is of no use for the honourable member for Mallee and his muttering comrades behind him to stand up in this chamber and say that the purpose of the Bill is to enable the Government to catch the smarties. Let me tell you.  Mr Chairman,  and honourable members on the Government side who want to include something in a Bill to catch up with the smarties: The people you are after are much smarter than you and you are not likely to catch them. 
To say, as does the honourable member for Mallee and his colleagues, that the industry will go to the wall unless this Bill is carried with a time limit of 5 years, as was intended some weeks ago but now reduced to 3 years, is so much rubbish. The Opposition's amendment should have been accepted when the Bill was before this chamber, but it was not. Will honourable members opposite stand up in this chamber tonight and try to justify the time limit of 3 years in which a prosecution may be launched just because they lost an argument in the Senate? The argument which prevailed in the Senate for reducing the time from 5 years to 3 years loses none of its force when applied to a case for reducing the time still further to 1 year. I know only too well that the honourable member for Angas is anxiously waiting to participate in this debate as soon as I have finished and say that he is the guardian and the angel of the dried fruits industry. That is not so.  His  halo may fall around his neck and perhaps - I will not say that it may - choke him. The fact is that the honourable member for Angas is likely to say that I know little or nothing about dried fruits. A person does not have to be a Rhodes scholar to hold a seat in this House. He knows what I am referring to. Honourable members on the Government side are not the sole guardians of anybody. They are extremely short sighted in relation to rural industries. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 'All right, we have 200,000 million bushels of wheat. We have nothing to worry about because we can sell it'. 
 In regard to clause 5 I presume it is the intention of the Government to do something about law and order because of the Government's own inadequacies in this field. One can realise what is happening here by looking at this Bill against the background of the actions of the Government and the misuse of a Government department during a peaceful Moratorium Campaign demonstration outside this House last year, as a result of which we had in this House some rather childish and emotional speeches by the former Deputy Prime Minister who is now not concerned with this matter, but who, prior to leaving this House, committed the Government to do something as a result of pressure from some small thinking back bench members of the Government. We have now a small Prime Minister and truculence is a characteristic of small people. 
I refer now to the clause under discussion, to the manner in which it has been presented and to the former Attorney-General's second reading speech. Magistrates generally will be required to try people in the community who are apprehended by the police and they will no doubt say: 'We are here, of course, to hear the submissions made on your behalf. We are not the legislators; we have not made the law. We are merely here to carry out the terms of the law in relation to punishment. They are guided then perhaps by the legislation itself and some may take it upon themselves to acquaint themselves with the second reading speech of the former Attorney-General. They may, of course, in their mad moments decide to read the second reading speech in which the former Attorney-General says: 
An assembly is defined . . . 
I support the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who corrected a previous  speaker  -  . . to mean an assembly of not less than 3 persons who are assembled for a common purpose, whether or not other persons are assembled with them and whether the assembly is at a particular place or moving. This follows in essence the common law concept of what is an assembly. 
As far as I am concerned there is no necessity for such a definition in this Bill at all.  Mr Chairman,  I know you will probably pull me up if I transgress and move away from this particular clause we are dealing with. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who made a second second reading speech in this House last night, complimented his colleague the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who made his maiden speech in the debate on this Bill because he was a legal eagle. That may be so, but coming down to common ground, we see the stupidity of this clause. Some lad, perhaps with long hair and dressed in the garb of the day for young people, may have entered the building which houses the Department of Labour and National Service in regard to a matter concerned with the National Service Act. He may have come out of the building to use the telephone and two more people may line up behind him in order to use the telephone. Under this Bill a policeman has the right to act in this regard. 
Do not try to push it down my throat, as the Attorney-General or any one of his colleagues may well try to do later in this chamber, and say that in fact the Government would not do that, because we have witnessed the result of demonstrations in this country, and I am not referring to the extreme type of demonstrations to which a reasonably minded citizen could object. I am referring to the demonstrators who in fact feel keenly and as a matter of conscience about the war in Vietnam. As a result of the stupidity of the Government in committing the young people of this nation to the war in Vietnam, some young, people feel that they ought to object to the war. As an ex-serviceman who has gone away to serve this country, I object to it too. But coming back more closely to the Bill, the Government here is providing the situation for legal persecution of members of the public who want to think that they ought to have the right to demonstrate. 
 Mr Chairman,  1 bad expected you to point that out to me much earlier. But as clause  3  had been discussed I wanted to make my point in regard to this question. What then is the difference in this? What is the difference in the remarks I have been making? Under the terms of this Bill the Government is providing for legal persecution of people who are going about what I and most reasonable members of the community would regard as a lawful pursuit and pursuing a lawful purpose. All right, I will not refer to the building in which the Department of Labour and National Service is housed; I will refer merely to a foreign legation or something of that sort. 
There is a public telephone near the South African Embassy. Tf one of the people who are standing outside that Embassy at the moment - it has been under surveillance by members of the public for a number of weeks as a result of what has happened and as a result of this Government's attitude to a number of matters that are now current so far as South Africa is concerned - walks into the telephone booth and if two of his mates or two innocent members of the public line up outside to use that telephone, will the Attorney-General stand up in this chamber and deny that under the terms of this Bill a policeman cannot grab them, once this Bill is passed by this Parliament? 
That is all right. The Government puts the onus of proof on the kid whom the policeman grabs. That is what it does. Then it puts the onus on the magistrate who is hearing the charge in a lower court of this country, tf the AttorneyGeneral tells me that there is any justice in the lower courts of this country, then I will agree with what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said a moment ago, that the Attorney-General has never stood in a lower court in this country for a great many years. Tf in fact he stood in them in his younger days he would have seen some of the people who front up in lower courts on Saturday mornings. Some of them appear in a most deplorable condition. I witnessed this in Adelaide only a few weeks ago and I felt ashamed. That is what the Government is doing in this country. It is putting the onus on the magistrate who in fact will take ;;s a guide this so-called legislation that is now before chamber. The Government is doing no more than that. 
The Attorney-General may get up and say that a young fellow has the right of appeal, that he has the right to go and get a legal eagle to represent him - he has a whole host of rights. But does he have these rights if he does not have the financial resources? If one can deduce that there is little or no justice in the lower courts and that there is justice only in the higher courts, one may add the rider that if one has sufficient finance one can avail oneself of the justice which may or may not exist iri the higher courts. I put it to the Attorney-General that the Government is here attempting to force through this chamber a Bill which I think. would have no parallel in the British Commonwealth of Nations. It is no good including in a second reading speech reference to the fact that this Bill replaces some aspects of British law going back to  1300.  I suggest to the Attorney-General that he ought to read The Rum Rebellion', if he has not read it, and then come back and relate it to what he is doing tonight. That is exactly as the matter stands, and I oppose the clause. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
I have earlier referred to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  as the molecule from Moreton. I thought he was a man of substance. The way he has been carrying on tonight in the last 10 minutes, I doubt that. He made the point tonight that honourable members on this side of the House are opposed to this clause of the Bill and demand that an individual ought to have further rights in regard to a charge and the right to be tried by his peers. The honourable member is a legal eagle, I understand. He makes his living from the unfortunates in the community who perhaps have to be defended against the laws or who declare themselves to be innocent and run the risk of being declared guilty in accordance with the procedures of the lower courts to which I have referred earlier in this debate. 
I direct the attention of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to this clause of the Bill. In the last 24 hours or so in America Vietnam veterans have been demonstrating in support of two senators in the American Senate who put forward the point of view that America should make more conclusive moves to be out of Vietnam by 31st December this year. I take it that these servicemen who have seen fit to cheer the senators would have been proceeded against under the terms of this Bill had they been in, near or about this building which I suppose could be referred to as Commonwealth property. I want to deal with clause 2 of the Bill which makes provision for a fine of $1,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or both. The Attorney-General did not get up and answer my queries about the previous clause. 
I think that the point made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is a valid one, that apart from the speech - if I can refer to it as such - of the honourable member for Moreton a few moments ago and the unlawful interjections from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  there has been no other contribution by honourable members opposite in this debate since the Bill reached the Committee stage. I have asked the AttorneyGeneral to clarify the terms of the Bill, the document that he is peddling through the House. 
You can keep quiet. Your turn will come next. If you want to enter the debate, then you do so. You were defended earlier tonight in this debate by one of your own colleagues who did not quite put the record straight in regard to what you had to say in this House a couple of weeks ago. 
I do not care what you say. That is the truth.  Mr Chairman,  I ask for a withdrawal if the remark passed was what I thought it was. Did you hear what he said,  Mr Chairman? 
I want to raise a matter- 
I thought that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  would speak for 10 minutes. 
The very thing I want to raise tonight is the manner in which Ministers seated at the table see fit to treat this House. 
Let me say to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is sitting at the table, that it would be very remiss for nobody in this House to rise to his feet and mention what happened recently during the course of a debate. What I am about to say may shock the Minister because he may not have been in the House at the time the incident I wish to mention occurred. Some words were directed to an honourable member on the Opposition side of the House who was addressing his remarks to the House in the course of a debate. I feel quite sure that the words were heard by the then occupant of the Chair. The words used were that the person addressing the House was an arrogant bastard. 
The words were that he was a Com lover. 
These are the words. 
No, I am not quoting from Hansard. 
I will come to that in a moment,  Mr Speaker,  if I may. 
I am repeating the words I heard from where I sit in the chamber. They were that the honourable member speaking was a Com lover, that he was an arrogant so-and-so, and other words to this effect. The words were directed to the honourable member over a considerable period of time and then the person responsible made a gesture of spitting on the floor of this chamber. What I say is true. It happened during the course of the debate in this House last night. I will not name anybody. During the course of a division more than harsh words were spoken but they went over my head. They did not refer to me. But the fact is that during a debate in this House yesterday these words were uttered by an honourable member who holds a portfolio in the Government and who was sitting at the ministerial table because that was his rostered position or because the Bill being debated had something to do with his portfolio. That Minister carried on in the manner I have described. These are very strong words to have to use. I am somewhat further removed from where the Minister is at the moment sitting than is the occupant of the chair, yet I heard the words. I heard these remarks and I am quite sure that they must have been heard by the then occupant of the Chair. 1 want to know,  Mr Speaker,  what means are available to me, as a member of this House, to move for the suspension of the person concerned. It is obvious that nobody on the Government side of the chamber would move for his suspension because this person was not named. I am now making very serious allegations. That is why I would appreciate your advice,  Sir, as  to how this matter can be brought before the House. The person concerned made some form of a belated apology by saying that he was in fact somewhat emotional at the time. I am sure that he was not as emotional as the person who was speaking at the time. I was somewhat reluctant,  Mr Speaker,  in view of certain rulings which have been given in this House and in view of the fact that you might rule me out of order, to say what was the subject of the debate which was ensuing at the time that these remarks were made. However, I point out that the remarks were made during a debate this afternoon and the Minister who was at the table later left the chamber. In view of the allegations I have made against the occupant of the Chair at the time of the debate, I think this matter ought to be investigated. I hope that you will advise me,  Mr Speaker,  as to the manner in which I can have this matter investigated by the House because I seriously believe that it should have been brought to the attention of the House immediately these words were uttered and the person concerned spat on the floor of the chamber. Everything I have mentioned was clearly audible and visible to me and must have been clearly audible and visible to the then occupant of the Chair. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 desire to direct a question to you. You will recall that during the course of the adjournment debate last night I raised a matter concerning the conduct of a Minister when he was at the table. At that time I was unable to refer to this because of the debate that ensued in this chamber last night. Therefore, I ask: Have you been able to have the matter of the conduct of a Country Party Minister who was in charge of the House last night investigated? If so, what action is to be taken in regard to the shocking - 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has now confirmed as being true the report which appeared in the daily Press of an address given by him to the Young Country Party over the weekend. He told the House tonight that the subject matter of that address was chosen for him. Having spoken as he did at the conference about Great Britain it seems odd that tonight he should have attempted to make some belated sort of apology by saying that he did not insult the British people. After insulting the British people it does not seem appropriate of him to recall their stand during the war. I suppose something can be said for the honourable member for seeing fit tonight to make some amends for his wrongdoings insulting the people who stood alone during part of the world conflict from 1939 to 1945. No nation came to Great Brtain's assistance, not even the United States of America, I might remind the honourable member, until its shores were violated by Japan. Therefore, it seems very odd to me that he should attack Britain for the role it played during the Second World War rather than the United States for the role it played. 
I also want to make some reference tonight to some of the speeches that have been made in this House, particularly that made by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who is not now in the chamber. He made an insulting speech tonight when he accused honourable members on this side of the House over their actions in relation to China. I have noticed in Hansard that a recently deceased member of this House once referred to the Chinese coolies as the greatest race of people on earth. Although his attitudes towards China later changed, he at no time moved away from the opinion he held at the time he made that statement that China was a great nation of people. I was appalled tonight to hear the honourable member for Lyne attack church organisations in this country for their attitude to Africa. While I will say a great deal about it, I thought it was odd that a minister of religion should carry on in such a manner. 
Honourable members opposite have the temerity to hold up Taiwan as a classic example of democracy. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  recently in this House championed the cause of Taiwan. How much longer do honourable members intend to sit in this chamber and make such misleading statements about Taiwan? Why do they not tell the House and everybody who might be listening and record in Hansard that there has been no election in Taiwan since 1948? They can do nothing other than agree with what I have said. Taiwan, under a corrupt regime, would be one of the most ground down nations in the world. How long can honourable members listen to the rubbish - 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put; 
That the question be now put. 
I would like to know what honourable members opposite are groaning about already. I rise to speak in rauch the same vein as did the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  because 1 also recollect that the Government, in moving its amendment, bowed to a political party which is not even represented in this chamber. When dealing with a Bill on the dried fruits industry recently the Government would not even recognise an amendment moved by the Opposition providing for a period of one year instead of 5 years. It is no good the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  standing up here and bleating about the fact that he supported the 5 -year period. He spoke in support of it. The Government now seeks to amend this Bill to provide for a period of 3 years, after the Democratic Labor Party and others in the Senate had jogged its memory about what happened in regard to the dried fruits legislation. But I would remind the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  while he is doodling on his pad at the table that I directed a question to him in connection with a similar provision in the dried fruits legislation which was recently before the House. 
I asked him what position would apply where an offence had been committed under a joint ownership and the husband was now deceased and some 3 years after his death the Department decided that there was something wrong with one of the returns that these farmers, pig breeders or whatever you want to call them have to make. 
I was looking across the other side of the House at the time I was thinking about them, but the fact is that the Minister was not. able to answer my question at . the time the Bill went through. I am on my feet now because I wish to protect widows who might get bit by a penalty of $200 some 3 years after their husbands have died. The Minister is supposed to be a responsible Minister so why can he not inform the House whether I am correct in my assumption or not? I would be happy to know one way or the other. It has not been spelt out in the Bill and that is why 1 am on my feet. I think that is wrong. I support the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Dawson and I want to remind my nearest neighbour in this place, the honourable member for Mallee, that he cannot have a dollar "each way on this. Either he is for what is in fact an infliction of a form of pains and penalties on the pig producer over and above what can be considered fair, or he is not. I cannot see how he can take any valid objection to the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson for mentioning that the Crimes Act, which covers more serious offences, did not have this type of provision in it. I am not saying that there should not be some punishment provision in the Bill, but I do not believe that it should go on for 3 years or that it should be inflicted on innocent people because of a business arrangement or business partnership.  Mr Chairman,  I think that the Minister should stand up in this place and inform the chamber accordingly. 
That is right. In many cases it is less than half. The honourable member for Macquarie mentioned what the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation does to help promote a range of manufactured articles which are produced from raw materials in this country and which are never put on the market here. Manufacturers have displayed their capabilities, but the Government does not want to recognise those capabilities or the products that are produced. Carpet is one item. The sale of more Australian carpets could assist the wool industry. But nothing is done about it. I could raise this matter in the House until I was blue in the face. Whatever one says in this place, the Government plays politics with it. People are not important to members on the Government side. Politics are important to members on the Government side. They accuse us continually of playing politics. From time to time, on a measure such as the one before us I could ask all kinds of questions about a whole host of subjects and the Minister would not answer me. However, on occasions this Government has passed legislation that compels a trade union to account for every cent it has spent. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has the right to demand to examine the balance sheet of a trade union. The Government does not accord similar rights to members such as the honourable member for Perth who, as he said earlier tonight, represents 100,000 people. 
The Government has its priorities completely wrong. The Government today is spending and wasting millions of dollars to create frustration and God knows what else in countries such as Indo-China. Such action is absolutely wrong unless it is put to the people of this country at a referendum. This Government has been returned to office in this place time after time with the support of 22 members from a small party which at a Federal election obtained only 8 per cent of the total votes cast. These members represent country electorates. The Country Party is given 5 positions in the whole of the Ministry so that the Government may say that it has a mandate from the people to squander millions of dollars. The Government has not that right democratically. It has not that right on principle. I would suggest further that the Government has not the moral right to do so. But the Government continues to do this. 
It has been almost 10 years since, in this country, a Prime Minister stood on his feet - I suppose that if I said that he lied to the electorate, you would want to pull me up,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If he was nol a liar - and I do not suggest that he was a liar - he most certainly stretched the word ambiguity' to great lengths, in relation to the amount of money that has been wasted by this Government - allegedly required by it - in respect of so-called defence matters. At the same time, one might stand here and say again that the Government had squandered millions of dollars on the Fill and point out how many schools and hospitals this money could have provided. All these things have been said in this place before. I do not want to repeat them at this stage. 
I do ask the Government this question: In excess of $ 1,000m has been spent each year on defence. What can be honestly offered to the people of this country as a result of that expenditure? What has the Government in the way of forces and equipment to defend this country as a result of this tremendous amount of expenditure that has been going on almost since the Government has been in office? I am not saying that we should not appropriate money for expenditure on defence requirements. I am not saying that at all. What I am saying is that the Government's whole system of priorities is wrong. 
I turn my attention to the field of national health. Under the National Health Act, a man who earns the minimum wage or below is entitled to certain benefits. He can have what could be described as a sort of free ride' on medical benefits. The Government extends these benefits to those who receive up to $48 a week or $49 a week. I think that one of those figures represents the level now. At the same time, the health benefits that the Government provides for aged persons in this country are inadequate. 
I put my argument to the House in this way: An age pensioner on the maximum rate may have a personal fear that he or she should cover himself or herself in respect of hospital charges by joining a medical benefits fund because public ward accommodation may not always be available when required. The maximum pension rate is below $40 a week. The Government does not extend to such people the benefits available to a person in receipt of the minimum wage. That is what the honourable members opposite do. They should not just sit there. They should say something. They do not and cannot deny this. This is where honourable members opposite and the Government have their priorities completely balled up, if I may use that term. This is why I accused the Government of having double standards. 
I only wish that I had 40 minutes and not 20 minutes to speak in this debate. It is nearly half past one in the morning. I end on this note: The Government, plays politics in this House whenever it can, no matter who is involved. The mothers who are bearing children today receive the same birth allowance as their dear mothers received 20 years ago. The Government introduced that allowance to win seats in this House. Honourable members on the other side of the House have completely, utterly and hypocritically forgotten about it. That is another point that I bring to the attention of this Government. 
I challenge any honourable member opposite to rise in this place next week and to indicate that something constructive will be done with respect to constitutional review. A committee should be set up to study constitutional review so that the Government may arm itself - without using accusations of centralism and God knows what other terms - with sufficient powers for the good of the nation. Whether this proposal is accepted or rejected finally is by the way. For the good of the nation we ought to examine whether or not additional powers should be granted to the Commonwealth because this would be for the betterment of the people and the development of the country generally. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The motion that the House do now adjourn has been moved tonight somewhat earlier than I anticipated. I desire during the course of the debate on this motion to speak about a speech that was made in the House on Tuesday, 27th April 1971, by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  The honourable member made one of the most disgraceful speeches that I have ever heard in this House. I should think that those honourable members opposite who are honest enough will agree with the view of honourable members on this side of the House that his speech was disgraceful. I understand that the honourable member is a minister of religion himself. He stood in this chamber last week and condemned the World Council of Churches over its deliberations in the United Kingdom and its report on the facts in South Africa as it saw them. The World Council of Churches made a pronouncement against apartheid and, in addition, the Smith regime in Rhodesia. During the course of his speech the honourable member referred to the British people in a somewhat similar vein to that in which another member of the Australian Country Party referred to the people of the United Kingdom during the course of  an  earlier speech. If I may, I would like to quote the words used by the honourable member for Lyne. 
I have in front of me the Hansard report of the speech made by the honourable member for Lyne. He said that the British people had changed their character and that there was something wrong with them. The honourable member went on to say that he thought their attitude to Rhodesia was disgraceful. He went on to say that the people of Great Britain had more or less gone around the whole world appealing to the lower elements of the world to support the British Labour Party's policy towards Rhodesia. He inferred that Wilson was a liar and a scoundrel all along. The honourable member should have made sure of his facts before going off in the manner in which he did because, at about the time that he was making his speech, reports of some of the meetings that had occurred between  Mr Wilson,  the then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and  Mr Smith  of Rhodesia were being published in various London newspapers. These reports show quite clearly that, if there was any liar or scoundrel insofar as the negotiations were concerned, it was Smith, who had gone so far as to advise the then Prime Minister of Australia,  Sir Robert  Menzies, that he had not and could not meet the British Prime Minister over the matter of Rhodesia and independence when he had in fact done so. A further illustration of the type of person Smith was, and is, is the fact that later on the vessel HMS Tiger', on which the whole of the differences should have been resolved, Smith adopted much the same attitude. 
I also want to make some reference to the fact that, during the course of his speech, the honourable member for Lyne described Ramsay MacDonald as being the great British boneless wonder. Honourable members on this side of the House have no quarrel with the honourable member on that aspect because of the fact that at the time Ramsay MacDonald forsook his principles - at the time he forgot where he came from and he joined the Tory Party - he was regarded as the boneless wonder of the United Kingdom. I draw the attention of the honourable member for Lyne to the fact that he belongs to a political party  of  similar complexion to that to which Ramsay MacDonald belonged at the time he was referred to as a boneless wonder. It seems to me that during the course of the last 2 weeks the Country Party - at least 2 of its most senior members, at any rate - has taken it upon itself to attack the British people. 
The honourable member for Lyne went on to say, during the' course of his attack on the British people, that he had done a short turn in Rhodesia in an air training corps and it was a wonderful place. He must have a short memory if he thinks that things have not changed in Rhodesia since he was there over 20 years ago under an Empire air training scheme. If the honourable member wants to condemn the World Council of Churches it is his business, but I would point out to him that in condemning the Work) Council of Churches he is supporting the 10 hangings or so a week that go on in South Africa where the lives of many people are being snuffed out at the end of a rope. The honourable member even went so far in his speech as to condone the Sharpeville massacre by saying that the murder of scores of people at Sharpeville was more or less justified because a group of people was endeavouring to bring about the overthrow of the government of that country. That is just so much rot. If the honourable member is so imbued with those views he is entitled to them, but at the same time he is entitled to be well and truly condemned- for them and told that he is wrong and completely out of step with the majority of world opinion, expressed when sanctions -vere imposed on Rhodesia because of the manner in which the Smith regime came to power in that country. 
I turn to another subject which should be of concern to the House, namely, the question of Army standards. If I had known that the adjournment debate was coming on so soon 1 would have informed the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  that I was going to mention this matter. I refer to an article that appeared in a Western Australian newspaper on 28th April to the effect that the Department of the Army was soon to meet to consider medical standards generally. I have raised in this House on a previous occasion the question of Army standards. I was not aware that another complaint similar to the one I had mentioned, had been drawn to the Minister's attention. On an earlier occasion I drew his attention to the most unfortunate death of a soldier of my electorate who had been inducted into the Army. After going through a number of medical board examinations and what-have-you this person was finally declared to be fit. Apparently the reviewing authority of the Army is such that it can veto completely medical examinations which have been conducted by medical boards which consisted of 2, 3 and in some cases 4 medical officers. One would think that, because of the fact that in some of the regulations the plural is used, the reviewing authority would consist of a number of doctors. One would think that, if a person is being examined as to whether he is physically fit, from the point of view of his eyesight, there would be an opthalmologist or a specialist in that field on the reviewing authority. Apparently this is not always the case. 
It pleases me to see - I do hope that the report in the Western Australian newspaper is correct - that Army standards are to be reviewed for a number of reasons. I would like to ascertain from the Minister whether what has happened in Vietnam with regard to standards is the reason for the review. At the same time, I would like also to state in this House that it is not good enough that the reviewing authority should consist only of a person who, although he may be a specialist in a particular field of medicine, is not a specialist in the field which he is considering. I do not think that such a person should be able to veto specialist medical advice on a subject on which he has not a great deal of medical knowledge. 
In addition we have the situation that the Department of Labour and National Service carries out the initial examination. Apparently all sorts of things happen in this regard. Once the Department of Labour and National Service has secured the body in the ballot, has expressed an opinion that he is fit and sends him on to the Army, it seems to me that there is reluctance on the part of the Service, after having carried out a second and subsequent medical examination, to make a correct medical decision of fitness or otherwise that would indicate that the medical examination carried out by the Department of Labour and National Service was wanting in a number of respects. I conclude on that note. I hope that the honourable member for Lyne will rise in this debate later on in the evening and correct some of the shocking statements he made in this House at approximately this time last week. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to provide that the House continue to sit for the next 2 weeks to enable proper consideration to be given to outstanding legislation on the notice paper. 
-I have waited for some considerable time for a situation such as this to arise in this House. I was quite confident that it would because of the stupidity with which matters have been brought before the House. Although I have felt ever since I came into this Parliament that the procedures of the House were somewhat inhibiting, I have come to recognise them; but I did not feel that I would see the day when the Government would introduce into this place at such a time the guillotine - a measure which will prevent proper and considered discussion of a number of Bills that are now before this House. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who is not in this chamber at the moment, has to recognise that on this side of the House there are representatives of almost, if not in excess of, 6 million people. We on this side of the House regard ourselves as having an equal right at least - and I say that with some reservations - to debate the measures which affect the community and the welfare of this country which is so sadly and shockingly neglected by those who sit on the Government benches. I would need  21/2  hours to point out to honouraoble members opposite how dismally they have failed in regard to social welfare, education and defence, you name it. One can pronounce judgment against the Government on a whole host of matters. 
The situation that has arisen this afternoon, as has already been mentioned by some Government members, is shocking. If any type of organisation, sporting, industrial, business or any other type said: 'We propose to do this and you are not allowed to speak', a meeting of its members would be called. The Government will stand up against a trade union organisation and demand that legislation be passed so that the people have a voice; yet it will not let members of Parliament have a proper voice in this House. The fact is, and correct me if I am wrong, that it is not beyond the bounds of possibilities that, despite the limited time permitted under the motion which has just been passed, one of the Whips on the Government side will get up and move the gag. The gag has been applied this afternoon in the most disgusting manner by the Government doing no more than look at the clock in the House or at somebody's wrist watch. There has been no Government member in this House at all apart from the occupant of the Chair, the Minister at the table and the  Deputy  Whip, or whatever he calls himself, who was so recently interjecting. There was not one other Government member in the House during the debate on matters put before this Parliament, and yet they see fit to walk in and apply the gag. 
The architect of this situation is the Prime Minister who has nothing more than a small toy to play with. This is the way he wants to regard this Parliament. It is time somebody gave him a do it yourself kit if that is his attitude. I can very well suggest what he should be given in reply to that attitude. Here is a man who not so many weeks ago sat before the television cameras. One would have thought, if one was ignorant or innocent, call it what you like, that this man may have had some credibility in view of what he had to say on television. He was going to be the upholder of Parliament and of the rights of members. He criticised what his own Party has been indulging in for some years prior to his election as Prime Minister. But now he has completely forgotten that. We had a measure in this House, which has now been adjourned for some time, dealing with quorums. I bitterly opposed the measure and will continue to oppose it in this House. It will mean that the number required for a quorum of the House could be jammed into a telephone box. I opposed it and all the measures which were put before this House when we had a so-called free debate on the matter. 
What the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said this afternoon is true. We new members who wanted to alter the procedures of the Parliament can see what has happened. What he said was very true indeed. I would also like to say that, as to some of the measures the Government has on the notice paper, what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in regard to them is true. The measure in relation to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is one. It was introduced in October last year and, although there was a suggestion finally that a committee be set up to investigate it, the Government does not want Opposition members and for that matter, possibly back bench members on the Government side to debate it. Honourable members apposite should be standing on this side of the House on this issue if they had any backbone at all. They have no rights now. They sold their rights down the drain when they voted for the guillotine measure. I have never been associated with any organisation that did not provide for some form of expression for its members. It does not matter a darn what number the Parliament sets for a quorum when the Government introduces measures like this and gives the people no voice whatever. The Government is introducing Bills involving the expenditure of vast sums of money. I am now informed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that a number of Bills have been left out. Some of them, of course, relate to measures on which the Government has been active. The legislation concerning the Continental Shelf has already been mentioned. Was that not the measure which nearly brought the Government to its knees last year? The Government raced it through the corridors. It had a special plane bring the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  to Canberra. It had VIP aircraft flying all over the place. The Government was almost brought down. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was addressing myself to the motion that I have moved seeking the suspension of Standing Orders. I resume my speech now with some 13 minutes remaining. I hope that the Government does not apply the gag to me now as it has done so often in recent weeks. One of the reasons why I have moved the motion that I have is the fact that I and my colleagues on this side of the House are more than alarmed at the fact that members of this Parliament probably will be informed only by way of the. Press as to how this country is to be run in the ensuing months during the winter adjournment. 
The fact is that Press statements within the last few days have suggested that the Australian National Line will be sold. Will we return to this Parliament for the Budget session in August - that is when the resumption of Parliament is scheduled at present - to learn that, through the machinations of Ministers and certain exclusive clubs in Melbourne, the Government has connived to dispose of the Australian National Line which is owned by the people of the Commonwealth? Will the Government carry out ; similar actions to those carried out in the late 1920s? Surely to goodness this Parliament ought to be able to expect to be treated in a manner somewhat different from that. 
In addition to that, I can no more than surmise that the Government is so bereft of speakers on the issues confronting the country today or its members are so lax that no Government speakers have taken part in the important debate which took place in this chamber this afternoon. That debate this afternoon ought to have been the concern of the Government. Not one Government member rose to his feet to address the chamber in regard to the legislation before the House providing for the appointment of an additional Minister and in regard to the Ministerial statement foreshadowing the appointment of under secretaries, junior ministers or Assistant Ministers - call them what we will - who will receive huge expense accounts. During the course of the winter recess there is not one Minister in this place - and all Ministers draw very high salaries - who will not be sitting in black limousines in cities from one end of the country to the other and who will pay no regard whatsoever to the problems facing the Australian people generally. - Today, yesterday and in weeks and months gone by, we have heard Government members - that is, those who are permitted by the dictatorship that prevails on the other side of the House to speak - saying all along the line that the trade union movement today is responsible for all the evils afflicting this country. I mention rural industries. 1 only wish that those people who sit in the comer to my left and who represent rural industries would move to the left politically. But they are not likely to do that. They are crying out that the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement are the cause of the ills in our rural industries. They have had a continuity of office which unfortunately has lasted in this country for in excess of 20 years. How much longer do they think that they can go on hoodwinking the people? 
The fact is that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  is dictated to by a Prime Minister who has been a short time in office. This Prime Minister treats the House in a manner of absolute truculence. I might add that truculence is usually a characteristic of small people. The Prime Minister continues to deride honourable members on this side of the House on almost every measure that we see fit to debate here. 
Because of its muddled way of thinking, the Government is completely and absolutely unaware of the present situation in this country. It has introduced into the House a measure known as the 'guillotine'. Most people associate a guillotine with a revolution, but there is nothing revolutionary in the mind of the Government - nothing at ali! Why the Government should wish to apply the term 'guillotine' to its action is somewhat beyond me. 
The fact is that the Government is denying to honourable members on this side of the House the right to debate the issues concerning the electorate. The Government seeks to push into the background anybody who wishes to stand in this place, in a university or at a school and put forward views at any type of public meeting. Whether there are young people in the streets who want to demonstrate or whatever the situation may be, the Government comes down on the side of criticism of their action. It does so with almost absolute and positive hate. The Government is not looking at the issues as they exist today. If is not reading the signs today. 
The fact is that the Government will be run over by the younger generation of this country, as it ought to be run over. This will be because of the fact that the Government will not recognise that people other than its own members and those who support it have any right to think or to have a mind of their own. Provided we in this place when we stand up follow the modest attitude of the Government and the moderate attitude adopted by it - my way of describing an attitude as moderate is to refer to an attitude in which the Government will not move in any way, shape or form- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! 
-. . . but will- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I expected you to say that 3 minutes or  4  minutes ago. Let us look at some of the measures that the Government has not the courage to debate in this Parliament at this time. The Government has not the courage to say that Parliament will continue to sit for the next 2 weeks, 3 weeks or  4  weeks to debate these matters. I mention first the Continental Shelf (Living National 
Resources) Bill which, as I said before the sitting was suspended, is the Bill which' almost sent the Government to the wall. At the time when this Bill was before the House last year Government Ministers were running up and down the corridors adjacent to this Parliamentary chamber to try to prevail upon the then Prime Minister, the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  to show some courage in his attitude. This is more than I can say for many other honourable members on the opposite side of the House. Those Government Ministers were endeavouring for hours during the course of that day to prevail upon the then Prime Minister to drop that legislation. What does this Bill seek to do? It seeks to:  . . establish the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to exercise sovereign control over the resources of the sea bed off the Australian coast from the low water mark to the outer limits of the Continental Shelf. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, as this was said to be such a vital matter, how much longer are we expected to sit here without even looking at the Bill? If you. are going to use the forms of this House - outdated and outmoded as those forms may be - to push the issue aside forever and a day and then to bury it because you have not the courage, and the Government Parties have not the courage to bring it forward because you are frightened of divisions without your own ranks- 
Another thing,  Mr Deputy Speaker- 
I thought that I was making the point that the Parliament is not doing anything. That is the reason why I am on my feet. Not only yourself - that is not a reflection on yourself and the Chair- 
Now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this only reflects the position that I have been driven into as an elected member of this Parliament. I have had to rise in a manner, in which I have risen this evening. 
It is not rot. I would remind the honourable member for Angas that he has moved the gag against mc personally some 30-odd times since my election to this place. He has probably moved the gag against honourable members on this side of the House in excess of 130 times. I am on my feet for the very reason that I am asking, almost pleading, that the elected members of this Parliament - not just those whose votes support the Government - be given the right to bring matters before this House and to have those matters debated. 
The Fisheries Bill 1971 is another Bill on the Notice Paper. What is it designed to do? Where is the courage of the Government? Does it wish to continue to push this Bill under the carpet? In introducing this Bill, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  said: 
This Bill is the culmination of the review of the Government's fisheries legislation ... to provide more adequate machinery for the management of Australian fisheries, as found necessary in the light of their spectactular growth in recent years. 
Another Bill that the Government wishes to pass by and to push aside is the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971. Debate on this Bill is long overdue: Is the reason why the Government does not bring this Bill on for debate because the Government wishes to continue with the present electoral set up in Australia which favours a system which elects to this Parliament 22 members of 1 Party which, at the last Federal election, across the length and breadth of the Commonwealth, polled less than 8 per cent of the total vote? Ought not the Government to stand condemned that, in common with other measures, this Bill has remained on the notice paper for as long as I have been a member of this Parliament? This subject has been aired in the Parliament. The machinery of this Parliament has been prostituted by members of the Government in order to deny to members of this Parliament their right to debate this Bill. And you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  wonder why I am irate. 
I am irate because of the situation faced by young people today in respect of housing. How much longer will the Government allow land speculators to continue to operate? How much longer will the Government permit interest rates to increase - for ever, and ever and ever? - loading on to the shoulders of these young people a burden that is intolerable? There is a proposal regarding the nomination of senators. What has the Government to fear in regard to this measure which has for its purpose the recognition of the right of people living in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to elect a person to the Senate of this Parliament? Thousands of people are being completely and utterly ignored. 
Where is the courage of this Government which wants to scurry away from this place this week? Members' on the Government side want to scurry away from the House this week because they believe it is not good politics to have the House sitting when the Government parties are in such disarray, protected as they are by the media and the Packer Press. I should like to have something to say about that matter if you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would permit me, but as I would not be permitted to do so, I will not go on with that. Honourable members opposite will scurry away and have no really sincere reason for doing so. The Prime Minister comes into the chamber when it suits him to do so. I know he has some responsibilities. Probably he considers it his greatest responsibility to mend the gaps that exist in his Party. The fact is that at question time in the House we have only a heap of Dorothy Dix questions that he and his parliamentary colleagues have sat around a table and worked out. I believe that makes a mockery of question time which I describe - and I think this is very apt - as a time for questions without answers and for discussion by the Prime Minister and Ministers. It is the right of Opposition members to expect that their questions will have some regard paid to them. 
Another Bill before the House is the House of Representatives (Quorum) Bill. In the dying stages of last session when this Bill came before the House I had something to say on it just before the din ner adjournment. It is a fact that when this House is not in session the Government consists of 13 Cabinet members. I am not exaggerating when I say that they could be jammed into a telephone box. If there were many of the size of the Prime Minister they could probably be jammed into an area half that size.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is just not good enough that when the House is not sitting some 13 people can deal with the problems that confront this country, matters that should be brought before the House, and govern 12 million people, putting out Press releases every now and again after having had those releases written for them by members of their staffs. 
I conclude on this note. Government members may say 'Hear, hear'; it is hard to get through to them. They come into the House each morning for prayers. I cannot do that while the Government can send kids to Vietnam to be slaughtered and while it can cause a country such as Cambodia to be put in the situation into which it has been put. Government members should support the motion before the House so that they cannot be accused of turning their backs on the people and the interests of this country. This House will be allowed less time to debate the Trade Practices Bill than Government members have spent in criticising Bob Hawke. Government members said that legislation to control resale price maintenance could not be implemented, as it would be unlawful. Now, somewhat reluctantly, the Government is introducing such legislation. The Government should be condemned for ever and a day for not having paid regard to the way in which housewives of this country have been taken down at the cash registers. 
 The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who has just resumed his seat, saw fit to go through the time lost on the water front through strikes over a great period of time. He completely confused himself because he does not understand lost manhours, strikes, stoppages and whathaveyou. So I do not feel that I should dwell for any great length of time on what the honourable member for Denison has said other than to say in criticism of him that during the course of his speech he said that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  had a greater knowledge of the measure before the House than he had. I suppose that was the truest part of his speech. It is obvious from his speech that he knows little or nothing about the waterfront and the things associated with it, its history or anything else. Coming from the political background that he does, that does not surprise rae. He probably has never had reason or cause to listen to a battler's argument or point of view. Therefore he is not able to inject into this debate anything real in relation to the problems of the industry. 1 would like to draw his attention to the remarks in the second reading speech ot the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in introducing the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill. For his benefit I will quote what the Minister said if the honourable member has not already read it. The Minister said: 
On the credit side it is fair to say that the technological changes which have occurred in the stevedoring and shipping industries since 1967 have been achieved with the co-operation of the Waterside Workers Federation. 
I pause to say that if it were not for this co-operation the industry could be in a vastly different position from the position it is in today. I have some personal and firsthand knowledge of what happened during the period from 1965 to 1967. If the honourable member for Denison will pay attention for a short time, I will point out to him that members of his Party introduced into this Parliament in which he is sitting now some of the most vicious industrial legislation that has ever been put on the statute book against any trade union in this Commonwealth. The intention of that legislation was that the trade union movement should cause more friction and more industrial strife on the waterfront so that the Government could have an election on that score. But what the Government did not foresee was the emergence of discussions and round table conferences which, at a very vital time when the industry was about to change drastically, meant real benefit to the country as a whole. The Minister further stated: 
This is in clear contrast to the experience oi certain overseas countries where the stevedoring employees strongly resisted the introduction of new techniques. 
I hope that this has sunk through to the honourable member for Denison. I will not quote further from the second reading speech of the Minister, but I suggest that before the honourable member for Denison criticises the union he should at least acquaint himself with the views of his own Minister. 
The measure before the House, as has been said by the honourable member for Newcastle, is designed to increase charges generally in respect of the employment of waterside workers. I will be brief in my remarks tonight because I do not think there is a great deal to which to reply. But I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the position generally within the industry has improved vastly over the last few years, and had it not been for the Waterside Workers Federation and the Woodward conferences, as they turned out to be, as I said a few moments ago, the industry could be in a vastly worse position than it now is and in a worse position than a lot of the countries that the Minister referred to in his second reading speech. The industry, of course, is not out of its problems today. It is all very well for the honourable member for Denison to talk about maximum wage rates in some ports and to pay no regard to those areas within the responsibility of the Federation that are not so fortunate. The Federation is a trade union which down through the years has held sacrosanct the protection of its members irrespective of whether they be in A, B or C class ports. The industry still has its problems in regard to a number of ports where the weekly take home pay of the waterside workers is much less - indeed far less - than that of waterside workers in the major and capital ports. Unless they work a time which gives them the right to a guaranteed wage they get no such guaranteed wage. Such ports still exist in Australia. I suggest to the honourable member for Denison that he should perhaps get a copy of the union's latest publication on this and he will see the ports spelt out. If my memory serves me correctly, he will find that some Tasmanian ports are listed, although I would not be sure. The industry still faces many problems because this Government has not taken sufficient notice of the trade union movement within the industry for almost  10  years - if not  10  years, at least  8  years - in regard to the programme it set out for the introduction of containerisation. Members in this House have heard me on frequent occasions direct my remarks to that matter. 
Containerisation has meant a costly burden on the general taxpayer and on the industry itself. It has meant that fewer jobs are available to the members of the union. I personally held a very strong view when I was actively associated with the organisation - I still hold the view - that if it is good enough over the years for the private shipping companies and ship owners to take from the Australian taxpayer and the export income of this country the maximum amount possible - this has always been spelt out in what the traffic can bear - it is good enough for that industry at least to offer compensation to members who are surplus in the industry or who leave it because of their age or who make a conscientious decision to leave the industry. Containerisation is not the last word in change in the industry. Let me quote this article: 
LASH - Lighter Aboard Ship - has proved successful in American ports and 500-ton ship cranes will be plopping barges into Australian harbor waters next year. 
Nervous duckings must be heard in the board rooms of shipping companies who put all their eggs in the container basket 
Spyros S. Skouras Junior, multi-millionaire President of Prudential-Grace Lines, which has sunk millions into a USA LASH fleet, thinks LASH will become the world's most important ocean transport system in the 1970s. 
He sees LASH ships from European seas dropping their barges in US East Coast ports, to be transhipped from there to Latin America, the US West Coast and the Far East. 
Transhipment of barges from one LASH ship to another is easy, and 'all continents will be linked in a giant global transportation system.' 

 Mr Skouras claims 'the economies to be realised through this system are staggering.' 
WITH the LASH challenge to be met next year the Conference Lines are already under threat because of escalating container freight charges, beyond the capacity of key export industries like wool to pay, the movement of meat exports back to conventional ships and the loss of much of the fruit trade to non-Conference companies. 
Also, the Europeans' ro-ro ships are proving their worth and conventional ships that combine various cargoes- old-style general, utilised and container  -  refuse to become obsolete. 
Wool represents at least one-third of northbound container cargoes: if wool goes to contract non-Conference shippers- likely ' in view of the wool industry's inability to pay current freights - 
Imposed on them by the private shipping companies I have referred to earlier - the container consortia are in mortal trouble. 
We can't crystal-ball gaze, but it could be that the cellular ail-container ships, representing hundreds of millions in capital investment on sea and land, will have shorter lives than their owners and Australian Liberal-Country Party sponsors anticipated. 
Honourable members might recall that 1 said in this House only a few days ago that we might see a shocking situation in this country - if the people have not the good sense to change the government and kick the present Government out of office, where it should be - with the Government bleeding the taxpayers and inflicting further burdens on those who produce the primary products which supply the trades for the container consortia. The combination of companies has spent millions and millions of dollars on this project. Within the next 12 months, we could see the first arrival of ships of the type I have just referred to, which will make them obsolete. This is the type of thinking the Government should be adopting in regard to this measure. This is what it should be concerning itself with insofar as the union movement is concerned in this area. 
If the LASH vessels come into being there could be further problems in the industry as far as redundancy is concerned. I remind the House that some few weeks ago I raised the question of redundancy of workers generally throughout the Commonwealth. We are likely to face the situation in the next 5 years where tens of thousands of people will become unemployed in industries such as the one about which we are speaking tonight, in the clerical field and what have you. My condemnation of the Government on this aspect is well known in the House and I do not see fit to embark on it once again. 
Slowly but surely over the last few years we have seen not only the trade union movement but others opposed to it in the industry showing real signs of concern. At last they have heeded the voice of the trade union movement as to what has been happening almost since the first days of trading in Australia. Their voices are raised in protest at the actions of the Government in aligning itself with the Conference Lines and coming into this House and saying that it bought in because it wanted to have an Australian voice in the Conference Lines. There was no such voice. Recently there was a 'Four Corners' programme on this matter and one fellow from Melbourne, whom I will not name here, said: 
I am very concerned that unfortunately we have not our own ships, our own merchant navy. We are subject to prices and conditions laid down by the Conference Lines where we as Australians have absolutely no influence. 
This is quite contrary, is it not, to what was said by the former Minister for Trade and Industry who vacated this place of his own volition some months ago and who hoodwinked this House for some years over the benefits to Australia of the ANL vessels. I am not saying that Australia should not have its own fleet. We should have retained the one which we had and which was sold out by a Liberal government in the late 1920s and early 1930s. I am very worried today because during the last week, as was mentioned in an earlier speech tonight, we have had a so-called responsible Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  going around the more select clubs in this country hawking the national shipping line. That is just not good enough in any day and age, particularly in 1971. 
I conclude my remarks on a note of criticism of the Government in regard to its action in these matters and its complete and utter misunderstanding of industrial relations generally. I draw its attention to the fact that it should look no further than the waterfront industry to see the benefit to an industry of collective bargaining. One of the initial points to come from the Woodward Conference was that if there were to be any innovations in mechanical handling, the use of forklift trucks or what have you, before the employers introduced such innovations they should acquaint the local union branch members with them so that, where there was likely to be any difference of opinion, they could get around the conference table and thrash it out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The time allotted for the second reading of this Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I have not said anything,  Mr Speaker. 

 Mr 
 SPEAKER - If the honourable member for Sturt does not behave himself in this chamber I will deal with him. 
The combined case that was presented there clearly indicates . that there does virtually exist in this area the ingredients of a complete disaster. What 1 would suggest is that the funds that have been made available or which will become available under this rural reconstruction scheme must be considered as being earmarked precisely for rural reconstruction; but to' keep these people in business, that is. those who are viable, who are able to recover, stand their ground and come good, other funds have to be made available with all urgency, lt is not a dramatic gesture or a dramatic pronouncement to say that a virtual disaster has hit this area as it has not hit to the same extent any other part of this nation. 
It is not just a matter of the man on the land, the business people in the town, the railway men, the council workers, the fencers or the other people who are involved in this, because it is the whole nation that is involved. I do not think this country can afford to see dissipated an industry which 2 years ago was worth $836m to this nation and which at its worst is worth about $600m. So,  Mr Speaker,  I make the point that the people involved in the interior of Queensland and northern New South Wales have been far more disastrously affected than those in any other part of Australia. I reiterate that they have had to face up to a combination of several most adverse factors. The first of those factors is the continuing drought that they have experienced, and the second is the remoteness with the disabilities in respect of freight charges and other things that exist in remote areas. (Quorum formed). Again I point out that these factors combined have created an extremely difficult situation in this area. 
Only tonight - it would not be more than an hour ago - I received a telephone call from a third generation grazier in this area. He told me that he has received his marching orders and that he has to be off his land within 2 months. He does not know where he will go. He does not know where he will take his family. He does not know what will become of him. I am afraid that if this begins to snowball and these people begin to receive their marching orders to get off their land because they cannot pay their debts, they will suffer and there will be a general exodus from the area. I am afraid that not only this industry, but also the complete way of life in these areas will wane and disappear. We people who represent such areas sincerely hope that because of the limitations on the application of these rural reconstruction funds, the Government might give urgent consideration to making other substantial funds available to help people who cannot meet the requirements of the rural reconstruction scheme. 
This is my contribution to the debate: Firstly, I commend the Government for introducing the Bill. I respectfully submit that the whole idea for this rural reconstruction scheme began at a meeting held in the town of Longreach at the end of 1968. Subsequent meetings were held in Queensland and finally the idea of this rural reconstruction scheme became a reality. Now the Bill is going through this House tonight. One other aspect relates to the position of those who cannot in any way diversify. People in these arid and semi-arid zones in inland Queensland and in inland northern New South Wales cannot diversify. They cannot look to any other calling. They completely depend on the wool industry. 
From time to time various schemes have been suggested which might meet this situation. I know that the Government parties have worked intensely, untiringly and unceasingly over the last few months to find a solution to this most complex problem. It is most encouraging to find that our Liberal colleagues - men who normally would not be expected completely to understand the disastrous situation which exists in these areas - now are fully aware of the position. The cohesion which is being displayed and the co-operation which is taking place at the present time in order to find a solution to this problem are most encouraging to we people of the Country Party. Because the provisions of this Bill cannot be applied to a great majority of those people throughout New South Wales, Queensland and Western 
Australia who are disastrously affected - and I refer to this particular group of wool growers who cannot diversify and who have to face these other difficulties - 1 would most strongly ask the Government to give urgent consideration to making additional funds available to these people without delay. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to support the amendment- 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, in entering into this debate I indicate my support of the amendment. The supporters of the Australian Country Party are an inward bunch of fellows when it comes to policies on rural matters. An example of this was given by my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  in this House a moment ago. I wish to dwell briefly, if I may, on the remarks tonight of the newly elected honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  Honourable members could not interject during his remarks the other night because he was making his maiden speech but he has now made the grade. Incidentally, I was given a nice old belting in my maiden speech. I was knocked off 5 times. The honourable member was fortunate in that he was accorded much more courtesy than I was. I interjected during the honourable member's reference tonight to the Ardmona cannery because I believed that if he had quoted the other night from other newspapers in addition to the one he quoted from he would have been able to show that in or about mid-December of last year the Board of Ardmona was very critical of the Government because the Board considered that in about December of this year Ardmona would have to go to the wall because of the tremendously high freight rates. 
Containerisation and so on. The honourable member must have known something about this because of the interjections. He was dishonest tonight in that he did not mention it. I rise mainly because I want the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to tell me something when he replies. The Minister will no doubt recall that a number of weeks ago I approached him in regard to the position of 2 canneries in South Australia. One of them was Jon Products. I think a sum of about $600,000 was involved. The other one was Riverlands, which involved a greater figure than that. This was a restructuring programme. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  walked back into the chamber earlier tonight with his hands in his pockets and interjected while the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was on his feet. The Prime Minister implied that what the honourable member for Dawson was saying was in fact not true. The Prime Minister should enter the debate tonight and tell us that a committee will be set up in some form or another to inquire into the position of not only the canneries mentioned in the amendment but also Jon Products. It is not good enough for the Prime Minister infrequently to walk casually into the chamber and, by way of interjection, make some allegations before going out of the chamber. He should participate in the debate. I would love to see him enter this debate and tell the House exactly what his Government has been doing about this matter. As I have said, some supporters of the Government are inward looking. I want to come back to this aspect in a moment. The Government should get off its posterior and do something about finding markets for this industry. As my friend, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has pointed out, tha industry relies completely on markets, but the Government is not doing anything about finding markets. The Government is simply spending millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money subsidising this industry. This expenditure could multiply because of the position in other canning factories which I have mentioned. 
I want the Minister for Primary Industry to tell me tonight whether the matters I approached him about over 6 weeks ago in regard to Jon Products have received any attention by him. I have been remiss in that I have left all my notes in Adelaide of the telephone conversations I had with the 
Minister. I thought that after my initial conversation with him, the Minister, who was just getting into a new portfolio, would have brushed up on this matter and done something about it, but apparently he has not done so. The fact is that, insofar as Jon Products is concerned- 
I think it is in the electorate of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell).  As it is in a city electorate I suppose it will not get the same attention from the Country Party as it would get in, for example, Shepparton. I wish to thank the honourable member for Kingston for drawing my attention to that fact. It was sacking men. If those men were sacked - I have not checked on this-and were not given employment elsewhere, would this Government introduce a measure in this House to provide the payment of some remuneration to these men? Would their rents be. taken care of? Would the interest rates on their homes be reduced? Of course this would not happen. The Government adopts 2 standards and it will continue to adopt 2 standards. The Government is so inward looking that it will turn a circle and fall over within it. I want the Minister to tell me whether, as a result pf an investigation by a committee, a grant of some $600,000 has been made to this company to offset the dismissal of certain employees. I understand that the manager of this concern spoke to some people in Adelaide because of the fact that the factory could collapse and go completely out of production and that the Government has apparently had a look at the situation and made certain recommendations. I understand that certain new machinery and what-have-you was to be introduced, but no mention is made of this in the Bill before the House. I want to know why there should be any difference simply because a factory is located in South Australia or Victoria. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Supply. Firstly, why does his Department insist on a security check on members of the community who are not employed by his Department? Secondly, after such security investigations are made why does his Department contemplate action against employees of the Department by way of demotion, involving loss of earnings, because of their social contact with members of the community? Thirdly, why does the Department of Supply discriminate against naturalised citizens? Finally, why does his Department regard such people as being aliens and therefore subject to security investigation? 
 Having paid some regard to what the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and not what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has said about the time of the House, I refer initially to the fact that yesterday in the chamber a question was directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  This matter has been dealt with to some extent tonight by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  Yesterday in the Minister's reply I detected an inability on his part to weigh up the situation so far as the trade union movement in Australia today is concerned. He is feeling his way in the department, of which he has only recently become Minister. It seems that we can look to a very unhappy relationship between the trade union movement and the employer organisations. I regret that I noted from the Minister's reply that this was more than a likelihood. The Minister demonstrated that he is so inexpert and so ignorant of the trade union movement and of the employee's side of the industrial scene that he fails to appreciate that Broken Hill would have the least number of man hours lost through illegal strikes, political stoppages and all these things which be and past Ministers have been so happy to relate to the House. I draw to his attention also that this is brought about by the fact that, by and large, Broken Hill is almost completely a union town. The Minister should recognise that. The workers honour their agreements. They do not break them. What complaint can the Minister have about that? 
Either just before or just after the Minister accepted the portfolio, this Government bombed certain industrial agreements that were made between employer and trade union organisations. This set off a chain reaction within the trade union movement. I do not want to talk about that subject any more tonight. I would hope that the Minister would take us on on this subject and air some of the knowledge which he professes to have. 
I want to talk about a situation which 1 have spoken of often in this chamber. Unfortunately, I usually raise this subject late at night. I will mention it again tonight in the forlorn hope that sooner or later something will be done. I must be a super-optimist. I mention the fact of the tremendous burden that the primary producers in this country are still being forced to bear in paying the exorbitant freight rates that have been imposed on them by the conference line method of shipping. Honourable members on the Government side of the House know that this situation goes back to 1927. They have been a party to it. The Leader of the Country Party in this House was a party to it as was  Sir Alan  Westerman, the former head of the Department of Trade and Industry. Their claims of the great benefits to be bestowed upon the farming community, the people and shippers of this country from the introduction of containerisation are on record in this House. Nothing has been done at all in this field, and no relief has been forthcoming. Since the inception of containerisation and the spread of conference line shipping we have seen ever increasing freight charges on our exporters. The rural community has suffered more in this regard than have the manufacturing industries. Why should this be so when we have in government a party that boasts that it is orientated towards the protection of the rural industries? I ask any one of the honourable members on the other side of the House: Why is it that today wool costs more to ship from this country than any other commodity? Why is it that you have not stirred yourselves in this regard? I could go on for hours on this subject. Honourable members opposite have done nothing. They have sold primary producers  down the drain. I will continue to raise this subject and stir honourable members opposite. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a letter dated 15th February 1971 addressed to the then Prime Minister giving details of various freight rates. 
Dear Prime Minister, 
Further to my letter to you of the 12th February 1971 I would once more try to persuade you of my conviction that our present inflation and depression is directly attributable to Country Party action and policy over the last SO years. 
It would be most interesting for you or your Secretary to ask the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board a single, simple question. Who has prevented him from segregating our wheat? He is on record since 19S4 as regarding wheat segregation to be of tremendous importance. 
Similarly you might contact Messrs. Elder Smith and learn from the Managing Director, of Montgomerie  why they have been chartering ships since 1924 for oil, timber, coal, iron, minerals and even for wheat but not for wool, coarse grains, oilseeds, pelleted lucerne and other agricultural primary products. 
In September 19S9 I paid for and published a booklet called 'The Great Grains Scandal'. Last week I published a second booklet entitled 'Fifty Years of Rural Betrayal' and on it's last page you will notice that only two people,  Mr J.  McEwen and  Mr H.  B. Staniland of Overseas Containers Limited attacked the previous publication, and how 1 have answered these attacks. 
In addition to this booklet  I  had a full page advertisement in 'The Sydney Morning Herald' on Wednesday, 10th February 1971 referring to the rural betrayal, and the Country Party henchmen who hold responsibility. This time not a single person expressed any doubts about my views which have been expressly accepted by hundreds of people including Ministers of all three parties. Many culls and letters have expressed appreciation and I And it incredible to be called a 'Lone Crusader' and that in our great country to-day an individual who does not wish to be a party to policies so underhand as to be criminal, should be so described. 
I enclose herewith a photocopy of Baltic Exchange Rates as published in to-days 'Australian Financial Review'. To extract only a few transactions: 

<graphic href="073131197108185_80_0.jpg"></graphic>

Consider the situation regarding wool. As you know since 1929 we have had the Preservation Act which gives U.K. shipping lines the monopoly to control our shipping and fix freight rates. Until 1967 (for 38 years) we have paid many times the freight we should, mainly for wool, which industry was then prosperous and was asked to pay higher rates to support other industries. This is not the case to-day. 
In 1967 cellular containers were introduced and the freight rate was not reduced but considerably increased per ton door to door. Wool to Europe by container costs $118.00 per ton door to door. In fact, we could be using chartered ships which could freight the wool for about (24.00/ton maximum. 
This would save S94.00 per ton 
Most of the S24.00 freight increase goes to agents connected with the sale of our wool. They are in exactly the same position as I having to accept this ill-gotten money as compensation for being parties, however unwilling, to this tragic betrayal. 
I enclose my two booklets and The Sydney Morning Herald' advertisement and I challenge you again to correct me in any of my accusations which may be wrong on the rural betrayal carried out by the Country Party. 
I also enclose copy of my letter to you of the 19th September 1968 and I ask you to act in the only way open to you if you really are concerned about our economy. This action entails stopping this betrayal by disassociating yourself from your coalition partner, and asking for a mandate to run this country in your own right. Only then will your prophecy of 14th September 1968 have a chance to become a reality. 
Otherwise my prediction is that very soon we will have a depression. This time only in Australia and beyond compare, with that of 1929 which was worldwide. 
The Government ought to establish a standing committee in this House as a most urgent matter to investigate this problem. It is just not good enough for honourable members opposite to leave the problem to the industry. 
It is an absolute jungle. What the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said yesterday is true. Before honourable members opposite attack me, let me say that apples are grown in my electorate. The fact is that New Zealand has been able to procure for the grower a greater return for his product because it has the courage to move away from the conference line and go to independent shipping. Tramp tonnage in shipping is available today. By 'tramp tonnage' I do not mean old and dilapidated ships of the type I had to deal with recently in South Australia. The owners of such ships are prepared to carry the commodities of this country to our diminishing markets abroad for a fraction of the rates presently charged. Honourable members opposite can make all the gesticulations they like. What I am saying is true. All honourable members opposite who think that this is no more than a chamber of mimicry are duty bound to do something about this problem. A lot more regard should be paid to freights because they are reducing our markets. They are one of the principal reasons why we have absolute chaos in the countryside today. If honourable members opposite do not know how the ship owners con the community and how they prevent the shipper from obtaining markets abroad it is about time they ceased being misled and went along to the waterfront areas to inspect what goes on. In addition, the Government ought to examine more of the proposals put forward from time to time. Proposals should not be accepted merely because they are those of the vast transport organisations. If honourable members opposite had sufficient common sense to absorb that it would more than break theirhearts. It would almost drive them around the bend if they were able to understand the sabotage that goes on in primary industry. We have lost grain markets over it; we have lost wool markets over it; we have lost wine markets over it. The Government has shrunk its markets in almost every area because of this. 
Why do not honourable members opposite ask themselves why South Africa is able to ship into countries much nearer to Australia - almost on Australia's doorstep - at less than half the freight rate, agricultural products of the type that we produce in this country? Why is this so? Why do not honourable members opposite question themselves about that? It is obvious that they do not like the truth. It is of no use blaming the railways and the internal transport system of Australia. In fact, they do not have to go any further than Australia to gain sufficient information to establish that the Government should carry out an invesigation. An honourable member from Tasmania has stood in this chamber on some occassions and spoken of the manner in which Tasmania was dealt with and how Tasmania cannot expand industrially in some areas because of the crippling freight burden on the Australian coast, let alone overseas. This is a real problem and it is time the Government tackled it in the interests of national development generally and for the nation's good. It might even win back some of its country cousins if it did this. I conclude by saying that this will not be the last time that I rise on this subject. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.2 a.m. (Thursday). 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  ought to stand up in this chamber at the very next opportunity that is afforded to him under the procedures of this House and dissociate himself from the remarks of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I say that because the Treasurer, when he was Minister for Labour and National Service, consistently attacked, in this chamber, the decisions and the judges - even the  President  - of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, as a result of the 6 per cent increase awarded by the Commission in the last national wage case. Am I right or am I wrong in that? The honourable member for Diamond Valley knows perfectly well that I am right. Why docs he not, as an honest, upstanding member who was recently elected to this chamber, as I was, have sufficient honesty and straightforwardness to stand up here tomorrow, or even tonight if he is afforded the opportunity, and dissociate himself from the remarks of the Treasurer? 
Tn addition to that, the honourable member has stood on his high legal horse. He said that he is a lawyer.I suppose that he is still getting a quid out of the law, otherwise he would not have carried on in the way he did tonight. I want to remind him that lawyers in his Party, in this Parliament, are not above being given the sack. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  knows that. Is he not a lawyer? Was he not deposed by the system that operates within his Party? The honourable member for Diamond Valley ought to have a look at himself in the mirror occasionally, apart from the times when he does so as he is shaving in the morning. The honourable member did not even mention the judge's name. I wonder who it was. Who was the judge? 
But honourable members opposite will not say it, either. Where is their courage in these matters?I do not want to waste any more time on what honourable members opposite think that the Labor Party ought to do. Honourable members opposite have held conferences over the last few weeks, but they have not got the courage to take the electors of Australia into their confidence. They hold their conferences behind closed doors. Honourable members opposite coined a phrase about the 36 faceless men at the time when the F111 aircraft were ordered in 1963. Of course, they were untruthful about both of those matters. But if ever the phrase about faceless men can be brought home and used correctly, it can be applied to honourable members opposite today. They think that they have the right to stand up and address this chamber as individuals. Whom do they think they are conning? They stand up in this chamber tonight and say that what the Labor Party has been doing over the past few weeks in fact is designed to draw people's minds away from the issues of the day. They backed the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in dragging the South African rugby team to Australia. Probably the Prime Minister has not got the courage to refuse to allow the South African cricket team to come to Australia. He wants to divide and create discrimination amongst the Australian people and draw their minds away from the real issues of the day. 
Honourable members opposite have sat in this chamber as members of Parliament in the last few weeks as a result of the election promises of the previous Prime Minister, John Gorton. One of the promises which the Government gave during the last Senate election campaign was that child minding centres would be established. But honourable members opposite sneaked into the the Parliament hoping that the statement which they made, in which they said that they were not going on with the establishment of child minding centres, would not be heard by the Press gallery. 
In this chamber last night honourable members opposite referred to the question of national development. Where is their sense of pride as a Party? Where is their sense of pride as Australians? Where is their sense of pride as citizens of Australia? They know full well that they are not doing the things that they ought to be doing. The Government is spending thousands of millions of dollars on defence, but we are the most defenceless area in South East Asia. In addition to that, the Government has been so hypocritical that it does not matter. One of the greatest areas of need is to be found amongst the sick and the aged in this community. A shocking situation has been created by the lack of understanding by honourable members Opposite who have 2 and 3 jobs. The Government will not increase the subsidies for beds in nursing homes. It ought to accept some responsibility in this area, but not one cent has been provided in the Budget by the guilty men opposite for increased subsidies for beds in nursing homes. 
Some honourable members opposite had the hide to stand in this chamber tonight and deliver an oration because they knew full well, as the Government Parties are in charge of the business of the House, that time was to be provided for a long adjournment debate tonight. The word came to me before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that honourable members opposite were going to do some stirring tonight. That is fine. We on this side of the chamber welcome it. Honourable members opposite can keep it going until 4 o'clock in the morning as far as we are concerned, but on each occasion that one of them rises and speaks he will be knocked down completely by quite good argument from this side. 
What is the Government prepared to do about education? I have in my hand at the moment a document which tells me that on Friday morning the GovernorGeneral is to swear in a number of Assistant Ministers. They are  Mr Street, Mr Dobie, Mr Robinson, Senator Marriott, Mr King  and  Mr McLeay.  God almighty - how many more goes are they to have? This is the list of names that you fellows do not know of yet. Members opposite, by the expressions on their faces, are stunned. They do not even know that their Prime Minister has had the document circulated to the Press. The honourable member is holding up a sheet of paper on which presumably there are names. That is not the same one as I have: The fact is this: There are so many honourable members opposite who do not know what is going on in their Party that it does not matter. But I want to deal with education. 

 - Mr Speaker, in case some honourable members opposite do not know, I tell them that the names on the paper are:  Mr Street, Mr Dobie, Mr Robinson, Senator Marriott, Mr King  and  Mr McLeay.  So much for that. 
The Minister for Education and Science, of course, has held this portfolio before. Let us hope, that he does more than the Minister who has just recently been appointed to another portfolio. The new Minister for Education and Science is the one and only honourable member for Wannon. This is protection, of course, against certain political opposition during the course of the next election, no doubt in Victoria. I only hope that the previous Minister, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  will adequately and properly convey to the new Minister for Education and Science the vast area of need for South Australia. 1 hope he will remind the new Minister of the fact that thousands of people gathered at a meeting in the Norwood Town Hall which was organised by the South Australian Institute of Teachers and parents and teachers organisations and that this meeting spelt out quite clearly the responsibility of a Federal Minister for Education and Science. The previous Minister dodged the inspection of actual school sites, school conditions and temporary accommodation in South Australia during the course of his last visit there. While going out the door after an inspection he said he would give consideration to the various requirements. I make this offer to the honourable member for Wannon: If he will come to the federal division of Sturt I will accord him every courtesy and opportunity to look at some df the shocking conditions that children and teachers have to put up with as a result of mismanagement, lack of understanding and lack of foresight. This is the mess made by this Government. The whole lot of you have not had the ability to read the signs. 
Now here it comes. The honourable member for Kennedy says it is the responsibility of the State governments. This is one thing that the newly appointed Minister will say after Friday. He will say that the Commonwealth gives the States a growth tax and therefore they can look after education. The cockies sit in their corner and try to avoid questions about wheat quotas. It is a matter for the States, they say. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  They will sit there, as they do, muttering and mumbling. They say: 'It is a State responsibility'. I say to them: Any one of those State governments which has accepted the responsibility on behalf of the Federal Governmentto go cap in hand to the farmers in respect of the rural reconstruction scheme has indeed been foolish. The Labor Party in South Australia was not as wise as I expected it ought to be. It shouldnot have had a bar of the scheme. It should have pinpointed the blame to the guilty men sitting in this chamber. The guilt is their. The guilt is that of the Country Party. 
I spoke last night about freights. I shall continue to hammer the matter until the Government has the courage to set up a committee in an effort to do something. Another matter which I want to mention concerns constitutional reform. Honourable members opposite expected to raise this tonight but they could not even stickto their lines regarding industrial affairs in the country. Let them have the courage to stand in this House and do something for the expenditure of the $250,000 thatwent into the production of this report on reform more than 10 years ago. Mismanagement, miscarriage - call it what you like. Honourable members opposite are absolutely incompetent; they have lost the will to lead, if they ever had it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is  27i  per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is customs duty of up to  47i  per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties he removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 am prepared to accept some of the advice that has been given, but in doing so 1 would point out that - 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  agreed to: 
That the Business of the Day be called on.  Mr Foster  - The House will hear what I have to say about this matter in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House if it does not want to listen to me now. The Government should not be applying the gag so early in the session. 
I seek your advice,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Has the Minister for Customs and Excise moved the gag? 
Has the Minister moved the gag? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in building technology is in Cadell Prison, in South 
Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And our petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise on a matter of privilege that was raised the other day by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I realise, of course, that this matter was discussed the other day, but I draw your attention,  Mr Speaker,  to the fact that since the House commenced sitting last week the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  has had 4 questions, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has had 4, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  has had 3, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has had 2 today, and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  has had 4. 
Honourable members will recall that on 2 occasions last week I raised the question of shipping freight rates. 1 am somewhat disappointed not to see here some 9 supporters on the Government side who have said to me that they agreed with what I have said so far. Honourable members will recall that I had said I would continue to speak on this matter and to implore the House to set up a committee to inquire into the extremely exorbitant freight rates which are levied against not only our primary producers but also those who produce goods for export and also to inquire into the effect of these exorbitant freight rates on the shrinking markets available to Australia. 
Yes, I agree that we are being held to ransom. As I have said before I think it bears repeating - those who are engaged in shipping Australian products overseas are parties to a closed shop type of agreement. Honourable members on the other side see fit to use that expression against honourable members on this side when they are talking about compulsory trade unionism. But they do not like to hear the term applied to them when they are parties to conference agreements which hold a gun at the heads of every primary producer, particularly those in the wool industry- 
They will not have a secret ballot on it. There is no suggestion that members of the Government Parties would have a secret ballot on anything except to elect one of their own leaders in what I would call a bodgie ballot. I want to read to the House from some correspondence, copies of which have been placed in the hands of every honourable member but on which members of the Australian Country Party have been extremely silent. The title of the document is 'Where Was  Sir William?'.  I do not know who  Sir William  is. I am not gunning for anybody. The document reads: 
We read so much about complaints of snippets (exporters), a single wool marketing authority, and the increase in freight rates by O.C.L., but no reference is made to a symposium, 'The Future of Shipping' held on July 11 1968. 
At this symposium,  Dr Fisher  (Department of Trade and Industry) represented the exporter but the Wool Board had no representative either at the symposium or at a conference 'Containerisation Shipping', held May 9-14 1966. 
What a difference it would have made to the wool grower if  Sir William  Gunn had attended these conferences, or at least read the reports on them. 
Strangely enough, in a most irresponsible manner,  Sir William  refers to the 4 per cent increase in freight but ignores the main issue - the lengthy period during which we had to pay six times iis much as we should have for wool freight. 
Before the introduction of containers, the wool industry had to pay for 900,000 tons of wool at about $94 a ton freight, against a maximum of $14 a ton if this wool had been shipped in chartered ships, a difference of $72m. 
If we accept what the 'Australian Financial Review' said on that occasion, if we halve the amount for which the conference agreed to ship wool overseas and double the $14 mentioned in this letter we arrive at a figure that still represents a hell of a slug on the wool grower and the shipper in this country. The letter continues: 
In a Press article,  Sir Andrew  Creighton,  Chairman  of OCL  stated it was the Department of Trade which encouraged the introduction of containers to the Australian trade. 
I draw the attention of honourable members again to the fact that I have said in this House on so many occasions that it was a complete and utter sellout by the Department of Trade in the early 1960s that has bound everybody in Australia, whether associated with shipping or not, to one of the most piratical types of shipping on the high seas today. The Minister for Trade and Industry at the time was none other than  Mr McEwen,  then Leader of the Country Party. Oddly enough, as the letter points out,  Dr Fisher  did not deny these facts. The letter goes on: 
Country Party Ministers who forced this plan through must accept responsibility for the losses they have forced upon Australian exporters. 
In 1968 the 'Australian Financial Review' published a statement by the then commercial manager of the Australian National Line,  Mr J.  I. Davies, who summarised the inferiority of cellular  container ships lor woo]  shipment. 

 Mr Page (OCL) reminded  Dr Fisher  that it was made quite clear to his department that these cellular containers could pay only if commodities like wool, sheepskins, etc., which could afford to do so, paid higher freight rates, compared to other commodities unable to pay such high rates. 
Here is a sellout by Country Party interests. Here is an open admission of what I have said before, that there is absolutely no necessity from the point of view of economics or common sense for a commodity such as wool to be containerised, or for a commodity such as sheepskins which are packed for the overseas market and stand about 5 feet high, 3 feet wide and 3 feet deep, to be containerised. I have mentioned before all these burglars such as Dalgetys and the New Zealand banks who are riding on the back of the wool grower. It is not so much a case of the country riding on the back of the sheep. That situation has gone forever and a day possibly. I say quite seriously that there has been a complete sellout. There has been an open admission that other exportable commodities which lend themselves to containerisation would not be accepted by the conference at what could be considered to be a fair and reasonable freight rate unless the wool interests, the shippers, the burglars within the industry, the people who take the money from the pockets of the wool growers and make their takehome income much smaller, insist that at the expense of the wool grower wool be placed in containers along with sheepskins. 
Where are the dozen or so members on the other side of the House who have said to me in the last week: 'We agree with you; it is about time the House of Representatives set up a  committee'? A  committee of this House should be set up and should be charged with the responsibility of investigating every conference report since at least 1959. Such an investigation would reveal - there is no doubt about this - what has been happening in this country so far as wool freights are concerned. [ am waiting for the courage of my so called supporters to prevail. I do not know how long I will have to wait. 
Yes, obviously it will be a long time. The letter continues: 
Today the wool industry would be in a different position if  Sir William  Gunn had been guided by the opinion of even one honest wool grower,  Mr J.  I. F. Maple-Brown. 
Unfortunately, it is not enough to be told by  Mr McEwen  and  Sir Alan  Westerman what is wrong with the Conference Lines, yet acting in a way that, instead of improving these conditions, works to make them many times worse (see report of the 1966 Conference). 
One has to consider that so far we have spent many hundreds of millions of dollars in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Fremantle for container facilities, plus$56m for 4 container ships which have only a value of scrap as far as Australian is concerned. 
How much longer do we intend to use cellular containers and spend more money in installations and depots (Villawood, Yennora) while at the same time, without spending a penny-- 
This is true -  . . other countries (excluding United Kingdom and Australia) are making a fortune shipping goods from Australia? 
Our Government even insisted that other countries had to join the Conference Lines and increase their freight to the highest rates. 
If these allegations are untrue, they ought to be cleared. They can only be cleared by setting up a committee of this House. I have here a lengthy document and I intend to go through most of it. I have letters to the Minister for Trade and Industry (Mr Anthony), the present Leader of the Country Party, that are damning and damaging. If he has any honesty and if he does not think these allegations are true he should stand here and reject them and he should go along with the setting up of a committee of this House to clear the names of members of the Country Party and the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the face of the allegations contained in this document. I personally believe that these allegations are true. I believe that the Country Party has sold the country and the wool growers down the drain. I have no doubt about this after reading some of the things contained in this document. I have seen some of these things at first hand and have had personal experience of them. When the procedures of this House afford me the opportunity to do so I will move that his House set up a committee to investigate these allegations. Perhaps, if it serves no other purpose, it will clear the names of the people who this document alleges have in fact completely betrayed the interests of shippers and exporters generally in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. Die humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present, in Australian education is the lack of equal education, opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I hope the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and his ministerial sparrows behind him will remain in this chamber for the next 10 or 15 minutes. I say this to those sitting behind the Prime Minister waiting for the ministerial crumbs that might be thrown behind his back for them to pick up. Let me refer to this Budget as a swaggies budget. It is a Budget that gives nothing today and little for tomorrow. This is the Budget that has been brought down by the Government. At the time the Budget was being introduced, what was our gallant little Prime Minister McMahon doing? When he spoke tonight he did not refer to the Leader of the Opposition as the Leader of the Opposition - he referred to him as  Mr Whitlam.  Therefore why should not I refer to the Prime Minister as  Mr McMahon?  What is good enough for the goose is good enough for the gander. I ask honourable members opposite to stay in their seats. 

 Mr McMahon as Prime Minister has proved to be irresponsible and untrustworthy. When he took office he waa regarded as being a hard worker with a competent manner. He sounded a high note of confidence and had a businesslike air. The myth of McMahon was the myth of the strong man who would be able to heal the wounds of the once great Liberal Party. There was a feeling of confidence and optimism. Today the command of this country has never been lower and this has been brought about by honourable members opposite. What then has  Mr McMahon  achieved? I hear some comments from the public gallery. It appears that even people in the public gallery are not going to put up with him much longer. 
 I too want to register my opposition to this move. I am cognisant of the fact that during the last week that this House met 2 honourable members on this side were denied leave to make a statement. This is a matter that we on this side of the House should take very seriously. One of those honourable members sought leave to make a statement in response to certain matters that a Government Minister had raised in relation to South Australia. I also am cognisant of the fact that during the autumn session the Government by the vicious use of certain provisions of the Standing Orders of this House completely and utterly denied Opposition members the opportunity to debate a number of Bills - some 20, if my memory serves me correctly. There was such a limited amount of time available for debate on some of the Bills that we may as well not have debated them at all. 
My mind goes back a little earlier in the autumn session when there was a change of Prime Minister. One of the first statements made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was that while he agreed with Cabinet rule, and one might say Cabinet dictatorship - they were not his words, of course - Parliament was supreme but he made sure, as I just said, that the guillotine and the gag were used. Indeed, the worst feature of these actions of the Government's was a denial of the right of the Opposition to use the procedures of this House to move for a suspension of Standing Orders. This was the last straw as far as we were concerned. The total votes recorded for honourable members on this side of the House in the last House of Representatives election were far in excess of the votes recorded for the Government Parties. For that reason, and taking that as a democratic guide, we should insist on our rights at every possible opportunity. At the moment there are 4 or 5 Government supporters present in the House. There is no quorum here and this is the Government's responsibility. I thought this was sheeted home to it at the end of the last week of sitting but it has not learnt the lesson. 
Is it not the right of Opposition members to move motions that they have placed on the notice paper? I see this as some form of veiled protection of some honourable members on the Government side who it appears have placed matters on the notice paper but now do not want to debate them. One was placed by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Was it put there as a sop to his electorate? Does he not want it to come on for debate? Perhaps he wishes it to lie on the notice paper for ever and a day. This is the way this House has come to work so far as the Government is concerned. It is too early in this session for the Government to consider any restrictions being placed on honourable members on this side of the House. If the Government wants to play it purely on the basis of a hard line, the numbers game, of course it will win. This is recognised on this side of the 
House, but the Government does not win on the morals and principles of the issue. We have been meeting in this place for only a very short time during this Budget session: yet we on this side of the House have been denied the right to raise some matters. The Minister said it is traditional to do this. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  on this matter a few moments ago. As far as 1 am concerned any procedure which involves a denial of rights should not be traditional. If the Government wants to use tradition as a means of denying democracy, it may as well say that Lord Shaftesbury would not have done anything about children in the mines. The Government is not progressive enough. 
We on this side of the House have been screaming our heads off trying to have committees established. I had something briefly to say on this last night. But not only will the Government not entertain that suggestion; it comes down with these petty attitudes now and again. Is it fearful of the matters the Opposition raises against it as a government, matters such as its inequalities, its shortcomings, its procrastinations and the fact that its members place matters on the notice paper but are not sincere in doing so? One' can only say that the Government's actions this afternoon confirm this suggestion. Its actions certainly confirm my line of thinking. I suggest to the Minister that he should not expect to be able to come into this House and say: 'We did something in  1908  and we ought to do it in  1971'.  I suggest the Minister should be big enough to recognise that perhaps the Prime Minister and his Government have erred in their instructions to him on this occasion, admit the mistake he has made in the Parliament and withdraw the motion he has placed before this House. Perhaps, if it is necessary and if at some later date the Government realises that it is in trouble over the Budget debate the matter can be resolved in a discussion between the Leader of the House and his opposite number on this side of the House. I most certainly oppose the introduction at this stage of the Budget session of anything which in any shape or form smells or looks like a gag or guillotine. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1971-72  Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 7 September (vide page 869), on motion by  Mr Snedden: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Whitlam  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House condemns the Budget because (a) it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security'. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I register the strongest possible protest at this action. The fact is that a couple of days ago we objected to what goes on in Parliament; yet in the last few moments the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  moved this motion while the House was in a state of complete babble and bubble. Because of members of the Australian Country Party who are on my immediate left, one can rarely hear anything over their gabble. The Leader of the House ran through a list like somebody gabbling at a wool auction, and with just as little result. Members of the Opposition were unable to hear all that he said. The Leader of the House should be honest about this. I ask him why the dickens this matter was not on the blue sheet. Why could not members of the Opposition have been given notice of this proposal earlier in the day? Some items on the notice paper were discharged the other day and the Leader of the House comes in here at this hour of the night and attempts to discharge other matters. Why does the Government fetch the Opposition to the Parliament at all? Is it to save some form of public face? The Government is not allowing the Parliament to function as it should function. It sees fit to be critical of the trade union movement. Let me say this to honourable members opposite and to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for that matter: If a trade union were to run its organisation in the way that the Parliament has been run for the last couple of weeks the country would indeed be in strife. 
I do not know whether the Leader of the House is tied hand and foot by a decision that has been made dictatorially by Cabinet. I do not know whether he is tied by the dictatorial attitude of the Ministers, with a Whip or a Deputy Government Whip barking somewhere in the background.It is not too late for the Government to have some conciliatory thoughts on this matter. 'Conciliation' is a word that honourable members opposite often use but which they never put into practice. The Government should have discussions with Opposition members so that the Opposition will know what the Government has in mind. It is just not good enough for Government members to adopt the attitude that: 'We have the numbers and to hell with everybody else'. I conclude by registering my protest at the manner in which the Leader of the House has notified us tonight of the intentions of the Government in regard to a number of matters that are on the notice paper. The Government may consider them unimportant but we on this side of the House do not. 
I want to  address  the House tonight on a matter which I consider to be of the utmost importance to every man, woman and child in Australia. I regret that I have had to wait until this late hour when the House is about to adjourn to raise this matter. On previous occasions in this House I have attempted to raise the fact that the American Defence Department, because of the attitude of this Government, has situated in this country bases at Pine Gap and at other centres which means that Australia will become a prime nuclear target. During the course of the last 24 hours or so we have been made aware of this station  by  what was said in the Australian radio programme 'PM'. A  Mr Klass  has gone on record on that programme and has spelt out  in  quite clear terms what we on this side of the House have suspected because of what we know and because of what we have picked up in certain American journals, that is, the existence in this country of bases of a type that we should not have here. Their only purpose in the overall scheme of things is connected with the American defence system. 
There can be no doubt in the minds of honourable members opposite after what was revealed yesterday on the programme PM'  of  the existence in this country at Pine Gap of part of a global communication system which will not add to the defence effort of Australia. I would defy any honourable member opposite to try, and I would take to task any  member  of any defence committee in Australia  who  in fact tried to inform me that the existence of these bases in Australia  will serve  Australia's defence. Therefore, it would  seem  to me that the Australian people just have not been considered. Where is Australia's nuclear deterrent? Has the Government, in acceding to the United States request for the establishment of these bases which are designed not to defend Australia but to make it a prime nuclear target, abdicated its responsibility for the preservation of the people of Australia in its attempt to curry favour by acceding to every request made by the United States in relation to that country's defence interests? 
We in Australia have not been considered by the United States so far as the provision of a nuclear deterrent for Australia's defence is concerned. In addition, there is no evidence of an American interest in providing a protective umbrella, such as that which the United States provides for her own defence in the North American area generally. There is a complete absence of this protector in Australia 01 in the near locality to Australia. Further, there is no consideration for a rocket system based on the capability of Australia to defend itself. There is a complete absence of any system similar to that which affords protection for the United States. One can only conlude that in the event of a global nuclear world war III America considers that the people of this country are expendable. This is made obvious by the fact that the defence experts of the Washington Pentagon are interested only in this continent in the interests of the American defence system and consider that Pine Gap in Australia will provide the necessary warning for the United States to take defensive and retaliatory action in any nuclear war for the purpose of American defence. 
It seems to me that in a global conflict, or even in the threat of a global conflict, there is every possibility that this country would be the first to be attacked. Why has Washington interested itself in this country? It has done so because, by our geographical position and by the placement here of a base such as Pine Gap, we can provide adequate warning for an American defence system. It will provide some considerable hours of warning that America would not have if a place like Pine Gap had not been established in Australia, but it does not provide - this is the thing that ought to concern members in this House and every thinking person in Australia - any form of warning to Australia. One of the first things that a country hell bent on destruction would consider is whether it has any enemies in this regard. 
Since taking part in the World War of 1939 to 1946 - I have expressed this view in this House before - I am almost a complete pacifist so far as any future war is concerned because I hold very strongly to the belief that if nations today do not learn to communicate with one another, to speak to one another and to get along with one another, the human race on this globe is most certainly doomed. But I am concerned because we have become a prime nuclear target. We have no defensive system, and one would be within the bounds of reason to expect that the reason we would be attacked is because the world knows, even if we have not been told in this country because of the attitude of the Government, the position that we hold in this country as an integral and important part of a global communications system. 
If one casts one's mind back, it was found necessary to use radio direction finding equipment to combat the tank armadas in the last war in the Western Desert and later on in Europe. These were used to knock out a command tank or a communications system so that everybody scattered. In the year 1971 and during the next vital years of the 1970s one would hope that some worthwhile discussion will take place between those 2 opposing global interests, namely the Eastern Bloc countries and the Western Bloc countries in a concept of understanding and peaceful intent. 
Of course, we must take quite the opposite view from that expressed by this American gentleman who tries to tell us what good boys we are and what wonderful fellows the Government members have been in allowing America to build at Pine Gap what they want, when they want. In fact, he spelt out quite clearly that it could well be that the Australian Government and the defence officials of this country may not be aware of what they have let themselves in for by permitting the construction of this base in the centre of this country. I gave consideration to moving the suspension of Standing Orders during the course of the day so that this matter could be debated, but I thought: What would be the good of that; the Government would play the numbers game in relation to it. I think the time has come, because of what has been revealed in the last few hours, to tell the public how they have been hoodwinked. Certain people have written books and articles about this matter and there has been a great deal of speculation as to what is at Pine Gap. We now know what is there. We know what we are up against. We now know that because of its existence we do not have an adequate defence system. This should be the concern of each and every one of us in this place. I would be appreciative if some member on the Government side, either tonight or at some other time during this session, would stand in this House and inform us and the people of this country what is at Pine Gap. The time has arrived when there can no longer be any subterfuge in this respect. 
In fact, it is common knowledge that at Pine Gap there is a great deal of American equipment and that there are a great many American personnel involved in this area of Australia. The people of this country should not be considered to be juvenile in their thinking in regard to this matter. They are not to be considered as secondary. I can only hope at this stage that the Government and those responsible for placing this global communications system there will at least have the courage and the principle to stand up in this House and inform the whole country of our position. Then we can relate it to what we consider ought to be necessary for our own defence instead of acting, in this part of the world, as a defence satellite of the millions of people who live in America, at the expense of the people who live in this country. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Sturt respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Sturt respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 ls arrived at by  a  ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by  a  method of chance ls an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of  a  minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker. I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of the adjournment debate in this chamber last night, in my absence - I had approached my Party Whip because I had to return to Adelaide on a personal matter - in a somewhat delayed reply the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  addressed the House. 
Yes. I understand that last night the Minister for Defence referred to a speech which I had made during the adjournment debate last week and said that 1 had in fact stated that 'we can only suffer as a result of our association with the United States of America'. I suggest to the Minister that he should look at what I said last Thursday night. If he can find those words I would be pleased if he could show me them. I did not use those words during the course of my speech during the adjournment debate last week.  Mr Speaker,  I will let it go at that and ask you please to underline my name on the list of speakers for the adjournment debate tonight. 
I wish to refer to the members of the colonial Cabinet who, when they are all present, sit along the front bench opposite. Last night I could not attend in the chamber because I had to be in Adelaide, but the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  saw fit to reply belatedly to me on a matter I raised in the House last week. I am a little surprised that a Minister of the Crown, who enjoys advantages in the House at all times, should hide behind the adjournment debate to introduce the matter he raised last night. Where is his courage? 1 challenge him to stand here tomorrow and make a ministerial statement about the Pine Gap installation and we on this side of the chamber will most certainly debate the matter; not in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House tomorrow night, but during the course of the day. The Minister for Defence is yapping to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who does not know anything about housing. He would be better occupied listening to me. The fact is that at no time did I suggest that we on this side of the chamber would not have any consideration for anything the Americans would want to do. 
The Minister also had a bit of a crack at me about the fact that I have said I am almost a complete pacifist. I remind the Minister of another pacifist, and I also remind the honourable member for Angas, that great ex-member of the Royal Australian Air Force who is now interjecting from the back benches. In fact, this week they could have attended the John Curtin Memorial Lecture, named after the greatest Prime Minister that this country has ever seen. John Curtin, a pacifist, led this country at its time of greatest peril during World War II. Honourable members opposite have very short memories. 
I do not think I need do more now than quote from an article which appeared in the 'Sunday Australian' of 22nd August. It states: 

 Mr Fairbairn could not by any stretch of the imagination be thought to pose any kind of competitive threat. ... he was so pedestrain  I don't think it could have occurred to anyone that he could lead a government. 
That article was written by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the previous Prime Minister. Let us have another look at the article written by  Mr Gorton.  The honourable member for Farrer, the present Minister for Defence, had gone to the then Prime Minister looking for a plum of office in London. He went looking for a plum job, after suggesting to the Prime Minister that Paris was not good enough. A couple of days after the elections, when he had not done too well, he began to think 'Perhaps London is a little remote and possibly I could win the leadership of the Liberal Party'. He was the first among those who started stabbing in the back. 
I do not want to waste a lot of time on the honourable member for Farrer. I repeat my challenge. I ought to be allotted 20 minutes in this debate tonight because 1 missed out on 10 minutes last night, not that it would take all that long to do the Minister over. I challenge the Minister to stand here tomorrow morning and make a ministerial statement on Pine Gap. I say to him: Do not hide behind the adjournment debate. Use the privileges of this House open to a Minister of the Crown. Stand up and see whether we will debate the matter of Pine Gap. Let us see whether we are not capable of amplifying what we consider to be the correct policy in contradiction to what the Liberals say. You in fact last night in attacking me agreed with what I had to say in regard to the matter, that is, that the bases did not afford any defence to Australia. That is what you did last night. You should read your own report in Hansard. You went off on me last night after I had gone to Adelaide. You say to me: 'AH right, you would like to be extended the courtesy of the House- 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly  Resolution 2603 XX1VA (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid .or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and riot-control' agents. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray. 
That the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
One thing has become most apparent during the course . of the debate Contributions by honourable members on the Government side, from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who has held a number of other portfolios, to the last  speaker  have centred around criticism of the Labor Party Opposition. In their criticism, Government supporters have, of course, from time to time made some very serious allegations about honourable members  on  this side of the House. On 2 or 3 occasions when such remarks have been made some honourable members on the Government side have come across to me and said 'We do not necessarily mean you.' Why I should come in for any different sort of treatment to that received by my parliamentary colleagues, I do not know. But the criticism has been made on the basis that nobody in the Opposition gives one damn about the defence of this country and that nobody in the Opposition in fact gives any consideration to what ought to be done by government in regard to defence. 
Of course, honourable members opposite have harked back to the First World War and the Second World War. During the course of their contributions their main theme has been criticism of the Opposition. So at the risk of being considered repetitive, 1 point out that the Hansard records on the ministerial table in this House contain much information of the activities of the Labor Party in both the First World War and the Second' World War. Labor was the governing Party of the Commonwealth during those crucial years around 1914 to 1919 and subsequently in the early and mid 1940s. There can be no validity whatsoever in this most unjust criticism that is aimed at this side of the House by those on the Government side. One searches one's mind for a reason why they should indulge in this kind of criticism. It is almost a hate session directed at members on this side of the House in which it is alleged that we would sell out the country, that we would have no regard for its defence, that by our opposition to this Bill and by our action in putting forward the amendments we would be reducing the armed forces of the country in peace time to such an extent that it could be considered that we were in fact nothing more than treacherous traitors. As I have already stated, this is quite false. Because the defence of this country was so shocking and so deplorable in the country's hour of need in 2 world conflicts honourable members opposite have to indulge in this type of recrimination against honourable members on this side of the House. 
A former honourable member for Sturt, is, as far as I can ascertain, the only parliamentarian who has forgone his parliamentary career and enlisted in the Services. I do not see any honourable members on the Government side who were perhaps too young to be involved in the conflict from 1939 to 1945, who have resigned what positions they have held in this Parliament to fight in what they consider to be a just war in Vietnam. I do not believe that one should call upon another to do something that one is not prepared to do oneself if one is fit and physically able to carry out the type of duty to which honourable members opposite have subjected the youth of this country during the time they have been in office. 
One hears idle boasts by the Liberal Party machine from time to time that it has gathered to the banners of the Young Liberal Movement large numbers of the youth of this country. I would question the loyalty of these young people because not many of them have gone to Vietnam in accordance with the Government's wishes. 
I rise to support the amendment. I have dealt with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  earlier tonight during the course of this debate and I want to draw to his attention a matter which I have raised in this chamber concerning the shortcomings of the Government in relation to the objections to the National Service Act and to the fact that the Government, during the operation of the Act as we know it in its present form, has failed miserably to make any provisions for objection to service on compassionate grounds. Let me relate to the Minister the case of a widow with 8 children, 6 of whom were going to school. The eldest child who was 19 years of age was selected out of the barrel for national service. 
I made strong representations on behalf of this distressed woman who was losing the eldest child of her family under the National Service Act. The previous Minis ter for Labour and National Service, now the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who is overseas, wrote me great long letters which, of course, contained nothing. He pointed out on a number of occasions that there was just no provision under the Act for a lad to be released ' from his responsibilities to the Government on compassionate grounds. I notice that the Minister has now gone across to the departmental representatives in the chamber. I can only hope that he has received confirmation from his departmental officers that what I am saying is absolutely true. Here again in amending this Act to save its face it has still neglected to pay sufficient and proper regard to the human element in applications for exemption on compassionate grounds. Let me relate another case in which a host of letters were sent by the then Minister for Labour and National Service, one  Mr Snedden.  It concerned a family made up of a mother and her 3 sons. Two of them had already been to Vietnam. Then the third and youngest son was called up. The mother, who was bringing the family up on her own. again appealed for assistance. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbert)  - Order! I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that the proposed clause deals with conscientious objection and not exemption on compassionate grounds. I ask the honourable member to come back to the subject. 
I thought I may get pulled up over that one. Apparently that is what the Minister was whispering about. The proposed clause deals with conscientious objectors. Is there not a degree of conscience in a person's right to. object on behalf of a member of his. .family on compassionate grounds? Under what other clause can I speak on this matter in this debate in the Committee stage? I will conclude on this note because the Government has not the courage to include in this Bill measures which would enable me to speak about exemption on compassionate grounds. You,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  have said that I have no right to address the House on this measure, merely because of the neglect of the Government and the Minister in the preparation of the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member may. move an amendment if he wishes. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister realise that for each I million sheep shorn huge pastoral companies will benefit from the guaranteed wool price plan by at least 8600,000? Will he give consideration to an improved scheme for the benefit of small wool growers relieving them of the need to repay immediately their debt to huge pastoral money lenders, banks, etc.? I further ask: Will firms such as British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd benefit from the wool subsidy plan? Is the Prime Minister in accord with a recent statement by his  Deputy  Prime Minister that an early election will be held in the first half of 1972? Finally, I ask: Is the Prime Minister aware that over Sim has been paid into Country Party funds by huge pastoral interests in the last 2 weeks or 3 weeks? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am somewhat disappointed that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is in charge of this measure, is not in the House. This is typical of his treatment of the industry which he and other Government members profess to support and represent. I wish to draw to the attention of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  certain matters relating to the statement that he madelast night and which he made some belated attempt to correct in this chamber during the course of his contribution this afternoon because of the wrong impression that he had given. 
The honourable member asserted that 10 ships were held up for 9 days or 9 ships were hold up for 10 days in South Australia thus affecting the export of apples from that State. 1 can inform the honourable member that he most certainly is incorrect. In fact, during the season of which he spoke man hours lost on the Port Adelaide waterfront as a percentage of the man hours worked was a mere 1.8 per cent. Those hours were not all lost because of stoppages. If the honourable member saw 10 ships waiting in Port Adelaide in the last 2 years, most certainly he has been on a trip of some sort or been doing something of that nature. 
I wish to make some brief reference to the remarks of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  who spoke in this debate last night. Listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Denison 1 was reminded that he is a doctor. He acts on philosophies. He is a doctor of philosophy. I am reminded further that an apple a day keeps the doctor away. This is what will happen to him if he continues to address the House in the fashion in which he addressed it yesterday evening with regard to his so called support for apple growers. He spoke again of the old bogy of diversification and said that Tasmania could not continue producing apples in greater numbers.  His  colleagues from time to time say that production of sugar in Queensland, cotton in Western Australia and wheat in the southern half of the continent - to give 3 examples - cannot continue. 
I remind the honourable member for Angas who expressed last night his bitterness towards the Premier of South Australia concerning marketing and his attitude towards national marketing schemes that- 
Oh, yes, you did. 
Keep quiet! The honourable member can rise on the adjournment tonight or tomorrow night if he wishes. Is it not a fact that we have a national marketing authority not only for wheat but also for honey and sugar? Was the honourable member not a supporter of the Government - I may .not be quite correct here- 

 Mr FOSTER . . . which set up the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which dealt with this matter some years ago? I refer to page 131 of the report of that Committee. The Government Parties have not yet plucked up sufficient courage to bring this matter of constitutional review before this House for debate so that something may be done on this matter. I ask the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  who is at the table, whether he would agree to the reference to 'Future Marketing Problems' as set out at page 131 of that report being incorporated in Hansard. It is an indictment against the Government. Let me quote from the report briefly, ft completely shatters the arguments of some honourable members opposite in regard to- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! I ask the honourable member to direct his remarks more closely to the subject matter of the Bill before the House. 
Well, I will in that case- 
I will quote briefly, because it will be incorporated, from this report on constitutional review. The report states:  959. The case  tor  a Federal marketing power is all the stronger when probable future developments are taken into account. 
I will say no more than that on that score. On further aspects of this report which relate to the measures before the House and to which consideration might be given by this Government, I also ask to be incorporated in Hansard, if the Minister will agree, the Committee's recommendations in paragraphs 970 and 971 relating to 'Proposed Constitutional Alteration'. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to take the opportunity at this time, if I may, to draw your attention to the fact that during the course of debates in the House recently you had- 
I am raising a point of order in relation to what appeared in yesterday's Hansard and the proceedings of the House yesterday. During the course of the last few days you have drawn the attention of honourable members to the procedure to be followed when they seek to have certain documents incorporated in Hansard. You have said that the members show them to the Minister at the table prior to making such a request. During the course of a speech yesterday afternoon by the honourable member who preceded me I had cause to make some reference to the document dealing with constitutional review. There was no Minister at the table to whom I could have shown this document. 
I beg your pardon. 

 - Mr Speaker, my point of order is this: At the time I had cause to refer to this document there was no Minister at the table. Subsequently a Minister did move from his normal position in this House to the table. 
I wish to ask also for a correction to be made to Hansard. When I first made a request that portion of that document be incorporated in Hansard the Minister agreed. However, it does not appear in Hansard,  Sir. A  few minutes after that occasion I asked that an additional paragraph of the document be incorporated in Hansard. However, on this second occasion leave was not granted. This is supported by the remarks which appear in Hansard relating to the altercation in the House yesterday afternoon as to whether or not there was a Minister at the table. The Minister in charge of the Bill was not in the House. 
 Mr Speaker,  I maintain that Hansard is wrong inasmuch as leave was in fact granted by the Minister who was at the table for portion of the document to be incorporated, but this does not appear in Hansard. I have no quarrel with the second portion because leave on that occasion clearly was not granted. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I ask; What is the position of an honourable member when there is not a Minister in the House or the Leader of the House is absent from the chamber? 
Any Minister? 
 I was not due to speak in this debate until about 9.20 tonight, so perhaps I will not be able to deliver the type of speech that I had intended to deliver. However, I have heard sufficient to realise that we have been listening to nothing more than a great pack of hypocrites. We heard this afternoon- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)- 
This matter has been raised in this chamber on several occasions, and it has been rule that unless an honourable member is referring to a particular member it is is order. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If I had called the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  a hypocrite I would have been out of order, so I will not do that. The first thing that comes to my mind is the type of contribution that has been made in this chamber in the last hour or so relative to the imposition of the wine tax. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  got up and said that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was going to do something about it. Let us examine the position to see what amount of prodding had to be given to the honourable member for Angas before what the Opposition had said about this measure at approximately this time last year got through to his head. A headline in the Adelaide 'Sunday Mail' of 20th March this year stated: 'MHRs told: Act over wine tax'. It was virtually telling the honourable member for Angas and his colleague, the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who is overseas at the present time, to get off their backsides and do something for the industry. A headline in another newspaper stated: 'Crisis looming in wine industry - effect of wine tax'. It appeared in the 'Valley Pioneer', a newspaper which is published in the heart of the electorate of the honourable member for Angas. 
Now we see that the honourable member for Angas, only as a political tactic, has placed on the notice paper a motion relating to this wine tax. He purports to show some concern because he is afraid that the Country Party may take his seat from him at the next election. That is why he has placed the motion on the notice paper. The fact is that last year the Government failed to agree to an amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party which referred to the fact that the imposition of this tax would result in the very situation that has occurred in the wine industry. One gets sick and tired of hearing the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who has just left this chamber after addressing it, saying as he did in the debate last night, that he was strong, big, hefty, capable and able enough to gel up in this chamber and defy his Party. I have searched through Hansard and I have not been able to find one occasion, on one simple matter, on which the honourable member has failed to vote for the Party to which he belongs. I am asked why do I refer to honourable members opposite as hypocrites. As I said to the honourable member for Murray last night- 
No, I have not, but I have not stood up in this Parliament and said that I am going to or that I have done so in the past. That is the difference. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I should think not. Honourable members opposite will have points of order all right. The honourable member for Mitchell who has just left the chamber had his seat gerrymandered for pre-selec- tion purposes within the framework of the Liberal Party in the last few weeks, changing it to a city electorate from a country electorate so that he would get the block vote from the Liberal Party Executive in New South Wales. Honourable members opposite should not come in here playing the role of honest politicians within their party. They make one sick. Tn the last few minutes available to me I want to refer to the great Country Party and the great white god that led them for years who said initially when he came into this House that he was going to have no truck with the Country Party. I refer to  Sir John  McEwen. Time after time he told the House what he was going to do about shipping and the tremendous burden it imposes on primary industry. 
This morning's Press refers to the experimentation in regard to super bales. It is time that the cockies and the wool growers had a look at this question to ensure that some real benefits will flow to the growers as a result of the introduction of these measures. I have a nice, hefty document here which I had proposed to deal with tonight, but time will not permit me to do so. It was something given in 1966 by that once great gentleman,  Sir John  McEwen. What he was not going to do for the shippers of Australia is nobody's business. He was going to prevent these freight increases that have gone up by almost 30 per cent in the last 12 months. He was going to see that there were Australian flag ships on the high seas for the benefit of the shippers and for the benefit of the Commonwealth. None of these things has been done. He was going to institute a type of inquiry that would cure the ills. He said that they were a concern of the Government. That is the headline to his speech. 
We had reached crisis point way back in 1966, and he was going to cure all the ills of the Government and everybody else, according to what appears under the heading. He also said that shipping services and also the containerisation operations and the benefits that would flow from them were to be completely and absolutely surveyed. He gave the first indication that there would be some rationalisation of shipping. What has the rationalisation of shipping done for the shippers of Australia or for our trade? It has done absolutely nothing. I include the Australian flag ships in some regards.  Sir John  McEwen said that awareness of the problem was extremely vital. He said that away back in the year 1966, and still the Government has done nothing about it. The other night Government members voted en masse, and by doing so they refused to give any real consideration to the problems of apple growers in Australia. 
I see no reason why honourable members from the Government parties should stand up here and criticise the matters that I have just dealt with or purport to support the rural industries - whether they be industries producing apples and pears, wheat, wool or wine - when, by their lack of courage, their lack of common sense or the lack of applying themselves as so called public-spirited people, they have sat quietly in the Party room and have done nothing. Referring back to the honourable member for Angas, it is too late after the Budget comes down and after Cabinet has sat in its concrete vault through the months since June, to come into this place and say: 'I will put a measure on the notice paper that is going to cure the ills for us.' The time for the honourable member for Angas to have acted on behalf of his electors in relation to the imposition and the removal of the wine tax was prior to the autumn recess when he should have ensured that his voice was heard at Cabinet level during the time that Cabinet sat in its concrete vault thinking whether or not there should be an early election. The honourable member is doing no more than pulling a type of cheap political trick through the procedures of this Parliament. It is no more than that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - It was an unparliamentary remark. I ask the honourable member to withdraw it. 
I realise that, having said it, I will withdraw it temporarily. But mark this- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- No. 
-I will withdraw it. In doing so 1 will say this to the honourable member for Mallee who says I cannot do this: If the honourable member for Angas is unable to deliver the goods as a result of what he has placed on the notice paper I would feel justified in repeating that remark in this House and applying it perhaps more strongly than I have in the last few moments. 
But I may reintroduce it, for the benefit of the smiling Minister at the table who represents a rural area in Australia that is one of the most poverty stricken in this country. He does nothing about it whatsoever. He runs along to Country Party meetings talking about industrial strikes and the like so that he will not be confronted with the problems within his own interests and within his own Party. 
I am very glad to hear the news that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has just announced. I am sure that every honourable member in the House will be glad also. I rise tonight because I am greatly concerned about what appears in the Hansard record compared with what in fact is said in this House. Of course, I cast no reflection upon the Chair in this regard nor upon the Hansard staff. My complaint is against the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  During the course of a debate in this chamber last week in regard to the answering of questions during question time, either the Prime Minister or somebody in his Department fiddled with the Hansard record. I clearly recall the Prime Minister referring last week to the port of Kalgoorlie. I clearly recall you,  Mr Speaker,  calling me to some sort of order after I had interposed to say that in fact there is no port at Kalgoorlie, but that does not appear in Hansard. That part of the Hansard record was fiddled with.  Mr Speaker,  would you extend to me the right to fetch my tape recorder here during the course of the debates next week so that I can tape record what the Prime Minister says in answer to questions and check that tape recording against what appears in the Hansard record the following morning? 
Yes. 
This is a different matter,  Mr Speaker. 
During the course of my address to the House tonight I did intend to say that I was in error this morning, as I said to the Principal Parliamentary Reporter,  Mr Bridgman,  after checking the tape. There was some confusion yesterday afternoon when I sought leave to have some matter incorporated in Hansard. Quite a number of people were interposing and what have you. If you can assure me,  Mr Speaker,  that the corrections made by the Prime Minister to answers given by him to questions during question time this morning can in fact be corrected to the extent of the italics placed on the greens by the Prime Minister, somebody on his staff or somebody in the Department, I will accept that. Otherwise I would have no alternative other than to suggest that the only way around it would be that the corrected version be placed in Hansard and the italics of the Prime Minister be shown in such a way that the people can see what he actually said as against what he thinks he ought to have said after he has had an opportunity to look at the greens. 
This is not the first occasion on which something of this nature has occurred. I must make some further criticism of the Prime Minister in view of the fact that prior to his occupying his present position he was widely known and widely reported in quite a number of newspapers as having attained the art of altering Press statements and what have you here and there. Having made public speeches, public statements in which he has said some rather foolish things, and then having realised later that he has said these things, or probably having been informed by a member of his staff, he would hurriedly race to a telephone and get in touch with the particular department so that his remarks could be vetted, checked, doctored, altered, call it what you like. He has done that in regard to Treasury matters that he has raised over the years. A more recent case was when he made so many boo-boos in statements about the visit to China of the Australian Labor Party delegation that he wanted a particular government department to give them its blessing by having them issued at departmental level. I do not think he was so victorious in that regard. But he has the right, as any other honourable member in this chamber has the right, to alter the Hansard greens to some extent. I am sure,  Mr Speaker,  that you would agree that nobody in this chamber, Prime Minister or otherwise, has the right to insert additional words which take the matter completely out of context and give a different version altogether. 
Honourable members who want to question this practice have quite some considerable burden placed upon them. I would not want to make a nuisance of myself to the Parliamentary Reporting Staff by going down after each question time to listen to the tape, but it would appear that until such time as the Prime Minister is prepared to give an assurance to this House that he will not fiddle with the Hansard record we have no alternative but to do that. I think that would be a pretty correct assessment of the situation. One cannot take down in shorthand what the Prime Minister is saying at the table in answer to questions and then remember it to check it against Hansard the next day. If a copy of the greens of the Prime Minister's answers at question time could be made available to members pretty early in the day, then perhaps we would be in a better position to recollect our thoughts and then perhaps have some recourse to the tape. But I would hate to see the position arise where that was the only way in which we could check. God knows where the Prime Minister is at this point of time; perhaps he is in bed, but the fact is that he is not in the chamber tonight. No doubt he will hear about it. 
I want to quote, if 1 may, the answer Which he gave to a question this morning. He said: 
The Opposition disagrees. Equally too do we believe in taking part in the security developments of the whole of the South East Asian area. 
He has in fact inserted after 'The Opposition disagrees' the words 'They will withdraw the troops'. Then the answer continues 'Equally too' and so on. Of course, earlier he had made some alteration by inserting, in lieu of 'members of the Liberal Party on this side of the House in the coalition Government', the words 'Liberal members on this side of the House in the coali tion Government'. Then, if I read it correctly, he inserted something about the security of the country. Further on, on the subsequent page, he included after the words ANZUS Treaty' the words 'The Government's', so that it reads: 'The Government's agreements with the Americans will be maintained.' Further down, if I read it correctly, after dealing with the platform of the Labor Party he added quite a number of words to convey quite a different impression from what in fact he had given to the House this morning. 
It is for this reason that I rose to speak tonight. I only hope that as a result of my raising this matter, in future the Prime Minister will be more honest than he has been in the past in relation to questions that he has answered. Of course, one would hope that he would have more confidence in his ability - if he has any ability - and not resort to this type of subterfuge and correction to make his own end look much better than it was. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. My question is: Why, since the late Harold Holt's holding of that position, have successive Ministers administering that Department seen fit to criticise the organisations for which, of course, the Department must accept some responsibility? I further ask the Minister: Will he show the same respect to industrial organisations with which his ministry is concerned, and treat them in the same way, as, say, the Minister for Customs and Excise treats members of the organisations to which, of course, his Department is responsible? We do not see the Minister for Customs and Excise criticising every customs agent in the country. Therefore, I again direct the question to the Minister: Why does he adopt the attitude which he does towards those organisations that come within his Department? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, this Government has a policy of utter discrimination so far as education is concerned. During the course of the debate this evening, one has sat here and listened somewhat patiently to members on the other side frequently say that because expenditure has increased one year in comparison with that in the previous year, they - with their thumbs in the lapel attitude - have done all they could possibly do for education.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I want first of all to complain very bitterly about the fact that we get only 10 lousy minutes in this debate in which to discuss the Department of Education and Science and the explanations of the estimates for 1970-71 which number 130-odd pages. Coupled with that is the ministerial statement which takes in a study and survey of education in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory generally. It is just not possible for us to cover all those matters in the time allocated. I believe that the number of minutes that are provided for us by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  for this debate is totally inadequate and matches, admirably or otherwise, the Government's effort towards meeting the educational requirements of the young people of this nation. 
During the course of last 12 months I have visited many, many schools in my electorate. I went to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is at the table tonight, and endeavoured to get his consent to the incorporation of some of the submissions of those schools in Hansard. But the Minister wiped me off as he has been wiping off the problems of education for some time. I would extend to the present Minister, who at one time- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 
Why did he not say so before instead of taking up my time? It was not only that. I have submissions from Campbelltown High School, Stradbroke Primary School and Highbury Primary School which are in my electorate. In fact, I have submissions from almost every primary and high school throughout mv electorate. The preparation of these submissions was brought about by a meeting that was called during the winter recess by the parents and friends organisation and the Institute of Teachers in South Australia. The then Minister, who is now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  finally, with some reluctance attended that meeting and no doubt he got the story, if he read the signs correctly, as to what the meeting of almost 2,000 people thought of the manner in which he addressed them on that occasion. What was said by the Minister was indicative of what has been said here today - the Government does not want to pursue the question of education. So I ask the Minister for Education and Science now whether he is prepared to visit South Australia as his predecessor was not. 
He was not game enough, and this is recorded in the minutes of the meeting that the honourable member attended. Surely the honourable member's memory is a little better than that? The honourable member for Angas who is interjecting knows that perfectly well. Anyway, he is out of seat. Put him out,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The fact is this: The former Minister for Education and Science went to South Australia, but he dodged the issue by not inspecting actual school conditions. He was challenged in that regard - 
He went there and he only attended a meeting. Just listen to me. He attended a meeting, somewhat reluctantly, but he backed off completely from a request by the State Minister for Education, Hugh Hudson, to familiarise himself with the schools and the conditions of schools in South Australia, conditions which have been brought about by the attitude of this Federal Government down through a great number of years. 
What then does the Government propose to do about the gap of $l,443m? This money is considered necessary for education over the next 5 years? The Minister was given a pamphlet on this matter but he probably stuffed it into his brief case and did no more than that about it. What does the Government propose to do? Certainly, whilst the Government has increased expenditure in some fields of education it still is not making any real provision for many of the schools in most of the States of the Commonwealth. It is merely paying lip service to the idea. The line of last year's figures is being held. The Government is doing no more than that. Where is the massive grant that ought to be given to the whole range of education in Australia, about which we have heard talk? No provision is made for this in the estimates for forthcoming years. These massive grants are not (here. 
It is all right for Government members to rise and to say that this is a problem for the States and that the Commonwealth has given the money to the States. Who the hell collects the most money in the country? The Commonwealth Government does. What does the Commonwealth want to do? Does it want to sit on a great pile of gold? The honourable member for Angas asked: 'Where are you going to get the money from?' 'Where has the money gone?', is a better question. 
The money has gone on Vietnam. Amounts of money totalling millions of dollars appear in the estimates under consideration. People probably think that these estimates set out expenditure on education for students and children and the provision of facilities. But bound up in these estimates is a domestic conversion worth half a million dollars. An appropriation of $45,000 with respect to the crown.crownofthorns starfish appears in these estimates. So it goes on and on. The estimated expenditure for the Anglo-Australian telescope that is being built is included also. 
The Estimates that are under discussion at the moment should spell out correctly and properly in the figures presented where we are heading so far as the betterment of education for the student children of this country is concerned. More than Si 30m would be needed to eliminate all the temporary classrooms in South Australia alone and to provide some form of decent accommodation. What attention is being paid to this pile of submissions that I hold aloft now from primary and secondary schools in my electorate? I say to the Minister at the table: What do you propose to do about the actual size of classes in 
South Australia? Do you propose to do anything about this matter? If this matter is not included in this Budget - and the Minister has not done this so far - he is unlikely to do it. 
Some members on the Government side have spoken of the additional increase to non-government schools. If time would permit, I could go to my office in this parliamentary building and fetch down to the Committee letters from the heads of nongovernment schools in South Australia. They express opinions of utter disgust because of the action of this Government. The false promises of this Government have been confirmed by its action in this field. The Government has used this section of the community completely to achieve office. It is using the minds of children to achieve office. That is all that its action amounts to. 
The Government has done nothing real and tangible in this field with respect to lower private schools - the St Joseph Orders and so forth - which are in the electorates of many honourable members. Can any say those schools have received sufficient assistance from the Commonwealth Government? Of course they cannot. Can anyone say that the Federal Government has paid proper regard to what it ought to have done as far as the States are concerned? Can any sane person or any reasonable thinking person accept the attitude of Government members who have risen one after the other and said that, because Commonwealth expenditure on education has been greater in a certain year, the Commonwealth must be doing something for education? 
What is the good of Government members continually rising and saying that as far as education and a whole host of other matters, including hospitalisation, health and what-have-you - if I may transgress for a short moment,  Mr Deputy Chairman  - are concerned, the problem is one for the States? The Commonwealth is the main taxing authority. Most of taxation money collected comes into the Commonwealth which should accept its proper responsibility over a whole range of fields none of which is more important than education. Nothing is more important than education. 
Nothing is more depressing than to go into primary schools particularly and see evidence of the concept that we still retain that with good parents and teachers organisations and good welfare committees certain equipment can be obtained but that if these bodies do not exist a school can go begging for this equipment. In the last  12  months in South Australia, the State Government has altered this concept to some extent by making grants available to schools. I cannot recall the figure at the moment. This means that each and every type of school receives something for this type of activity whether or not an active school committee is at work. It ought to be and it should be the responsibility of this Government to do these things. 
Honourable members opposite have hung on to office for  21  years by subterfuge and dishonesty. It is time that the Government realised the need for Commonwealth action. The Minister has been given back the crumb of this portfolio. The portfolio is a crumb from a little fellow who is now Prime Minister and who made the promise to give the portfolio to the Minister provided he drove a knife into John Gorton's back. That is how the Minister comes to be Minister - with a big dagger. Now he has used the dagger and brought forth blood, let him get down to the real job for which this country pays him damn near  $30,000  a year and let him- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1  am informed that he gets  $45,000  a year. It is time that he got down to using that money for the benefit of the people- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Yes, I will resume my seat,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I had not noticed that my time was gone. 
During the course of question time yesterday afternoon I directed a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  In his answer - and I am not having a shot at Hansard tonight - he said:   . . it  is  the proper function of a Minister for Labour and National Service to be critical of trade unions where he and his Government believe that criticism is justifiable. Equally, he should be critical of the employers where he believes that that criticism is justifiable. 
He went on to say: 
. we as a Government recognise the need to establish a satisfactory legislative environment in which industrial relations can be effectively ordered. . . .  and so forth. I want to say this to the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is now at the table. If this is the intention and policy of the Government, is it not time that the Government started thinking about putting that into effect? Is it not time that the Government started thinking that those in trade unions represent a very large percentage of the wage and salary earners within the community, both white collar and blue collar workers? Is is not time that the Department of Labour and National Service started to regard them as citizens of the Commonwealth? Is it not time that the Department started to regard them as, in fact, human beings? 
If the Government's record is so good, why is it that legislation which is known as the subsidised medical health scheme has been introduced into this House on behalf of another Government Department? The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has exploded the myths of that scheme in the last few days in this House. The fact is that the whole intent of that legislation is to afford some form of protection, health-wise, to low salary and wage earners. If the Government was so concerned about the legislative environment, there would be no need in this country to introduce such shocking legislation as the subsidised medical health scheme. 
I will say no more about that,  Mr Speaker,  other than to refer to it in making my point, which is this: Had this Government measured up to its responsibilities, there would be no need to place legislation on the statute book to afford such protection in so-called fringe areas, because one of the concerns of the Government ought to be that an adequate and proper wage is paid to these people 
What good is this Government doing in coming into this chamber and relying on Dorothy Dix questions aimed at Ministers from back bench members? Notes are practically being passed around the chamber to give certain Ministers an opportunity to air their knowledge in regard to industrial relations when they do not know the first thing about it. If they do know anything about the subject, it is time they started to put their knowledge into real and proper practice. It is just not good enough for so-called responsible members of this Government, from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  down, to speak in this chamber week after week in the manner in which they have in their criticism of the trade unions, when throughout the length and breadth of this country we have industrial organisations whose members have been going on strike in order to increase their weekly salaries from $46 to $47. Some of the lowest paid people within the community are employed in service industries at the governmental level. The Postmaster-General's Department still employs some of the lowest paid salary earners. Forget for the moment the average wage or lor that matter the average weekly male wage and bear in mind that the Government is a direct employer of some of the lowest paid workers in Australia today. Honourable members opposite stand up in this chamber and say that they will create a legislative environment. 
Let me say this to the Minister: The only industrial legislation of any note that this Government has introduced has been legislation against organisations within the industrial field. Just have a look at the Commonwealth's role so far as the Public Service is concerned relative to the additional week's leave. What has the Government or its predecessors done about this? Look at the shocking manner in which the Commonwealth has treated the professional engineer through the Commonwealth Public Service Board. This Government is not prepared to lift a finger to overcome industrial disputation in that calling. 
In the last 3 years, industrial and professional organisations in this country which have taken up the strike weapon as their only means of defending their rights and putting forward their just demands have never previously gone on strike. They were never known to go on strike before but they have gone on strike under this Government in the last few years. This is indeed an indictment of the Government. It is not good enough for the Minister - as his predecessors have done - to make statements in this House week after week or to make announcements during recess periods on how well off the Australian worker is. Let me tell the Minister that measured in actual money values the take home pay of the Australian worker is much less than that of a comparable West German worker. Let me also say to the Miniser that some Australian workers are much worse off in money values and in the quality of life which they can obtain for the wage they take home each week than workers in some comparable industries in Japan. I refer to those industries in Japan which pay some regard to the quality of life of their employees. I do not refer to all industries in Japan. 
Mark my words,  Mr Speaker,  neither the Minister nor the Government will fool the workers and the salary earners of this country by their continual clap-trap and subversive legislation against trade unions. 
It is not good enough for this Government to come into this chamber from time to time, sneaking in through the back door as it were, after it has denied the right of some industrial organisations to approach employers in the correct manner in regard to some form of industrial agreement. Recently, a strike took place in South Australia and it was one of the most shocking strikes as far as government was concerned. But this Government did not lift a finger to ensure that there was any real requirement in any Act which would force the parties to even speak to one another. Many agreements have voluntary provisions in them to enable talks to take place but they collapse around one's ears. 
As one with some wide experience in the stevedoring industry which the Minister regards as having been extremely turbulent for many years, I can say to the Minister that he will never cure the problems of this industry by imposing pains and penalties. Honourable members should remember that this Government was responsible for one of the most vicious hostage systems. It was a real system of industrial hostages as far as the Stevedoring Industry Act was concerned. Did it lessen stoppages in any shape or form? It certainly did not. Peace has been brought about in the stevedoring industry - an industry which has had its rough passages even in the last few years - by the most vicious industrial legislation ever put on the statute books. This legislation was put on in 1965 when the present Prime Minister was the leader of the department concerned. The intent of that legislation was to deregister the union involved but it went one vicious step further than that. The union was a Commonwealth wide federation and the legislation made provision for one of the State branches of that union to opt out of the federation and shelter itself under the wing of the Department of Labour and National Service. But no-one fell for that. It was at a time when the industry was turbulent. In fact, the actions of the Government completely united a number of quarrelling factions at that time. From it, of course, arose a proper concept of a proper industrial agreement and it did away with many of the conciliation and arbitration measures that were designed - so-called - to bring about the end of industrial disputes. 
The old provision for boards of reference caused more disputes and still continues to cause more disputes and more lost man hours than any other aspect of industry. I would never ever use them because their use would simply mean that no one would create further bother. I ask the Minister to have a look at this type of agreement that is coming up for more than review so far as this industry is concerned. I would prevail upon him, having regard to the particular state of that industry at the moment, measured in terms of the number of men required on the waterfront today and the number which may be required in the future, to ensure that his Government does not interfere with the rights of the trade union and the employer to negotiate in a right and proper manner for the interests of the people and the humans in the industry and the interests, of course, of the whole community. Would the Government put legislation on the books for compulsory retirement because of a redundant situation? Would it retire men at 60 years of age- 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the value of gifts of works of art, such as paintings, made to Australian universities, can be claimed as a concessional deduction for income tax purposes. 
Is it also a fact that similar gifts made to other educational institutions and, in. particular, to independent girls' schools and colleges, .are not entitled to a similar concession. 
If so, will be take positive steps without delay to remove this discrimination against these educational institutions. 
I hope that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  will remain in his seat for the next few minutes. 
I mean his parliamentary seat in this chamber. He has made a speech in this chamber tonight that was designed purely and simply for his electorate. Here he sits and here he will cast his vote tonight in favour of the measure now before this House, without any qualms or thought or anything of that nature. But he will cart the Hansard record of his speech around the electorate that he now holds like a Bible and. when the crunch comes a little later, he will say on the street corners: This is what I said: this is what I did. My colleagues would not agree with me.' He has made a speech in this House tonight purely and simply for his own selfish political ends. Why did he not stand in this House tonight and say: 'We have suffered. My Party has brought upon the rural industry 20 years of absolute rural betrayal.' That is the way an honest person would have spoken. The honourable member made cheap, snide remarks against members of the Opposition, including myself. Unfortunately,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  your attention was distracted for a moment and he took advantage of that and you apparently did not hear what he said. That does not worry me in the least. The honourable member made some reference to King William Street farmers or Pitt Street farmers. Let me say this to the honourable member: It appears that he does not know that he may have been getting somewhere near the truth because the provisions of this Bill will pour hundreds of thousands of dollars into the pockets of the Anthony Horderns in the city streets of Sydney. Why did he not point that out? Why did he not oppose this measure? This Bill will allow the taxpayers' money - not the Government's money - to be pourned into the pockets of absentee landowners in this country. Make no error about that, lt will pour millions of dollars into the pockets of the wool barons and the brokers, not the battlers. The honourable member for Kennedy, who was the last supporter of the Government to speak on this matter, mentioned this specific provision, and he will accept it. However, the honourable member for Kennedy, with the narrow view that he holds, will protect himself by inserting certain words in the Hansard record. Why did he not underline the following words which appeared in the Ministers second reading speech: 
The payments mechanism will depend upon the active co-operation of persons carrying on business as brokers, registered classing houses, wool merchants and agents who export wool, or who sell wool by tender on behalf of producers. 
There could be written into that provision the subversives, Bagots, shakes and lizards, New Zealand magnates, the ship owners and the whole host of vampires who have been feeding on the wool growers for years. The honourable member wants members on this side of the House to support a measure, camouflaged as it is, which has been introduced into this House and which purports to help the wool grower. The honourable member for Kennedy will vote for a clause like the one to which I have referred. You ought to be ashamed of yourself for ever and a day. Why did you not protest? 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order!  I suggest that the honourable member address his remarks to the Chair. 
I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the fact that this clause is in the Bill. It is an indictment against you or the Party which you represent because in the Bill there has not been inserted one single clause which will guarantee that the overloaded producer - the producer who is loaded with debt, with stock mortgages and land mortgages - will get one cent in bis own pocket. There is no provision which protects such a person in his own individual right. It is not in there, and the Minister knows it. 
The honourable member for Cowper has not spoken in this debate. You get up afterwards and tell me where you can see that in this Bill. Where does it say that the grower and the battler in the industry is really protected and is afforded some protection. You tell me where in this measure a producer with a wife and 4 children, 3 of whom are going to school, is guaranteed one cent? Where is it in this measure before the House? You cannot do it because of the one section of the Minister's second reading speech to which 1 have referred and which indicates to me quite clearly that the battler and the producer on the line have to beg cap in hand for their money from the brokers. Look at it - do what you like. That is what it means. You tell me differently. 1 have made the challenge. You tell me where the situation is different. 
But for every 1 million sheep that Dalgety's, Goldsborough Mort, British Tobacco Ltd and others run in this country, they will make $600,000. I directed a question, did 1 not, last week to the Minister for Primary Industry, who is not in the House at the moment. I cannot see him any way. He is not in the House at the moment. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  is at the table. The Minister may be hiding under a razor blade; I do not know. The fact. is that the Minister did not deny in reply to my question last week that Country Party funds had gained Sim from Goldsborough Mort, Elder Smith and so forth. Why should they not get this assistance? They are the people that you are protecting. 
I do not have to prove it. I cannot prove it. I admit that. I cannot prove it. I will admit that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Orders! Interjections are out of order. The honourable member for Maranoa has spoken already. 
I have not access to the bank accounts. I have not access to the safes Which they sneak to and stuff with their credit notes in the hours of darkness. You will not carry a measure in this House that will have the effect of disclosing such things. 
Where is the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the moment? He is not in the House either. What a grandstand he made last year. Let me remind the House of what he said. This article reads: 
On 25th March 1970 the former Minister for Defence informed the 10,000 farmers who assembled in Melbourne, that, 'acquisition is the only sensible way to market the Australian wool clip,' and that, 'he would work his guts out for the industry'. 
Those are his words. He worked his guts out, kicking Gorton's guts out. That is what he did. His words are here. That is exactly what he did. Let me go on a little further with this quotation because this happened not so long ago, did it, when all is said and done. The gallant right honourable gentleman is not in the House either. This article continues: 
Then on 29lh April 1970 he advised the 1,200 wool growers assembled at Narrandera 'not to be put off by a 15 or 20 per cent rise in prices in August or September' and that, 'he and his Cabinet colleagues would work their guts out to find a solution to the problems of the industry*. 
As my colleague interjects: 'They had more guts than performance' or they said they did, anyway. I will quote further from this document. It states: 
Apparently he did just that, and is now a backbencher representing one of the vulnerable rural electorates. 
We in this House all know that he has got around to becoming a junior Minister in Cabinet. I spell his name with- a 'z' because I think that he is 'zero' in the Cabinet. 
I am talking about Fraser. This article continues: 
On 10th August last the Member for the Federal Electorate of Mitchell,  Mr L.  H. Irwin, M.H.R.- he has spoken in (his debate tonight -   . . warned the then Prime Minister of Australia by telegram, copy of which was published on the front page of  a  Sydney newspaper that same day, that any attempt by the Government to interfere with the free and open wool marketing auction system could bring about the disintegration of the Liberal Party and the downfall of the Government. 
And, that night while being interviewed on a national television broadcast  Mr Irwin  stated we licked 'em before and we will lick 'em again'. 
What great attention to wool growers you have paid. There is no doubt about you fellows. Let me deal with some other further matters- 
Now, an honourable member has interjected to ask something about the waterside workers. They copped the measure of the shipowners years ago and got what they ought to have got from them. It is about time that you got off your posterior and got for the people you represent their just deserts from the 'shipowners'. But you will never do that either, will you? Of course you will not. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I suggest that the honourable member direct his remarks to the Chair and ignore interruptions. 
But you have not heard me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Is it not about time that you fellows over on that side of the House thought about marketing wool on behalf of wool growers and not brokers? Why do you not give some thought to this? Is it not time that you started to market wool on behalf of growers and not bankers, speculators and shipowners? Why not think of the producers now and again? 
You draw the line. I do not have to draw it. You have been in government for 20-odd dreary years- 
... and you along with them,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  They ought to draw the line, not me. That is not my function. I support the amendment because of the fact that I do not agree with what the Minister said to this House a few days ago. He said the whole idea of the scheme was that it would treat equally all in the industry. He would not have a bar of applying a means test within the industry. But it is all right to apply a means test to the poor old pensioner. There is nothing wrong with applying a means test to the battler. There is nothing wrong with that at all. 
As I said before - and I am going to repeat it - is there any one member on the Government side who is prepared to examine this matter on the basis of figures which surely must be available - figures with some degree of near accuracy - in regard to the number of sheep that a particular grower might shear and how much he is going to get? Is it right that the people of this country, the taxpayers, ought to have this levied against them? This Bill is not, as they are being told by the Government, a measure to assist the industry but is merely to see go out of this country what can be considered large sums of money to absentee land owners. 
Is it right that the Australian Medical Association which is running a lot of sheep - you know that, if you want to examine it further - ought to be able to touch the Government on this matter as it touched them with regard to the health scheme? Are you going to let them touch you on this Bill? That is what you are doing. I come back to the interjection made by the honourable member for Kennedy. Anthony Horderns is keeping sheep. Tt is going to shear them. It is in the rag trade. It is in big business. It is not relying on this industry for its living. Why then should you not make some distinction with regard to large and small owners? What is wrong with that concept? I ask you: What is wrong with that concept? 
It does not work! You mean to tell me that you cannot define who runs the sheep in this country? What you ought to be doing is pouring the money not into the measure that is before the House but, if you are to benefit the battler and the smaller grower, what you ought to be doing is seeing that he does receive something from this measure. In many cases these people will not get a zac out of this Bill. You might as well put the money straight into a bank and say to this fellow: 'Here, mate. Your land is now freehold.' You should settle his mortgage for him because you are not helping him at all. Is it right also that, by this measure, the Government will ensure that the high percentage of freight rates that exist will continue to be levied through certain agreements on trade and what have you to which this Government is a party? Is it right that the corner of the shipowners will be guaranteed but that the growers' corner will not be guaranteed? 
He says: 'What are you talking about?' I do not know how you keep wearing the size hat that you wear. The fact is this: You have been a member here longer than I have. You should know that the conference line shippers are going to get their pound of flesh. You were here last week. Surely you must have heard it said on this side of the House- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! 

It was not denied,  Mr Deputy  Speaker-that the apple growers would receive a bill instead of a cheque as a reward for their efforts in sending their fruit overseas. I see the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  nodding his head in agreement as he has on many occasions previously in this type of debate. Yet you ask me, and reveal your absolute ignorance, why I make the statement that the shipowners will get their corner. The shipowners are guaranteed their pie. They are guaranteed the benefit from the freight charges on woo), ever increasing as they are. There is no doubt about that. Whatever the price of wool is, the shipowners will receive their freights. The point I make to honourable members for their benefit is that there is no guarantee to the grower as fas as that aspect is concerned. 
Another aspect of the whole matter is that the grower has been denied any direct benefit from technological changes that have been brought about in the industry and in handling methods. I do not know how many times that one has to stand up in this House and raise the question of containerisation so far as wool is concerned. If anyone with any sense at all sets out to convince me that it is necessary to put wool in to containers, he will spend a life time endeavouring to do so. A system of banding is in operation in many of the woo) dumping areas of the Commonwealth. Machinery has been installed in Adelaide over the last 2 years at considerable cost to the taxpayer but the Commonwealth does not own it. Who owns it? Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that the barons, the wool brokers and burglars own it. 
The burglars, the barons and the wool brokers. They own this machinery which has been given to them on a plate. The use of this high density dumping machine and its associated machinery means that 6 bales can be put on the ground and banded. This secures the bales ready for shipment. Do you get that,  Mr Minister?  The bales are banded together. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  who is sitting at the table, represents a country electorate, but looks as if he does not know or understand what is being said. We can continue to band the bales together until such time as we have them in lots of 6, 18, 36, 72 and so forth. Having done that we can completely mechanise the whole of the handling operations of that wool. Right, has the Minister got that point? We can lift the bales by forklift to the wharf area. We do not have a dozen men handling the load and stacking it. In fact, one man can handle the load of wool which is banded together and which can be put into any size lots that one wants. 
In Brisbane, I might mention, for the benefit of a bloke that comes from Queensland, there has been a shipment in one single lift of some 370 bales. This was achieved in one hit. What restriction is there to the loading of wool in a concept such as this? There are 2 restrictions. 
No. Only 4 men are employed on the job. I am trying . to get that through the head of the honourable member. I ask him not to pull his hand out of his ear for goodness sake. 
There are only  2  restrictions that limit the loading of wool by this method. The first is the capacity of the gear that is lifting the load. One can use a great jumbo crane which can lift up to 200 or 300 tons. The second restriction is the size of the hatchway through which the wool passes into the vessel. For the benefit of the honourable member for Kennedy I explain that this is called the aperture. These are the only 2 restrictions. That is the only determining 
You were on the wharf once. You were a member of the Communist Party on the wharf once. The honourable member does not deny it, what is more. But the fact is that these are the only 2 limiting factors. 
What benefit has flowed to the grower from this increased mechanisation? Where we used to have some 30 men loading wool in single bale lots which were put into a vessel 6 at a time the number of men required to handle the job now is perhaps down to as low as 4. Imagine the wage cost of employing 30 men, and look at the tremendous saving that is now being achieved. Look at it from the point of view that whereas almost 400 ships handled the run between the United Kingdom-Continental ports and Australia the number will be reduced to 70 in a matter of months. Look at the reduction in the number of turnrounds; look at the saving in costs. In addition, these ships do not carry the same number of crew as they used to carry. I have said it before, and I do not know how many times I have to say it again, but you fellows sit over there, you go quiet, you listen but do nothing about it. Honourable members opposite do not embark upon any form of inquiry and allow this shocking neglect to go on. The grower ought to be up on his feet and punching hell out of honourable members opposite to force them to do something on his behalf. 
The super bale has come into being. Why is it that someone who says he supports the industry and the battlers, the workers and the producers does not demand from the super bale a greater return to the grower? What is wrong with this? Is it because of the fact that honourable members opposite only hoodwink the grower and take for granted this man who has been their backstop and consider him as part and parcel of their own properties? However, they have regard for the broker and the big or giant middle man, the parasite on those in the industry, as being more important. 
I end on the note that honourable members opposite are guilty. They have betrayed this industry; they have betrayed it for 20-odd years. It is time they had sufficient courage to do something on the growers' behalf instead of lousily bringing in measures like this that purport to do something for them when in fact honourable members opposite are selling them down the drain and coming to the- 
Thank you  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.26 a.m. (Friday) 
 I do not want to take a great deal of time tonight because of the fact- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: That the question be now put. Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, many times, and I take a point on this issue. 1 appreciate,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that you were not abie to be in the chamber during the debate on this matter, but a question was asked this afternoon dealing with an amount of money which is likely to go to Dalgety's as a result of the measure that was debated in this House. I claim to have been misrepresented on the basis that I raised this matter with the Prime Minister about a week before the introduction of the Bill. 1 will come to my point,  Mr Acting Speaker,  if you are getting a little anxious. The Prime Minister refused to answer the question. It was then taken up by his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry, but he was unable to inform this House whether my allegation was true. Tt is true. 
Who is out of order? 
Thank you for telling me. 
I have done so. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, during the course of the last few hours we have witnessed the departure of our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on a little jaunt overseas. No doubt he is floating around in mid-air tonight, and he has left behind him an economy in a similar situation. During the course of the last week, because of the announced unemployment figures, I directed a telegram to the right honourable absent gentleman - absent in thought and absent in mind - concerning the intolerable situation that his Government has brought about in this country. I remind him that since his short time as Prime Minister the number of people on the dole in Australia has increased by SO per cent. Of course, he never had the courtesy to answer the telegram that I directed to him.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I wish that at some time you would tune in to these honourable members on my left who are interjecting - and I understand that you have some association with the particular Party which they represent - and pull them into gear. They should not be so cheeky. After all, in 1969 they received less than 8 per cent of the total votes cast across the Commonwealth. They have a hell of a lot to say in here, when such a small percentage of people voted for them. 
However, the Prime Minister is absent from this chamber tonight, and he has left behind him a most deplorable situation in this country. From what one hears when moving around one's own electorate and beyond at this point of time, I do not think that there has been less confidence in the community generally than there is at the present time. Of course, the Prime Minister, as a result of action taken by his Government since it has been in office and indeed by the Cabinet before the one which we now see sitting on the front bench, has increased interest rates to a figure that has placed an intolerable burden on the average wage and salary earner and on the average young person in the community, and probably has placed the acquisition of their own homes far beyond the reach of these people. 
Recently we heard the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  the injured right wing of the Liberal Party - he is not in the chamber at the moment, or at least I cannot see him - criticising a recent wage decision made in favour of some section of the building industry. He immediately flew off into print and said - he also stated it on television - that increased costs will flow to home owners as a result of the wage increase. Of course, he has forgotten completely that far greater increases have been inflicted on this particular sector of the building industry - on cottage and home building - through the imposition, by his Government, of increased interest rates in March of last year and again in the budgetary proposals this year. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has been overseas in connection with the Australian economy. He has been back in Australia for a week now. He came back to Australia, put his foot up on the nearest bar he could find and said that the economy was not crook. He said that everything else was crook but not the economy and that we should talk about instilling confidence in the economy by saying that it was not crook. The Parliament has been sitting since yesterday afternoon but the Treasurer has not uttered one word concerning what he intends to do about the economy. Honourable members should be concerned with the intolerable situation that exists at present. The unemployment figure will exceed 100,000 by this Christmas. The situation is more intolerable when one realises that a far greater number of people are involved, despite the clap-trap we heard in this chamber yesterday about seasonal figures. If the figures concerning wage and salary earners were related to the fact that the great percentage of them are married, it would be realised that 300,000 to 400,000 men, women and children will be on the dole within the new few months, yet the Government refuses to do anything about it. 
AH manner of measures are introduced into this chamber. If a rural industry is in trouble - I do not say this critically - members opposite rush to its aid. No Government supporter, certainly not the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is now lounging back in his seat and wearing a pale pink tie, has suggested increasing the amount of weekly payment to those men, women and children who will be out of work and idle as a result of the Government's inattention, inactivity and almost stupidity. Has the Government given any consideration to the high rates of interest that these people must pay on their mortagages? Certainly not! The Government should show the same consideration for these people as it shows tor other sections of the community. The Minister for Social Services has held his protfolio for some considerable time. He gains some free publicity in the Press by paying lip service to some proposals. He has suggested that there should be a national superannuation scheme. He has made some criticism of his Government from time to time and of its attitude to his own Department. If he has the courage of his convictions why does he not move in this House to correct the ills of which he accuses his Government? He is not sincere or he would do this. He has no sincerity in this regard. He is, of course, following the line that his colleagues have followed for so many years in respect of almost every aspect of policy that I have ever mentioned. They pay sufficient lip service to such proposals as to con sufficient people to return them to office. 
This fetches me to the question of assistance to the wool industry. This afternoon I had something to say on this topic and when I sought leave to make a personal explanation I thought that you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  were a bit rough on me in that you never let me get really off the ground. During the course of the debate on the legislation to provide assistance to the wool industry Opposition members wanted to know whether specific provision was made whereby the wool growers would benefit from that legislation without any tags attached. This afternoon a question was asked by an honourable member who is, unfortunately, not present at the moment. 
I shall not take umbrage at that interjection. The honourable member is present, but 1 did not see him. He asked a question that members of the Opposition have asked, but not one member of the Government has had the guts or courage to get up and say that we have been wrong in what we have suggested. If we were wrong, members opposite should tell us so. Why do members opposite not refute the statements that appeared this morning in a Western Australian newspaper in a letter from a  Mr Pedlow  of Claremont who headed it 'Government "hypocrisy" on wool aid'? Honourable members opposite have read it; they have been trooping into the Library today to see it. There has not been one Government supporter who has not gone to one of the Library staff and taken more than one copy of this letter to the editor. 
Thanks, Fred. 
The honourable member for Angas would not know what he is talking about. In a television debate the other night in Adelaide he referred to an Indonesian sitting outside the front of this House fasting. The honourable member did not know and did not concern himself to find out that the person to whom he was referring is an Australian citizen. He did not have the courtesy and decency to say so, if he did know it. What I wanted to say was that this letter to the editor is almost word for word with what appeared in the Hansard record of what was said on this side of the House. 
I turn now to the proposed payment by the Government of $600,000 to Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd. Let me wind up this note. You,  Mr Acting Speaker,  along with many Government supporters, have stood in this House and passed legislation from time to time. You have sent security police into trade union offices, thieving the trade union office books and looking at them. If honourable members want positive proof of what was said on this side of the House in regard to the number of sheep which Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd run and the cop which the company is going to get from the taxpayers I suggest that they obtain that company's books and present them to the House. They might then have some chance of convincing us that what we say is wrong. So far as my colleagues and I are concerned, until that is done honourable members opposite have passed a measure merely to benefit Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd, British Tobacco Co (Aust.) Ltd and all the barons across the length and breadth of this country who have been exploiting wool growers. We cannot place reliance on the suggestion of honourable members opposite that growers can benefit without going through the burghers and barons, unless they are prepared to stand up and be counted on the issue. Thank you for listening. 
I thank the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for his very kind remarks. The measure before the House is perhaps somewhat limited in relation to the problems on the waterfront and the position in which the industry now finds itself. I refer, of course, to the agreement which is due to expire soon. Negotiations are about to commence for its renewal. The Bill, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh stated, does no more than make provision for the waterside workers in Darwin who were previously members of the North Australian Workers Union to become members of the Waterside Workers Federation. That is the purpose of the Bill. I want to address my remarks to the overall position on the waterfront. It is necessary to trace some of the history of this industry which for many years has been regarded by honourable members opposite as a turbulent one purely because they do not want to understand the difficulties associated with that industry. Honourable members opposite have also been, to a large extent, most insincere in there approach to the problems of the waterfront industry and themaritime industry generally by insisting that the ills of the industry can best be cured by vicious legislative programmes of the type that we have seen in this House over a number of years. 
The first point I desire to make is that the absence of Government speakers in this debate indicates that they are rather shameful - extremely shameful as they ought to be - of the record of the Government in the field we are discussing at the moment. Some of the basic things that humans require are, of course, food, shelter and clothing. Although the Government has been in office for as long as it has, unfortunately, it has not learned from its experiences from year to year or from decade to decade and has abdicated its responsibility to the young people in the community. Rather, the Government has stood idly by, with an attitude of indifference - that is perhaps the best way to describe it - and allowed the speculators in the community to make vast profits on transactions which have involved a change of ownership of land. With each change of ownership there has been a tremendous profit but there has been no real improvement to that land in any way. 
In some areas in my electorate the price of land has gone up hundreds of per cent in the last 5 years and, to a very large extent, in the last 12 months. I refer to such areas as Dernancourt, Modbury and Highbury and others. The situation is absolutely staggering. The young people in the community today are often criticised but they have my deepest sympathy because they have an intolerable burden placed on them to provide themselves with a home of their own. I want to reiterate, in relation to my own electorate in South Australia, what was said in this debate by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I was disappointed in the speech made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  who, I understand, has some personal interest in housing. He has stood to gain as a result of certain business activities. He interjected quite loudly during the remarks of a previous  speaker  in relation to interest rates and said that they were rubbish. 
Let us have a look at the burden that confronts young people. First of all, there is a gap between the cost of providing a home and land and the finance that is available from recognised sources, without dealing with the fringe area of finance for second mortgages, which is high and crippling. For young people who want to provide themselves with a home but not rely on housing trusts and housing commissions the gap is really excessive. Added to that, they are forced into taking a second mortgage. The Government created the ground work for this situation when it refused the banking proposals set out by Labor in the late 1940s. Let us see what these young people have to pay. With a savings bank loan of $5,000, a second mortgage of $4,000 and an interest rate of  6i  per cent for the first 8 years, they will pay $77.16 in monthly repayments. They will pay a total interest on that of $4,890.25. Added to that is the second mortgage to which I refer. If it is taken out for $4,000 at 7i per cent interest the monthly repayment will be $56.04, and the total interest repayment over a period of approximately 15 years will be $1,379,82. 
The young people of today who require a loan of $13,000 are required to pay in total repayments of about $133.20 a month and they are required to pay about $6,270 in interest payments. I ask the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  what that represents on the total loan that they have taken out. He can work it out for himself. The honourable member for Bennelong, who has returned to the chamber, says that this is not so. Let him go into the Parliamentary Library and take the Librarian's staff to task for producing incorrect research figures. I am sure he will not do this, because he knows darned well that the figures are correct. What has this Government done over the years? I do not know how many times one has to mention this before the penny drops for honourable members opposite. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review made certain recommendations in this field which the Government has ignored because it is a capitalist oriented government. Honourable members opposite get up and talk about the average wage that is earned but they completely and conveniently overlook the fact that at least 70 per cent of the people in the community receive much less than the average wage. This is just not good enough. 
The Government does not recognise the burden it puts around the necks of young people who just want a roof over their heads and to own their own home. Many of them who enter into these contracts probably are not aware until some five or six years later what is really involved. Apart from the cost of the home there is the tremendous cost of establishing gardens and buying furnishings. I suppose that there are very many young people in the community who cannot achieve a home of their own unless the wife takes a job after the marriage. As the Minister knows, I have directed a number of pieces of correspondence to him about the homes savings grant. I had no success with his predecessor nor have I had any success with the present Minister. A committee of both Houses should be set up, representing  a  wide section of the community, including business and local government interests, to make a proper study of this matter so that the Government can tackle the problem of providing that basic thing required by all of us - shelter over our heads. 
The Federal and State governments have gone far too long on a year to year basis without any definite basic plan for this area. They have done nothing about the land speculator who assumes that areas 5 miles beyond developed areas or on the fringe of them will be required in a few short years hence for housing. The governments have done absolutely nothing - they are sure to be condemned forever for it - to cease this type of speculation, which imposes an increased burden on the young people, in areas in which development will occur in a reasonably short time. Honourable members have seen what has been occurring since the late 1940s, if not before. The Government has let it go on. The affluent millionaires in Western Australia and other places in this Commonwealth are doubling their profits on land on which there has not been a stick of timber or an ounce of cement used or any work done. It has been bare, open, previously rural land. It has just changed ownership, and in changing ownership again people have doubled their profit. 
The Government has done nothing about it. By doing nothing about it the Government has created a burden for the younger members of this community which they will have to carry for the greater part of their working lives. It is time that honourable members opposite, in the time that is left for these estimates, stood and were counted for the Government's absolute and utter neglect of the young people in the community in regard to this basic need of most, if not all, people. I will wind up on the note that it is not too late for some honourable members opposite to accept the amendment put forward by the Opposition and at least commence to do what I suggest ought to be done. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
First of all I would like to make some brief reference to honourable members on the Government side who have spoken this evening on this matter of immigration. It seemed to me that they continued to follow the course of quoting figures, as they have in debating so many of the other estimates. 1 refer particularly to those members on the Government benches who have been associated with the various forms of planning or lack of planning that have been evident as a result of the migration programme the Government has followed for a number of years. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  mentioned migrant education. Let me inform the honourable member that this area is in dire need of a crash programme and that the $16m which was allocated during the course of last year has not as yet shown any real benefit in the education of migrant children. I would like to draw the attentiton of the House to the fact that in the electorate I represent believe it or not - honourable members opposite will have to believe it because they have neglected to take out sufficient surveys - by visiting the classrooms personally and spending some hours in them I have found that the proportion of migrant children in 2 schools, namely Newton Primary School and St Morris Primary School is over 70 per cent. When I refer to migrants, I mean European migrants. The Government has no reason to crow in this chamber tonight over what its planning, if I may use that term, has resulted in. If one moves through an electorate such as mine one would find an example of chain migration from Italy that, I suppose, would not be found anywhere else in the Commonwealth. The members of one family alone run into excess of 500 people. In addition to that, in another sector of the electorate I represent there is a very large percentage of British migrants. It is just not good enough for the Government to say that it has done what it can. 
Let me cite the particular aspect of social welfare. This Government has treated the migrants to this country as second class citizens and as a result of lack of policy on the part of the Government a largs percentage of migrants that are brought to this country in fact live far below the poverty line. I give an illustration of this. Has not the Government legislated to provide a subsidised medical health scheme for migrants who come into this country as a sort of a stop-gap measure to make up for some of the conditions which they have left behind so far as that particular national aspect is concerned? In addition to that, under the Government's policy, an aged migrant may come to Australia at 60 years of age. He is an unskilled worker and secures employment with a local government or State government organisation and is forced to retire at 65. Employment being almost beyond him, the families that have nominated him are forced to share his poverty. Where is the Government's recognition of trade qualifications, particularly of those of people who come from the European theatre and enter this country? Of course, the policies of the Government have forced them to work far below their status. The Government has still not yet recognised the qualifications of those countries. 
There is another matter that Government members will have to think about. What will happen if Great Britain joins the European Economic Community. So neglectful are honourable members opposite of that area that I do not think they have given any thought to that question. Countries that provide a pension for people who go overseas include Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, Malta, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. The list goes on. Yet, in spite of all that being known, Government members opposite do nothing. Since migration was introduced into this country, 70 per cent of the migrants have settled in cities, most of them in capital cities. But a good percentage have settled in cities such as Wollongong, Geelong and Whyalla. What policy and planning has this Government for cities such as Whyalla to provide work for the female labour force and others who desire to work in those particular areas? It has done absolutely nothing. Let us deal with naturalisation of the migrants who come  to  this country. 
It is no use the honourable member interjecting while he is out of his seat. He does not know what he is talking about. The fact is that only 53 per cent of Greeks eligible for naturalisation have become naturalised. The next highest figure is for the Italian community,  of  which 62 per cent of the eligible people have so far become naturalised. Nearly 250,000 people who are eligible for naturalisation have not sought it. Why is this  so?  It is because the Government regards migrants as people who ought to be treated in a sub-standard manner with regard  to  social security and other conditions. Only this morning, one of Australia's leading newspapers dealing with the unemployment situation stated in its editorial: 
The cut in the migrant intake merely ensures that the unemployment figures look that much better at a time when they are liable to need all the cosmetic treatment they can get. 
The fact is that the Government will continue to treat these people as it has been treating them because it has no planned migration programme in any way, shape or form. 
Government members will recall that I have risen to my feet on a number of occasions in this chamber and pointed out what type of inquiry ought to be carried out by a responsible government in regard to education, migrant housing, the portability of pensions and pre-school education where a language difficulty arises with migrant children who, mark you, after they enter the junior grades at primary school, are at a disadvantage for the whole of their life. Have these matters been of any concern to the Government? Certainly they have not concerned the Government. It has not acted with respect to them. 
I say to Government supporters that they ought to vote for the amendment that has been put before the Committee by the Opposition. The expectations held by Government supporters as to what would happen to this debate as a result of what was said on this side of the chamber have not been realised. They must accept this fact and look at this matter broadly on the basis of the needs of humanity. They should approach this subject on the basis suggested by the amendment. 
It is suggested that I talk a lot of rubbish. I suggest to the honourable member that I regard migrants in my electorate as being human beings- 
Although there may be some ethnic groups which show some nationalism- 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member for Griffith is out of his seat. 
Well, chuck him out of the House for being out of order. The fact is that the second generation of migrants cannot be regarded in the manner in which the Government regards them. The Government ought to be mindful of this fact when it considers future development of Australia. If development continues to sprawl along in the way in which it does at the moment the Government will not achieve its prover aim. What is wrong with the concept of inquiry and planning with respect to population growth and the number of migrants that this country will be able to accept in future years. The honourable member for Griffith does not know what the figure is. I do not know. It is up to the experts to sit down and inquire into the matter, to call for evidence from the length and breadth of the country and  to  produce a report to the Parliament. I hope that, by that time, the present Government will be out of office and that a responsible party will be in office. Such a party would at least evaluate the situation and look at this matter on a proper basis. The dangerous situation that this Government faces is that if should there be a change from a capitalist oriented society to a labour oriented society it will be in immediate bother. 
I implore Government supporters this evening to consider the basis of the amendment that has been moved. Honourable members opposite should forget that they believed that they were going to make some false political gains as a result of what they thought would be said on this side of the 
Committee tonight. They should bear in mind that they have been shocked by the objective approach that has come from this side of the Committee. They should accept the amendment in that light. They should accept the fact that we have migration and that the planning of this country is not without its headaches by supporting this amendment. Let us get down to the business of looking after those human beings who have migrated to this country or who will migrate to this country in the next few years. The policy that we enunciate, first and foremost, is to look after those who are here and, secondly, to enable those who are here and who wish to bring their wives, relatives and friends to this country to do so. We cannot afford to permit to continue the return of a large percentage of migrants to the United Kingdom and to other countries. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Nobody on the Government side intends to rise, I take it. First of all I support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. In addition to that I want to draw the attention of the House to what I consider to be one or two anomalies insofar as income tax is concerned. The whole structure of taxation should, of course, be completely overhauled. There is a great need for this in our society today. There is a great need perhaps to examine Government expenditure on the basis of getting full value for the taxpayer's dollar. As I have said in this chamber before, I abhor the reference to taxpayers' money as Government money. After all, the Government is only the custodian of that money in the interests of the public generally and it is in this particular area that I want to be somewhat critical. In view of the tremendous expenditure that this Government has forced upon the taxpayers for the defence of Australia over the last decade, is it not corrtct that, in this day and age, the people of Australia should be informed as to who is threatening us? When one realises that this figure averages about SI, 200m a year and when one considers Australia's position in regard to military hardware, measured in terms of the defence potential which this finance could provide, I think most reasonable minded people who are not concerned with pressure politics would arrive at the conclusion that the general public has been had on the matter of defence expenditure. Many of our economic ills could well be placed at the door of such bungling. If Australia is a nation that is threatened, the public has every entitlement to know why such a tremendous amount of income tax is being levied. The public is not being adequately or properly informed as to what it is being defended from and, if we are being threatened, we do not know whether we are being given adequate and proper protection. 
Huge sums have been expended in the field of education and there is a desire for even greater expenditure but here again, the Government should look closely at the manner in which the taxpayers' money is being spent. Since State aid and other forms of aid raised their heads back in the early fifties, the poor schools have become poorer and the better equipped schools have continued to attract subsidies. Quite large sums of money are being expended on scholarships and, again, there ought to be some form of reassessment in this field. Scholarships should be awarded on the basis of need. Many scholarships are given to student children whose parents really do not require financial assistance. If the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is interested, I could show him correspondence I have received from parents who felt that their children should not have received scholarships but that, in fact, the scholarships should have been awarded to the less privileged people in our society. 
I turn now to the question of tax dodgers - the lurkmen and the white collar crime area. The field that is open to these people to avoid taxation bears no comparison to that open to the normal wage and salary earner who must reveal everything and who has very little opportunity of covering up any evasion of tax. The Federal Government has been quite lax in pursuing any sort of investigation into tax dodgers. We have not had proper reports to the House on matters which have been raised in reference to the tax dodges which are available by registering companies on Norfolk Island, about 1,000 miles off the eastern coast of the continent. Although the Minister has been asked questions from time to time in this House about this matter and has said that the Government is certainly most concerned about it, no report has been presented to the House as to whether there has been any real work done in this area. 
In regard to taxation as it affects wage and salary earners, there is a real need for the Government to have a look at and make comparisons with what is available to an employer group as against a group of employees or individual employees. In the case of industrial clothing supplied by an employer, my understanding is that some taxation rebates are available in this field not only with regard to the supply of industrial clothing but also with regard to its replacement, maintenance, dry cleaning and laundering. However, groups of employees are required to dress in a manner which bestows a vast business benefit to the employer. I refer to those who are engaged as shop assistants in large city and suburban departmental stores. In the main, the stores do not provide a uniform but insist upon a uniform or a type of dress being worn that imposes considerable costs upon employees and, in many cases, no taxation allowance is granted for that clothing. Not only do they incur considerable initial cost for this clothing but also they have everincreasing costs for maintenance, dry cleaning and laundering. Again, I think the Government has been quite discriminatory in regard to this matter and should give it every consideration. 
The matter of taxation allowances for the cost of travelling to and from work has been raised from time to time by constituents of honourable members. I do not know whether, in the short term, the Government should not examine this matter, having in mind that the executive or the board member can put it over in 101 ways and get away with it. He can claim depreciation on a vehicle that he does not own. The executive has a car supplied; he probably has all his maintenance done for him; the running and other costs that he incurs in driving this vehicle probably do nol come from his own pocket, and he finds at the end of the year - perhaps this is offered as an inducement by an employer in some fields - that he is able to write his expenses off as a tax deduction. But the poor old battler is not able to use public transport as it is so restricted in some parts of Australia particularly for shift workers. He simply must provide himself with a vehicle to get himself to and from his place of employment and he gets no taxation consideration whatever except in limited fields. I said when I introduced this subject that the Government should be prepared to examine in the short term the possibility of providing taxation deductions for travelling expenses. However, I bear in mind and I recognise that there could be some anomalies here with respect to how far a person must travel in comparison with his fellows as well as with respect to a number of other matters and perhaps this would be better tackled on an overall wage structure basis rather than just by providing reductions. 
In addition, there is the question of the whole structure of Government expenditure and the manner in which expenditure is carried out. There is wasteful expenditure; 1 have already discussed defence. I am not suggesting for a moment that we should turn our backs on the crisis in the rural industry but at the same time I am not suggesting that the Government is without blame for the present crisis in that industry. Subsidies have reached a staggering figure and probably amount to several thousand dollars for each primary producer. We ought to have a much closer look at this field. We cannot continue to spend taxpayers' money on the wool industry. While this expenditure must be regarded as essential in the short term, sooner or later, as responsible elected members of this Parliament, we must sit down in a proper manner and assess whether there is any need for the wool industry, measured in the long term, having regard to the availability of synthetics. If we realise this - there is sufficient evidence in the form of comparison that one just cannot compete on a cost basis with the other - I do not think that the Government should continue spoon feeding people for electoral popularity in order to ensure its return to this place from time to time. We are inflicting a tremendous burden on the taxpayers in the non-primary field of this country. This should be looked at, for it is vital to taxation. The measure before us is based upon an ever-increasing taxation scale which will take more and more of the wage and salary earners' wage packets. This is bad enough, but perhaps the wage and salary earners throughout the Commonwealth would be prepared to accept it if they were getting real value for their money. 
When we on this side of the House are looking for some form of reform, some form of readjustment to put real value in the $1 and perhaps some form of additional expenditure in some field or other, we hear the old cry from our political opponents: Where is the money coming from?' The percentage of income paid in taxation today, while perhaps not as high as in some other countries, is higher than in many others and we should be asking the question: 'Where has the money gone?' We have to end this concept of bashing out the Budget of the country in a concrete vault. The Government has to realise that in this day and age it has to take the community into its confidence during these winter recesses. There should be some form of appraisal whereby the man in the street is able to deduce - at least have sufficient information given to him to allow him to think for himself - whether he should make an assessment as to where his money is going. There should bc some form of public exposure of some of the departments. What is wrong with this concept? The Government should stop continually feeding me with the answer that it cannot do it because unscrupulous members of the community will take unfair advantage of it. I say quite bluntly that if the information were freely and readily available to all in the community, honourable members opposite would agree that individuals would find it extremely difficult to take any unfair advantage. 
 I am glad that the former Minister for Labour and National Service is in the chamber tonight because I propose to refer to some correspondence that he addressed to me in regard to the rights of people to obtain a deferment of their military service on compassionate grounds. If time permitted  I  could quote from a letter from the present Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to confirm that there is no such provision for a deferment. I refer to an incident involving a serviceman who was killed on active service in Vietnam after being sent there by this Government when he should not have gone there because he was literally blind. As a result of some further correspondence in regard to other matters concerning this most unfortunate and sad occasion, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  sent to the parents of this person a letter which they received within the last  2  days. 
Only today I received a telephone call, in the course of which I was informed that the Prime Minister, who is not with us at the moment, had had the temerity to inform the father of this boy that his son would not have been sent to Vietnam if he had applied to his commanding officer to remain in Australia, and that he could have remained in Australia on compassionate grounds. This statement by the Prime Minister was absolutely misleading. . He should be cognisant of the fact that Ministers of his Cabinet are giving certain information to honourable members of this house which he, in writing to a servicemen's father, repudiates. He told the father that the serviceman could have remained in Australia. The matter in respect of which the parents of this soldier wrote to the Prime Minister represents a shocking indictment of a member of the Government who. with you  Mr Deputy Chairman,  from time to time in this place has said that the Government is prepared to do all that it possibly can do for those who have gone to Vietnam and for those who have returned. 
As a result of a previous debate in this chamber when I mentioned this matter, the Minister for Labour and National Service directed a letter to me in which he requested specific instances where there may have been grounds for justifiable complaint. Let me wrap this one around his ears. He knows that soldiers who have been killed in Vietnam have taken out policies with insurance companies in Australia. He, the Prime Minister and the previous Prime Minister have had correspondence directed to them on this subject. They have written letters of sympathy in a hypocritical fashion to constituents of mine who have lost sons overseas bat they have done nothing about compelling the companies to pay out on those insurance policies. If these lads had returned to Australia and died of wounds the insurance companies would have had to pay out. If the lads had been killed in a road accident or in an industrial accident the insurance companies would have had to pay out. Seme of the boys who went to Vietnam and who have returned to Australia in military caskets took out insurance policies to cover hire purchase commitments on motor vehicles so that if anything happened to them their parents would not have the burden of making repayments on the hire purchase agreements. Because these men were killed in Vietnam the . insurance policies have not been honoured. The Government has not honoured its promises in this regard to the men it sent to Vietnam. 
I do not intend to say any more at this stage about the particular case I have mentioned because I intend to raise it in this chamber when the little fellow comes back from overseas and I will wrap it around his neck then. If,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you want to pull me up for using unparliamentary language, well and good. The present Prime Minister wrote a letter to the bereaved parents. He has no feelings whatsoever about this matter and when the first opportunity presents itself on a future occasion not only will I raise this aspect but also I will reveal other aspects of the case. I hope that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  will be present on that occasion because he admitted that in this case the soldier was unfit and should never have gone to Vietnam. That soldier did not make it back to Australia. However, so much for that. I should like those Ministers and those Government supporters who are in the chamber to do something  on  behalf of the widow of this soldier. They should not complain if this matter is raised on another occasion. I serve notice on them that my information is factual. They should do something about it. 
Where in these estimates, can one put his finger on the tremendous cost to the Australian taxpayer of the Departments involvement in the calling up of people, having them medically examined and conscripting them into the Services? I cannot find such information in the documents relating to the Department- Do not tell me that the Department has not incurred costs as a result of the ballots and everything else that it has undertaken over a number of years. Should not this information be itemised? Should it not be set out and presented  h  such a manner that members of the Opposition and some of those lesser members en the other side, if they wanted to know, would be adequately and properly informed is to the costs? 
During this debate many aspects of the work of the Department of Labour and National Service have been mentioned. In view of the role that the Department has played for almost 20 years I . can only regard its expenditure as wasteful. The main aim of the Department, of course, should be to provide a service in the industrial field and it should have for its purpose industrial peace, but it has not been able to achieve this objective. The Department has spent millions over the years. Whilst it has been able to create industrial confusion, disunity and industrial disputation it has been playing its proper role so far as the Government is concerned, because the Government is concerned only with creating false issues on which to get returned to office. At this point of time the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is making repeated statements to the Press that there could be an election next year, fought on industrial issues. If there is an early election it will be because the Government intends to engineer some industrial disturbances. Recently the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is sitting at the table, was in my electorate boasting about what will happen in the industrial field. At one public meeting he said that he was returning to Canberra the following week and that he intended to ride the unions and to put the spurs in. He was to attend a conference at Melbourne the following day and he intended to tell the unions, in no uncertain terms, where they stood. He said that he would be recommending to Cabinet, during the course of that week in which Parliament was not in session, what it should do about the industrial sector. 
The Government is not reading the signs. Many big employer organisations which employ quite a large percentage of the work force are not happy with the old cry of the Government about the need to impose sanctions on the workers - the attitude of: We must collect the fines and at all costs ensure a maximum of industrial discipline.' Those days are gone so far as a number of employer organisations is concerned. It is time that the Government recognised this. Its claptrap about the 35- hour week is almost sickening. Has the Minister ever taken time to look at the percentage of the overall work force in Australia, particularly the percentage of employees in the Public Service sector, in the industrial field and what have you, which works a 35-hour week or less? The Minister should think about that. He should get his Department to give him the figures. 1 am quite certain that they are available to him. He should work out the percentage working less than a 35-hour week and, while he is about that, he should ask how long they have been working a 35-hour week. He might come to his senses. In addition he needs to pay closer attention to what the Labor Party says about a 35-hour week. The Labor Party does not say that the 35-hour week should be introduced right across the board. What it says and what the Minister should realise and get through his head is that the Labor Party is demanding a 35-hour week in those industries that are in a redundant situation. Because of mechanisation - automation almost - a 35-hour week is absolutely necessary. The way the Government runs tb.is place, it does not work a 35-hour week. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Supply. The Minister may recall that the first question directed to him in this House on his assumption of the portfolio of Supply some time ago was asked by me about security at Woomera. I now ask: In seeking evidence for a recent court case in Adelaide concering the disappearance of film from Woomera did the Commonwealth Police recover film other than the lead-in piece which was handled to the magistrate; that is, did the Commonwealth Police recover film with images of rocket firing at Woomera? Why was the film with images not tendered to the magistrate in the court case? Was it because the Government was fearful that the confidence of the United States of America and of other countries using Woomera would be undermined insofar as security arrangements in this country are concerned? Was the security scandal at Woomera in fact a political trick on the part of the Government that misfired? 
During the course of the afternoon I directed a question to the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  I want to state the following in regard to that matter: Some time ago a man went to see the 'Advertiser' with a request for payment in return for a story about film in his possession of a secret rocket firing at Womera. The 'Advertiser' representatives assigned to interview the man were incredulous, so they asked to see the film. The man produced, for inspection, approximately  40  feet of film with images of a rocket firing on the film and claimed that he had  1 ,200  feet of film showing a complete rocket firing sequence, which he said was in Melbourne. 
The 'Advertiser' ran the film which he had given them through a projector and froze several frames from which they made photographs and then, in order to verify that the film was in fact of a Woomera rocket firing, approached  Dr Woods,  the head of the Weapons Research Establishment, with the photographs.  Dr Woods  denied that the photographs necessarily had anything to do with Woomera but he advised the 'Advertiser' representatives that although they had legally brought the photographs on to WRE property it would be illegal for them to remove the photographs from WRE property, in effect,  Dr Woods  compulsorily confiscated the photographs. 
As far as the 'Advertiser' representatives were concerned, this action on the part of  Dr Woods  confirmed that the film in their possession was in fact from Woomera and they rang the Minister for Supply, who admitted that film of a rocket firing was missing from Woomera. The man who had given the film to the 'Advertiser' was interviewed again, but most of what he said was considered by the Advertiser' to be untrue because, they believed, he was trying to protect his contacts. The 'Advertiser' representatives assigned to the case were advised, after the photographs which they had shown to  Dr Woods  had been seized, that if they continued with the story they were likely to have search warrants issued against executives of the 'Advertiser' and searches instituted for the recovery of the film in their possession, with possible maximum penalties of up to  7  years imprisonment. Accordingly, the strip of film which had been given to them was voluntarily surrendered to  Dr Woods  after photographs had been made of some frames for later reproduction. 
When the 'Advertiser' yielded the film to  Dr Woods  the editor of that newspaper,  Mr Des  Colquhoun, informed him that the story would be used.  Dr Woods  was infuriated and showed his anger. As a result,  Mr Colquhoun  agreed to ring the Minister a second time. At the time the Minister was in flight between Perth and Canberra but a message was left at Melbourne where the Minister was to touch down. When  Dr Woods  was informed that the 'Advertiser' would ring the Minister he asked for a message to be conveyed from him to the Minister. The message went something like this: 'The matter you want to know about will take place tonight'. 
Colquhoun made contact with the Minister in Melbourne and told him that the story would be used. The Minister was asked the meaning of the cryptic message which had been relayed to him and he advised Colquhoun that it meant that the Commonwealth Police expected to arrest a man that night in connection with the film missing from Woomera. In the meantime the 'Advertiser' had decided to run its exclusive story the next day. It has been reliably reported to me that the sum of  $100  was paid to the man who had given the story and film to the Advertiser'. 
That night the Commonwealth Police arrested a man, later named as Trevor Wayne Kotz of Parkside, and charged him with receiving film belonging to the Weapons Research Establishment, knowing it to have been stolen. Prior to his arrest, Kotz had voluntarily made contact with the Commonwealth Police, offering them information as to who had the  1,200  feet of film in return for the sum of  $600,  not  $300  as reported in the 'Review'. Initially the Commonwealth Police were given authority to pay him the money as requested; this is not unusual in matters of this nature. However, before any money was paid the Commonwealth Government had a change of heart and the AttorneyGeneral's Department decided to authorise the arrest and prosecution of Kotz. This was rather odd in view of the fact that during several days before his arrest Kotz had rendezvoused with the police voluntarily on a number of occasions. 
On the night Kotz was arrested Commonwealth police went to his Parkside home with a search warrant and conducted a full scale search. In the search they recovered a couple of pieces of film which contained images of a rocket firing similar to that on the film which a man had earlier shown the 'Advertiser'. Prior to his arrest Kotz had voluntarily given to the Commonwealth Police - in order to whet their collective appetities - a piece of film which was naked except for a series of code numbers and code names. This was the lead runner of the film of a secret rocket firing. 
When the case against Kotz entered court the prosecution produced to  Mr D.  F. Wilson, CSM, the magistrate hearing the charge, only the film containing the code numbers and code names. The prosecution did not produce any evidence of the 2 pieces of film with images of a rocket firing which had been recovered from the home of the defendant during the search, although there can be no doubt that had this film been produced a conviction would have been obtained. It is believed that this film was held by the Commonwealth prosecution in court but was not produced in evidence. 
During the investigations the Commonwealth Police were under instructions from the Government to worry only about recovering the 1,200 feet of film and not to worry about securing a successful prosecution. The Commonwealth Government did not want a conviction in this case because it feared the publicity which would accompany a prosecution and subsequent conviction. The Government feared that such a conviction could lead to the Americans and others using Woomera, becoming aware about the total inadequacy of Australia's security precautions. Unfortunately, for the Government the defendant, Kotz, pleaded guilty and it was then necessary for the prosecution to run dead in this case in order to secure his acquittal with the minimum of fuss. During their investigations Commonwealth Police inquiries revealed a major loop hole in security at Woomera. In any rocket firing at Woomera six prints of a film are made for distribution to designated groups, such as the National Aeronautics Space Administration of the United States and the manufacturers of the rocket, etc. The Commonwealth Police traced all prints but one of this particular rocket firing and the missing one was found to be the one allocated to Woomera. 
Police inquiries revealed that up until the Kotz case no record was ever kept of who took out film of a particular secret rocket firing for inspection and there was no enforced return of film which had been taken out. Needless to say, I understand that such records are now kept. During their inquiries in the Kotz case the Commonwealth Police repeatedly found themselves beating their heads against a series of brick walls created by security at Woomera, the Weapons Research Establishment and the Department of Supply, all of whom were seeking only to cover up a major scandal for fear of upsetting the United States Government. I understand that this is not an isolated case of the Commonwealth Police being deliberately frustrated in their efforts to prosecute breaches of security. 
As a result of the Kotz case the Commonwealth Police Commissioner sent a top level inspector from Canberra to investigate and report on security at Woomera. The inspector has submitted his report which was intensely critical, but the Commissioner has returned it to him with an instruction that he make it hotter still. It is clear that the Commonwealth Government at ministerial or high sub-ministerial level has caused a crisis of confidence amongst the Commonwealth Police Force. It is clear that the Commonwealth Police are being deliberately denied the opportunity of performing their task with efficiency by a Government which is concerned only to cover up our inadequate security arrangements for fear of upsetting the Americans. 
The answer given by the Minister for Supply to my question regarding the prosecution of a man in connection with the disappearance of secret rocket firings film from Woomera clearly indicates that the Government in general and the Minister in particular are concerned only with covering up serious breaches in Australia's security arrangements. In his reply to my question, the Minister on the one hand admitted in part that in fact film with images of a secret rocket firing film at Woomera was recovered by the Commonwealth Police from the home of a man charged in Adelaide Magistrates Court. On the other hand the Minister claimed that the only film available to and held by the prosecution in this matter was the naked film which contained only code names and numbers and which was actually presented in court. 
It is clear, therefore, from the Ministers answer that my claim that the Government did not want a successful prosecution in this matter is true. It is obvious that this Government is pursuing a double standard with regard to Australia's security in general and at Woomera in particular. I now call upon the Government to do two things in respect of this particular matter. Firstly, I ask it to table in the House of Representatives the report of a senior Commonwealth Police Inspector to his Commissioner regarding security at Woomera. Secondly, I challenge the Government to establish a select parliamentary committee into the arrangements which are made at the present time to guarantee Australia's security. 
I want to say in conclusion that the information I have is from a source which is absolutely impeccable and absolutely true. The Minister is sitting there hand on cheek tonight not knowing what to do because he is under instruction to cover up this particular allegation from go to whoa. I suggest to the Minister that he should give some very serious thought to what has been said in this chamber in regard to this matter, what has been said to newspaper reporters, and in particular what has been said by other Ministers in this House when questions are asked on installations in Australia. They say that we on this side of the House are traitors. Who are the real traitors so far as the security of Australia is conconcerned when the security forces of this country are sabotaged by high level departmental officers and ex-Ministers? I believe that to be honestly true. The only way I will be convinced that it is not true is by the tabling in this House of the documents to which I have referred and by the tabling in this House of the report of the person responsible to the Commissioner in carrying out such an investigation. I look forward, of course, to the clearing of the air in regard to this matter during the course of the remainder of the sittings of this House this week. 
First of all let me explode the false argument put up by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  who has just resumed his seat, about the numerical state of seats in 
Western Australia. The honourable members attention ought to be drawn to the fact that he needs to learn to read if he cannot write and cannot understand. I shall refer to the 2 truly rural electorates of Forrest and Kalgoorlie. The number of persons enrolled in the electorate of Forrest is static, and the numbers in the electorate of Kalgoorlie are increasing only in the mining area which indicates perhaps that the people from the rest of the electorate are flowing into that area. The number of electors in the seats of Canning and Moore are increasing because people have had to leave the countryside as the result of this Government's policies. 
The honourable member for Canning, who has just resumed his seat, is as good as any to refer to. The honourable member refers to every Minister at the State level and every honourable member on this side of the House as being a calamity howler. That is what the honourable member said here today. Instead of saying that we want confidence in the countryside he should have said that this Government, as I said to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and I am not so sure that I did not send a telegram to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  because of the Prime Minister's inability to reply, has a responsibility in regard to the unemployment situation today. It is not good enough in 1971 to adopt a 1933 attitude. It appears to me that the mental attitude of Government supporters today is that because as they drive along the highways and do not see a man with a swag on his back, corks around his hat and a billy-can swinging from his swag, the economy is good. They have not moved along in this regard since 1930. Let them look at the figures relating to repossessions by Custom Credit Corporation Ltd and these other burglars within the business community as a result of people being thrown out of employment and being unable to keep up their payments. 
I would like to refer to a letter I received in answer to a telegram I sent to the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Because I mentioned a figure of 120,000 unemployed by the New Year which could involve between 300,000 and 400,000 men, women and children, he put up the false argument that this figure is excessive because most of the unemployed people would be school leavers. Let me say to the Acting Prime Minister that the figure quoted is in fact not excessive. When we have the situation of a family man being thrown out of employment that is bad enough. I am talking about people in the community who are actually affected. If you have 2 children of school leaving age who are not going to work the whole family is affected. Get that through your thick heads. They must be affected because these children are economic factors within the family unit. Is it not right that the Government is sitting on $630m or $650m? Why does it not allow that money to work for the community instead of sitting over there on the Government benches in a stupid fashion and saying- 
Prior to the Committee stage of the Bill my name was on the list of speakers but I was dealt with by the then occupant of the Chair in relation to the procedures of this House. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who does not live in his electorate, cast some slurs on my activities in my electorate. Let me say first of all that I support the amendment that has been moved for the postponement of clause 3 in both of the measures. Let me say in rebuttal of what has been said by the honourable member for Angas that there is not a redundancy problem insofar as the sulphuric acid plant is concerned which is affecting the social welfare of some members of families both at Nairne in the honourable member's electorate or in the Largs North area. 
Let me say also that it is not good enough for the honourable member for Angas to boast about what the Federal Government did way back in the early 1950s when it set up this industry. This industry was set up, and most certainly it was more than encouraged, by the then Federal Government because of circumstances which broadly speaking were outlined by the honourable member for Angas. So far so good. But we have come a long way since the early 1950s and now we find that the natural resources of South Australia can be considered to be redundant along with a whole host of human beings. But it is just not true to say that comparable work is available in the locality of Nairne should this legislation be passed, and there is no further extension of assistance to the industry. Some time ago I spoke to the members of the management of Nairne Pyrites Pty Ltd and they informed me that they were happy with the extension which was given at the time. Are they not going to be a damn sight happier with a further extension? That is the important point, is it not? 
The honourable member for Angas has sold his constituents down the drain; he has sold his State down the drain. The honourable member made no reference whatsoever to the role that the people of South Australia had to play in setting up this industry in 2 different areas in the State. Let me remind the honourable member, if I may, of what did happen. The Commonwealth Government announced on 21st May that it had accepted a recommendation of the Tariff Board to discontinue the bounty payment on the production of sulphur from indigenous sources as from May 1972. The South Australian Government has been involved in the development and support of the 2 local industries affected by the decision - Nairne Pyrites Ltd and Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd and submitted a case to the Tariff Board in support of a continuation of the bounty. The decision means a complete closure of both industries. 
Due to a world shortage of elemental sulphur, brimstone, in 1951 the Commonwealth Government began actively to encourage sulphuric acid producers to convert their plants to use indigenous sulphur bearing materials. The Commonwealth Government assured the acid producers that if they used local raw materials they would be protected against imports of lowpriced brimstone - a situation we are in today, is it not - thus ensuring the economic production of acid in Australia. The project was encouraged in order to ensure a supply of indigenous sulphur at a reasonable price for use in the production of superphosphate, thus minimising the effect on the agricultural industry of fluctuations in the world price of sulphur. At the instigation of the Commonwealth Government a completely integrated project to produce sulphuric acid was established in South Australia using pyritic ore mined locally as the source of sulphur. This consisted of quarrying and milling operations near Nairne and a sulphuric acid manufacturing plant in the Largs North area. 
The development of the mining operation at Nairne was heavily backed by the South Australian Government, which guaranteed a loan of $2m made to Nairne Pyrites Pty Ltd by the Savings Bank of South Australia. This sum has been repaid. In addition, the State Government undertook to provide, at a cost to the people of the State, the firm with essential services including housing for employees, rail facilities, roads, power and water. This involved the expenditure of $lm of the taxpayers' money. The housing arrangement included a guarantee of rental payments until 1983 - and I remind the honourable member for Angas of this - on some 67 homes. This all took place within his electorate yet he did not mention it. 
A shut-down at Nairne Pyrites will involve the loss to State government departments and instrumentalities of a revenue of approximately $230,000 per year  from rail freights, the  supply of water and electricity, etc. The establishment of the sulphuric acid plant was supported by a Commonwealth guaranteed loan of $4.6m. The project was set up with a designed capacity of 100,000 tons of sulphuric acid per year and has been in production since 1955. Production up to 30th June 1971 has been 1.5 million tons of acid from 485,400 tons of sulphur provided from Nairne. The total sale value of this sulphur concentrate has been in the vicinity of $14.45m. But during the 16 years of the mine's operation to the end of June 1971 payment of the pyrites' bounty has only been made in 7 of those years. This has involved a payment of $2m to Nairne Pyrites. Over the whole of this period a bounty of approximately $480,000 per annum has been paid to Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd to compensate for using local pyrites in lieu of imported brimstone. 
I remind the honourable member for Angas, who still at least has courage enough to sit in the House, that local effects of a shut-down will include a loss of employment for 65 people at Nairne Pyrites. The honourable member talked about alternate employment on a pipe project in that area but I believe his thinking is astray because this would be a very short term project. These effects also would include some adjustments to the housing settlement at Brukunga which was established for the mine. Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd at present employs 104 people. The honourable member did npt mention this. The firm faces a complete cessation of operations involving the lay off of ail employees and the scrapping of the whole plant. Yet, we heard in this chamber this morning a Minister state the policy of this Government in The field of employment. Honourable members on the other side must all be regarded as hypocrites. They are more hypocritical in the light of the fact that they have intended to deny members on this side of the Mouse an idea of what the Government's real role ought to be in conformity with a proper concept of employment within the community. 
What is to happen to wives and families of men who are thrown out of workin these 2 industrial areas? The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who is at the table, need not wince, because it is true. I personally know of people who have been given the axe at Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd at Birkenhead. If the Minister has never had the sack, he has no idea of what this means. If the Minister cops it one day he may realise what his Government is inflicting on other people because of its shortsightedness. I say to the Minister in all sincerity that one of the results of unemployment is that children are uneducated. The Government does not provide anything for children who are over 16 years of age when a man has been sacked. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  -Order! 
I shall come back to the Bill. I was just reminding the Minister of some home truths. 
The plant and equipment at Nairne Pyrites Pty Ltd and Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd is in good condition but would have little value if scrapped. The Commonwealth Government proposes to discharge the obligation to sustain the industry which arises from its initial encouragement by paying compensation as at the date of discontinuation of the bounty. Compensation will be based on the written down valueof the assets in relation to realisation. If this is not damn shabby treatment I would like someone, even someone from the public gallery for that matter, to stand up and inform me what is. No-one from the other side of the House has told us what is required to sustain this industry in the light of the Government's so-called policy. The Government will not use the proceeds from the sale of these natural resources or spend a dollar towards doing this. However the Government allows other natural resources to be shipped out of this country at substantial loss to the Australian people. Honourable members opposite can wear that and I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for allowing me to speak. 
I support the amendment. I would consider that I would be failing in my duty as a South Australian representative in this Parliament if I once again did not take the opportunity, which was earlier denied me, to condemn the Government for its shortsightedness and its almost inhuman act in introducing this Bill, the provisions of which are tantamount to saying to the companies which will be effected: 'You have served our purpose. We have used you. We do not want you any more. Get to hell out of the place and good riddance to you'. This situation is not good enough in 1971. It is not as though Australia is enjoying a situation of buoyancy and viability in the rural industry. I remind the House that the companies affected by this legislation do not provide products solely for the rural industry. If they were involved in supplying only the rural industry this measure probably would not be before the Parliament now. 
I am opposed to any measure which will result in Australian taxpayers' money going to overseas monopolies. Even though freight rates are as low as they are at present. Australian money will be paid to overseas companies On at least 3 occasions this afternoon the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has referred to this fact, but this aspect has not been adequately or properly explained by the Minister who is sitting at the table, the Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock).  I do not know how members of the Opposition can ever expect there to be any proper and relevant debate in this chamber. We have not been given any good reasons why these industries in South Australia and in Tasmania should not be dealt with in the manner in which the Tariff Board originally recommended. For how much longer do members of the Opposition have to say that the Government is an immovable clot? It seems to be like some of the diseases with which some unfortunate people become afflicted. 
The town of Brukunga, which lies almost half-way between Murray Bridge and Adelaide, could be regarded as a town which has a decentralised industrial undertaking. The provisions of this Bill will impose a tremendous burden on the people of that town who will have to move from what can be regarded as housing commission type homes to other areas to seek employment. By his very actions in supporting this Bill, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is supporting the closure of a project which is, as has been mentioned, more than viable. The honourable member for Angas says that the people who are thrown idle can go up the road and work in a copper mine that has been closed for almost 100 years. 
No. It has been closed down. Mining in the area of Kanmantoo closed down when your father was a boy. You study the facts. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member for Sturt will direct his remarks to the Chair. 
I will,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but as long as time is available and I am within the Standing Orders I will hammer the Government. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  interjected, but I did not hear him. The activities of the Navy are causing much ecological argument so I suggest that the Minister concentrate on that situation and not interrupt during this debate. I repeat that the Government is acting hypocritically in introducing this type of legislation today, particularly as during recent debates so many Government supporters have referred to the unemployment situation. Last evening I received a letter from the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  - he is in the chamber now, chatting to the honourable member for Angas and, I suppose, consoling him in some way or another - in which he referred to the unemployment situation. Members opposite realise, by the manner in which this Bill has been brought before us, that it will cause unemployment. It will affect some 107 people in the Birkenhead sulphuric acid plant. They will go to the wall. With the expectation of unemployment increasing right across Australia, what will be the lot of these people? 
What would it cost the Government in terms of money if it agreed to the Opposition's amendment? It would cost a hell of a lot less than what the Government has been saved since the 1950s - in fact, even since the mid-1960s. If lack of finance threatened to delay some project the Government would not quibble about spending 5 times as much as it would cost to continue subsidising the industries with which we are now concerned. The Government has no objection to allowing Australia's mineral wealth to be disposed of overseas on the payment of royalties. This is of no benefit to the Australian community. Yet the Government will quibble about a small loan to enable these industries to remain intact and viable. The Government should pay some regard to what I consider is an honest concept of negotiation. Much has been said in this chamber about an honest concept of negotiation in respect of some industrial organisations. In the last few weeks industrial organisations have been accused of tearing up agreements and not honouring them, but what the devil does this Bill do? It dishonours an agreement - an undertaking - and in so doing lays to the wayside and pushes to the kerbside some South Australian workers. I repeat my opposition to any measure which does that. 
I strongly oppose the . Bill but I strongly recommend the amendment because it will not allow people to be pushed into the kerbs and it does not disregard humanity, which is what the Bill does. As long as I am a member of this Parliament I will rise on every possible opportunity that presents itself to me and condemn this Government for its damned shortsightedness and almost utter stupidity and absolute disregard for industries in 2 of the smaller States of the Commonwealth. The Government does not condemn the Clutha deal in New South Wales. The Government will not condemn what will be done or what will not be done with respect to the Clutha deal, nor will it pay any regard to what should be done, and what the Opposition considers to be a proper concept, in respect of the industries affected by this legislation. Again I reiterate my strongest opposition to this Bill. I speak for the people for whom the Government has no regard and who will be pushed into the kerbside. 
We have heard it all again. I have been in this House perhaps only 2 or 3 times when this matter has been discussed during the debate on the Estimates. We have gone through again the old, old story of the Country Party, what the South Australian Government did in relation to Chowilla and what it did not do, aided and abetted by a Liberal Party back bencher who shall remain anonymous but who was a member of the Complete Chowilla Committee. Of course, one can stand here and throw back to the Country Party that its supporters went to regional conferences in New South Wales and supported Chowilla all the way with an 'over our dead bodies - it has to be built* sort of attitude. But I suppose it will not do a great deal of good to go over that again. Fancy trying to make a comparison between Don Dunstan and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull):  It is just not possible. 
Dealing with the question of water conservation and the River Murray as it has been dealt with tonight by the honourable member who has just had a lot to say but who scarpered from the chamber when I rose, the recently elected member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  one has to deal with the assertion made by him that politics are being played. This somewhat irks me. I say to this chamber tonight that this country has suffered, particularly near your electorate,  Mr Chairman,  from short term narrow minded political pressure politics so far as water conservation is concerned. The policy of the Country Party in this chamber down through the years has been to work on an electoral basis. Water conservation in New South Wales has been based on the retention of Country Party seats and the satisfaction of the dairying industry on the north coast of New South Wales. Millions upon millions of dollars have been squandered at the behest of the Country Party on flood mitigation schemes which in the long term is absolutely shocking waste - wasteful expenditure. 
Water is the most precious commodity in Australia. One realises that it does not appear on the stock exchange listings and so forth, but the fact is that to alleviate the annual or sometimes bi-annual floods in some of the main rivers that flow eastward to the Pacific, flood mitigation schemes have been put into effect just for the purpose of pushing water as rapidly as possible into the Pacific Ocean. To my way of thinking that is extremely wasteful. The Government and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  sought the swift passage of a Bill to sound the death knell of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme, one of the most shocking decisions ever taken in this House. The Snowy Mountains Authority could have been let loose, as it were, in the ranges in the middle of the Great Dividing Range to carry out feasibility studies. To those honourable members who have huge grins on their faces and who have never got any further than the concrete cloisters of universities and so forth I want to say that a feasibility study ought to have been carried out on the area surrounding the Moonbi and Dorrigo Ranges in New South Wales. 
I have received replies to letters I have sent to engineers and university professors, for that matter, who have said that a study is more than worth while having in mind that the catchment area in those ranges to which I referred is far greater than that of the Southern Alps and the Snowy Mountains and the rainfall combined with snowfall is much greater than that in the Southern Alps. Having in mind the professional opinions I have received it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that certain of the rivers that flow eastward and some of the tributaries of the main rivers that flow eastward could be turned by tunnelling and so forth and in doing so we could achieve a flow of water all the year round of some 20 to 22 feet in the River Darling. There would be no question of salinity in the River Murray so far as South Australia is concerned if this could be achieved. 
I understand that one of the greatest problems associated with this would be the tremendous amount of earth works that would be required along the River Darling because the rate of fall for many, many miles along the Darling is extremely low. It trundles for miles with only a very slight fall and a great deal of earth works would perhaps be required to ensure success. But these are the sort of things that we ought to be looking at on the basis of a national need. We should not be quarrelling about whether somebody put a foot wrong politically so far as Dartmouth or the Ord River scheme was concerned. We had a Government supporter rise in the chamber this morning, did we not, and deal with the white elephant of the Ord River scheme. 
All right, there are still certain studies being done on it. The honourable member has done a great deal of work on it. I am not kicking the Ord scheme, but I arn saying that so far as the Dartmouth scheme is concerned I hold the personal opinion that neither one ought to go .ahead until such time as adequate and proper studies have been made, taking into consideration the feasibility of the project and the time taken to complete the system. This would be more valuable than a dozen Dartmouths or one Chowilla, for that matter. One great advantage is that these are downstream from the irrigation settlements of Victoria and another great benefit would be that we would have no salinity problem caused by the salt that is pushed into the river by the flow off from irrigation settlements within Victoria. So it seems to me that this is the type of thing we ought to be doing instead of arguing the point about narrow political boundaries. There ought to be some very close inspection and analysis of the results of the constitutional review that took place because one gets sick and tired when trying to look at things on a national basis and the concept of what is best for the country when one has to cling to this lousy idea that one cannot move any further than the boundary of Victoria because the River Murray defines such a boundary or because some mountain range defines the boundary of another State. We have to think nationally of these things in the national interest. I realise that a scheme such as the one to which I have referred involving the central dividing ranges possibly would involve the Queensland, New South Wales and South Australian Governments - thank goodness not the Victorian Government - and the Federal Government. But we are not thinking nationally about these things. 
I want briefly to make some points in regard to the tremendous national wealth that this country has in its natural resources and minerals. We are selling these resources far too cheaply. We are living in an age in which Country Party thinking has been allowed to prevail for too long. Country Party supporters are old horse traders from way back and they think any deal is a good deal. We are selling the best coal and some of the most valuable minerals in the world at lousy royalties or not much better than that. What are we getting in return? We are not getting anything of real value as far as the economy is concerned. If anything things have been deteriorating in regard to our so-called natural resources over the years. If we are sitting on the best pile of uranium in the world then of course we realise that a tremendous amount of capital outlay is required to develop and produce it. But at the same time we should not go crawling around cap in hand all over the world begging people to almost give capital to us. 
That is old Black Jack's idea, but the Government is not selling a bit of the farm every year. It has been giving it away; throwing it away. We are getting nothing in return. What are we getting in return, measured in terms of economic resources for the development of our nation and the creation of industries that are so necessary for this country? We are not getting any return. There ought to be a committee of this House set up to inquire into these things and call for expert opinion from wherever it might come, any political source or any professional source. This is a necessity in this day and age. I think that until honourable members opposite get the cobwebs of their narrow political views shaken out of their heads we will not move in the right direction. In any event, we will move in the right direction next year, when they will get dumped out of office, as they all so richly deserve. 
First of all, I support the amendment. In so doing I want to draw the attention of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to a situation that is arising in South Australia. It was the subject of a question by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  this afternoon. I refer to retrenchments that are about to take place at the Hawker Siddeley Electronics Engineering Division. I am prepared to supply the 
Minister with copies of letters that have been posted up within the precincts of that establishment and also the names of a number of people within my electorate who are expressing grave concern that the Commonwealth Government is not measuring up to its responsibility insofar as the employment of Australians in defence projects generally is concerned. It is time that the Government realised its responsibility to Australians who are contributing to the defence of the country. 
I want to deal briefly with what was said earlier by some of the speakers from the other side of the House. I have mentioned this before and I will mention it again. Honourable members on this side of the House get sick and tired of hearing honourable members opposite suggesting - we heard it again from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  - that nobody on this side of the House has any regard for the defence or the security of this nation. It would appear that those who sit on the Government benches feel that they and only they have the God-given right to murmur anything about the defence of this country. We had a classic example of this from a Government supporter at question time this afternoon. May I remind honourable members opposite that the political party that has played the most important role so far as the defence of this country in its hour of greatest need is concerned is neither of the Government Parties and they should always remember that. 
I also want to make some brief reference to the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He dealt with the amalgamation of the three Services into one on the basis that one day a fellow has an Air Force uniform and the next day may appear in a naval uniform. This is the wrong approach to the whole question of a united defence force. The ultimate in defence from a Service point of view - and I remind honourable members opposite of this - is a combined operation, and the proper concept of a combined operation is to have the 3 Services welded together. One of the greatest failures of combined operations during the early part of the last World War - in fact this occurred more or less during the whole of the war - was that they always seemed  to  be disadvantaged by the fact that- 
No, it is not. Although you are the Minister for the Navy, do not interrupt on the basis that that is what you think he said. I am putting this proposition to the House. 1 am on my feet and you are sitting down, and you should remain so for the time being. What I am trying to point out to the Minister for the Navy is that the proper concept of a combined operation is a joining of the 3 Services. The honourable member for Moreton hoped that as far as training and identification were concerned the 3 Services would remain as they are at the moment. My reply to that is that we ought to get away from the concept of the 3 Services because the ultimate in a defence concept is that the 3 Services will work closely together. So why the hell should we continue to live in the past by keeping them separated from almost every purpose but the most crucial of ail from the defence point of view? That is the point I wanted to make. 
I agree with the honourable member for Moreton that it is time the Minister for Defence made a statement on defence in this Parliament, so that it might be debated, instead of raising matters of defence during the adjournment debate. Instead of quarrelling with his officers, as he was last week, and perhaps being prevailed upon by some members of his Party to take the big stick to his Department, he should present in the Parliament a statement that could be properly debated. I would hope that such a statement would be different from that made by his predecessor, which covered some 46 pages. At the time all that Minister could do was drive a knife in the back of his chief executive officer and twist it. I hope that the present Minister will approach this matter in a different way. 
This Government's defence policy is totally inadequate to the needs of this country even accepting, as I do, that at this point of time we will not be trodden underfoot tonight by a great horde of Asiatics. The way this Government has gone on in the last week in regard to the Cambodian situation is not only shocking but absolutely amazing. I believe, as many others in the community believe, that what Alan Barnes said in an article in today's 
Melbourne 'Age' is correct. Somebody is telling lies to somebody else. If this is the way honourable members opposite approach questions relating to our defence how can they claim to be members of the only Party in the Commonwealth to whom the security of this nation can be entrusted? Here is a classic example. Let me turn to another which concerns every honourable member. I refer to the Press conference held by our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he was in New York. A copy of that conference ought to be framed and given to every school child in this country to reveal to these people, who might live in an age when they will need to be defended, the type of situation which confronts this country today as a result of this Government's policies - a government that is absolutely divided on this issue. The Prime Minister was asked this question in New York: 

 Sir, was there a request from the Cambodian Government to our Government to train their men in South Vietnam? 
This is the reply: 
That I don't know. 1 don't think there was . . . What I am trying to do . . . you are "putting me through a crossexamination at a time when 1 have had so many tremendously important problems to deal with. 
I have never heard so much trash in all my life. Honourable members opposite should take the Prime Minister to task on his return from overseas. Honourable members can go into the Parliamentary Library and obtain a copy of the Prime Minister's Press conference which he held before he left this country. Once again he was questioned by members of the Press. Surely they have a right to question the Prime Minister. That conference was a complete and utter shambles on a simple question. 1 want to take up a matter raised here last week. I hope to goodness that the House will listen to the honourable member for Moreton tomorrow on the matter which he gave notice of today. I want to draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that what was said in the 'Age' was not disputed, so  somebody is  covering up. This matter was discussed by the Cabinet of this country almost 6 months ago. Why was it hidden from this Parliament? The Minister for the Navy interjected earlier. He may nol have been a member of the Cabinet at that time but the question 1 pose to the present Minister for Defence is: Why did he stand in this House during the course of most of last Wednesday afternoon, along with other members of the Government, making excuses for this intolerable mess over the training of Cambodian forces in South Vietnam. The Cabinet itself had dealt with the question just after the Prime Minister became the Prime Minister, if he is one. The fact is that the Minister withheld it from the Parliament. He has not been honest in his deliberations as far as this Parliament is concerned. You do not play this matter down as easily as you seek to play down the guilt of those responsible for over involvement in Vietnam. We have never been fully informed as to how we became involved. The grovelling attitude of the Prime Minister on his trip overseas in regard to the defence of this country is nothing short of shocking and I do not say that because of the fact that we will not regard certain treaties as being on the basis on which they ought to be regarded. I do not think there is any need for any Australian to carry on in the manner in which the Prime Minister has carried on in an endeavour to make a cheap political point. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
That progress be reported. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! Does the honourable member for Sturt claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. 
The honourable member is very gracious. During the course of his reply the Minister described me as an extreme left-winger. I claim to have been misrepresented on the basis that I am well aware and at all times conscious of the distortion of which the Minister is capable. The distortions that he has levelled at members on this side of the House will be used in an unscrupulous political manner at some future date. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is debating the matter. Where does be claim to have been misrepresented? 
I claim that the Minister is misrepresenting me in referring to me as a left-winger. I want to let him know that you need  2  wings to fly and it is a long time since he has been able to do that with any degree of success. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United Stales of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Sturt respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young mcn are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that section twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
It is indeed depressing to have had in this House only a few weeks ago a matter of considerable concern to the apple and pear growers not only in Tasmania but in other States of the Commonwealth and tonight to hear the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  report to the House that the Apple and Pear Board had to reject certain offers. 1 want to make this strong comment to the Government and particularly to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon):  It should not be the responsibility of the Apple and Pear Board to get angry about this matter and reject the offers, lt is time this Government accepted its responsibilities and told these pirates from overseas to go to hell and to take their ships with them. The Minister entered the debate earlier tonight and he can have a look at every one of the statements made by himself and his predecessors along with the documents prepared by the former leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen. On each occasion that a new vessel has entered the trade in Australia they have spoken in grand and glowing terms about what each ship would mean to the shippers and producers in Australia. In fact, they have not been worth a damn and not one member of the Government has the guts and courage to stand in this place and repeat the words used at the various ship launchings. Their speeches may as well lie on a seat in this chamber for all the good they have been. 
In the very short time that is available to me I want to draw to the attention of the Committee the complete obsession of the Minister and his colleagues with industrial disputes. Let me hasten to say that such disputes are not without their bearing on costs. I will not dispute that, but it is just not good enough to say that so far as the Darwin trade, the coastal trade and the overseas trade are concerned, industrial disputes constitute the whole of the problem. Let me inform the Minister that the United Kingdom shipping lines which have formed a huge consortium put up with the worst industrial demarkation dispute in the history of shipping. The Minister is well aware of that.  1  hope that he replies to me on this but if he replies other than by way of agreement with me then he should not be the Minister because it would mean that he did not know what he was talking about. The fact is that Southampton and London were tied up for month in and month out to such an extent that the first container ship in a great many months destined for the United Kingdom-continent trade did not tie up with any United Kingdonn port. Is that not right? 
I am glad you agree. They had to go into a Dutch port. 
Rotterdam. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  is right. Do not compare the industrial situation in certain West German ports with Australian and United Kingdom ports because applying in West Germany is the same understanding of industrial relations that the Government has in this country. The Government and Ministers of various departments should apply themselves to the concept that there should be a proper basis of understanding industrial relations so far as any huge technological change is concerned. Until the penny drops and the Government realises that it will have disputation in every port throughout the Commonwealth. If the Minister does not recognise this by now I suggest, if he has not relegated to the wastepaper basket all records of what he and his predecessors have said, that he take these speeches home, read them, count to ten and bite his tongue and he will once again realise that what I have said is true. The Government is heading for another period of similar industrial circumstances because at a time when the existing agreement is running out it is doing nothing but harass the trade unions, the employers and the stevedoring companies to ensure that there is not a proper agreement. This is because it wants an industrial dispute for its lousy, narrowminded political purposes. I am sorry that I cannot describe it in better language but it is the best I can do. I resume my seat on this note: The Minister cannot deny that what I have said is true. The Government and the Minister have a responsibility to the growers of apples and wheat. And mark you this, in conclusion: China did not take one grain of wheat from Australia on any Conference Line vessel. She chartered her own ships because she would not be bound by the pirates and the burglars that the Government bows and scrapes to year in and year out. 
Tonight I want to deal with an attack that has been made by a member of this House on the person who has been selected by the South Australian Government to become the Governor of South Australia. I read in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' a report that  Sir Mark  Oliphant has been attacked by the Liberal member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I wish to take the honourable member for Boothby to task, although he is not present in the chamber, because of the terms which he has used to refer to  Sir Mark  Oliphant. He has said that  Sir Mark  is identified with the Left and that he is not fit to be the Governor of South Australia because of the fact that he is politically committed.  His  criticism is based on the fact that  Sir Mark  Oliphant is a member of certain associations. Why does not the honourable member for Boothby stand up and say that he was in Russia recently and drank so much vodka that it was running out of his bootlaces? Yet, the honourable member has seen fit to attack the appointment of a most eminent Australian and a most eminent South Australian to the position of Governor of South Australia. 
Hardly one word of criticism has been heard of the appointment of this very competent person. Rather have most Australian newspapers throughout the day applauded the appointment of  Sir Mark  Oliphant. The honourable member for Boothby who, I repeat, is absent from the chamber, insults the monarchy when he sees fit to criticise this appointment in the way In which he has. Only today have all honourable members received in their offices this booklet of some 30 pages entitled The Monarchy in Britain'. Australia gets a mention in the back of this book together with Canada, Barbados, Uganda and other countries. That is the only reference to Australia in the whole of this document. It has been produced at some great expense. I hope that our taxpayers did not pay for it. 
I wish to make some reference, if I may, to a speech that was made recently by your leader,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I refer to the leader of the 'Flash 8' - that is, the Country Party in this House. I call that Party the 'Flash 8' because at the last general election its members obtained about 8 per cent of the total vote. The fact is that your leader, the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  went into South Australia and was at a show at Clare which is one of the wine growing areas of that State. While at that meeting, he said that while the Australian wine industry was having some problems, these problems were only associated with producers of lower quality, cheaper wines sold in bulk. Manufacturers of good quality wines had little to worry about. 
I hope to goodness that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who represents wine growing areas in South Australia does not go off on that note when he comes to debate the matter which he has on the Notice Paper. The Acting Prime Minister deserves to be condemned for saying this type of thing. It was only yesterday that Australia's 2 greatest wine producers and principal growers complained bitterly once again at the attitude of the Government with respect to its excise on this industry. 
Those remarks fetch me to another matter. The leader of the Country Party - your Leader,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - frightened of the fact, I understand, that the Government will suffer defeat at the next election wants an early election. He did not tell the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  about his wish. However, the Prime Minister got the word somewhere because I see that he is bleating off from London, or somewhere, that we can expect an election in March. If he is an honest person, he ought to return and make Aus tralian history - the only history that he will ever make as a Prime Minister - by seeking a double dissolution of both Houses of the Parliament. He should let the people unravel the shocking mess which he and his immediate predecessors, along with the Country Party, have placed this country in. 
The Acting Prime Minister goes off in the Press and says that he is sending letters to ask more than 50,000 Country Party members throughout Australia their views on the future of the Party. The Acting Prime Minister is so bereft and barren of ideas, as is the Party which he leads, that he has to send out 50,000 letters in the hope that the Country Party will get a few replies to give it some form of guidance for the future. Here is a Party, which forms a coalition government after receiving 8 per cent of the total votes cast at a general election, the leader of which is writing to 50,000 of his Party's hard core supporters - the Party still hopes that it has that number of supporters - asking them to give the Party some guidance. This is done at a time when we are in the middle of a debate on the Budget for this financial year. What a great cop it must be. What a great example of positive leadership from the adjunct of the Government - a Party which receives only 8 per cent of the total votes cast in a general election - to send out 50,000 letters asking for guidance. I wonder whether the Country Party sent a letter to  Sir Mark  Oliphant to seek his guidance. It always used to invite him to its functions. It would bc interesting to see whether his opinion was sought and if so, it would be interesting to note that gentleman's reply. The Acting Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party wants to ask these 50,000 people whether the Country Party ought to continue in coalition with the Liberal Party. The Country Party should have enough nous to wake up. If it is to do any good for the country and for the people it represents its representatives in this Parliament - whether they have been elected by a low percentage or not - ought to have enough courage to make up their own minds as properly elected and so-called responsible members of this Parliament. Did the Country Party have to write 50,000 letters? Imagine the Labor Party dropping 50,000 letters to the trade union movement to seek guidance. That would lift the roof off this place. 
This is what the Country Party has done. It wrote 50,000 letters seeking guidance as to whether it should continue to support a Government which is at such a low ebb as this one that has been sitting on the treasury bench for the last . 20 years. The Leader of the Country Party also asked whether the Country Party should become an independent centre party. What did he mean by that?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask you as a member of the Country Party, or any one of your colleagues over there, to get on your feet after I have finished and tell us what is meant by a centre party in relation to responsible government in this country. The Leader of the Country Party asked whether the Party could best assure its future by intensifying activity in the country and large towns. The Country Party has brought them all to ruin. Now that it has brought them to ruin it starts to send letters saying 'Well now, mate, what do you think we ought to do about you?' The right honourable gentleman then asked whether the Country Party could assure its future by broadening the scope of its political base by fielding candidates in metropolitan areas. So the Country Party has given the country blokes away for dead, has it? That is what it means. It has sold them down the drain in 101 ways and the Leader sends out a letter like this when he is in office. After having sent the country people to the wall he says: 'We write you off. You are not worth anything to us. We will see whether we can get in with the industries in the metropolitan areas.' In the same way John McEwen gave away sheep and went in for cattle. That is typical of the Country's Party's lousy attitude and its irresponsibility to the country electorates of this Commonwealth. The Press report of the Country Party's letter stated: 
Liberal Party officials today expressed surprise at the questioning of the future of the coalition at such a high level in the Country Party. 
I do not know what they are expressing surprise at. The whole of the electorate is expressing disgust at the way they have carried on here in this Parliament at least since I have been associated with it. The Country Party ought to be condemned for sending out a letter of this type. Nobody denies a parliamentarian the right to seek the views of his electorate, but to seek the views in the manner in which the Leader of the Country Party has in this matter is no more than disgusting. 
I do not know who paid the 3½ grand for stamps, but let me make a casual observation. Seeing that the Country Party got 1 million quid recently from Dalgety and the other wool barons, no doubt they paid for the stamps. What are they doing today? They also are deserting the rural areas. They are going into other forms of business. They have raped and taken all they can out of the country. They have taken all they can out of the rural producers, and the small fellows particularly. Measures were passed in the House the other week and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who was at the table at the time is now overseas. He failed to answer the accusations from honourable members on this side of the House about the recent measures to protect the wool industry and the wool grower. In fact no grower in Australia can make direct application for assistance under those measures. All they meant was that Dalgety would have first bite of the cherry and, if that was the whole of the cherry, too bad for the rural producer. That is what is happening and it will continue to happen. 
So the Country Party has deserted its electorate. Dalgety is reaping the benefits from the recent passage of the Bill through this House. The Country Party has got money from them for electioneering funds - $lm, I understand, stacked into safe deposit boxes. Now Dalgety is deserting the rural areas by going into tourism and God knows what else. Just how dishonest can a political party be with the people it ought to represent? By sending out these 50,000 letters it is virtually saying: 'To hell with the rest of the electorate, to hell with the Commonwealth, to hell with responsible government. We have had it. We can see it is a sinking ship and we are going to be the first one to dive out.' 
I desire to enter this debate at this late stage, once again being prompted to get to my feet because of certain allegations made on the other side of the House about the attitude generally of the Opposition as a party compared with the policy of the Liberal and Country Parties' frightful coalition over the past 20-odd years. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  in his contibution to the debate once again praised the great white god, the United States of America, and spoke about the United States being our saviour and how none other than the United States had saved this country during the Second World War. These accusations are that we on this side of the House are somewhat more than subversive because of our actions during the conflict and our attitude now. The adulation by the honourable member for La Trobe of the United States and what it may stand for in world events today and his adulation of what it did in the south west and central Pacific during the last war is such that I must reply by saying that he does not even pay due regard to the efforts of his own countrymen. I remind him that the first time the Japanese were ever defeated, the first time they were ever deprived of a footing anywhere in the south west Pacific, or anywhere in the Pacific for that matter, was at a place called Milne Bay and they were repelled by Australian forces; not one American was near the place. The same could be said about the Owen Stanley Ranges. 
So let us get away from living in the past, in the grand days of the Coral Sea battles and from their commemoration and pay due regard to what the forces of this country were able to do. While on that point, I might also add that this great boasting about what America did during the conflict in the south west Pacific area fails to pay regard to the British soldier and to the Chinese who kept millions of Japanese forces employed so that these forces could not be deployed to this region or to the islands to our north during the Second World War. Let us end this adulation of America. And let me say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that the manner in which he carried on in the United States a few weeks ago was absolutely sickening. He should have felt absolutely ashamed for having attacked his own country whilst he was in America as though doing so would make him feel 10 feet tall.  His  actions were nothing less than absolutely shocking and his ducking and shoving in front of television cameras and the media when he came back was just as bad. He could not defend his actions in any shape or form and we do not want the likes of the Minister in this country- 
lt is all right for the media to say something; that is acceptable in this place. Questions can be asked as a result of what appears in the media.  Mr Chairman,  if a member of this side of the Committee stands up and wishes to put his own point of view on the manner in which a member of the Ministry carried on overseas, he is subjected at all times to some form of ruling from the Chair. I say that I have not been unparliamentary. The Minister's grovelling attitude from a national point of view was somewhat shameful. For a Minister to go overseas and to refer to his own country as being insignificant and to refer to his own colleagues in the manner in which he did is, as I said before, absolutely disgraceful. I can find no other word to describe his behaviour. 
Why should I be hypocritical and pad my remarks with some parliamentary phrase or term which would be acceptable to yourself? I do not expect you to accept what I say if what I say in this Committee is unparliamentary. But surely I am not being unparliamentary when I stand here to tell the truth as I see it. I was not the only one who made the observations that I have just made. I am not the only one in this Committee who has done so because similar observations were made by the Minister's parliamentary colleagues. 
Now the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is overseas, and the spectacle has become worse. Wherever he has gone he has brought this country into absolute ridicule in the field of foreign affairs. We have had this same grovelling attitude on his part as though Americans are the only people who populate the earth and if we in Australia do not bow to every whim and wish and if we do not abdicate in favour of the United States all of our national responsibilities which the people elected us to perform, we must be considered to be traitors with respect to the grand and great alliance with the United States. What a lot of absolute rubbish! What brought America into the last World War? It was the bombing of its own territory. Did she give a damn about what happened elsewhere? Somebody said this afternoon that no warning was given of Japan's intentions. What absolute rubbish! French Indo-China was taken by the Japanese months before- 
Yes. We were warned in 1938 by John Curtin. The interjector is quite correct. The bombing of its own territory brought America into World War II. The war was brought to America's doorstep. It did not give a darn about Britain being alone in 1940. America was worried about ils own interests. Its own interests at that time could be protected only by going into the South West Pacific area. Where el;.e. I ask honourable members, could America have gone? So there is no necessity for this grovelling attitude that has been adopted for so many years with respect to America by honourable members opposite. 
Le: me say this: The old concept of foreign affairs based on defence, as it used to be, has gone forever. Asiatics today are making decisions on behalf of Asian countries. In the days in which the Government's present thinking originated - its thinking has not changed - this never occurred. Britain was doing all the thinking for many of the Asian countries, was it not? Britain is not doing that today. It is time that that simple basic fact was grasped by the Government. It should have grasped that fact years ago. The great American influence with its charitable type of outlook does not exist in China today as it did before the outbreak of the second World War. This type of thinking is not found today, even in Europe, as it used to be found years ago. The Government must realise that today the Asians are able to do their own thinking. 
What bold stand has Australia taken in the last few weeks in the field of foreign affairs on the question of India and Pakistan? I am not talking about the great human problem associated with the refugees there. Where has there been a positive stand by the Government whose members say that they believe in the free concept of the western world, if I may describe that belief in that way? What has the Government done? It is making exactly the same mistakes in 1971 as one of its former Prime Ministers made with regard to the Middle East situation some years ago. He went to Egypt on his Suez Canal exercise and was kicked out of the place. The attitude that was adopted with regard to the Aswan Dam project led to Egypt turning to the Eastern bloc countries to which it is allied today. I agree with honourable members that this area is one of the trouble spots of the world. 
Yet honourable members opposite and Ministers who sit at the table here have failed to grasp the tremendous problem India faces and the prospect of serious conflict between India and Pakistan at any time. The threat to world peace of conflict between India and Pakistan is like a timebomb which could explode tomorrow. Once again the Government has been inactive. It has been grovelling to America which is supplying arms to one of the countries concerned. Through its inactivity the Government has proved itself incapable of grasping the initiative. It should have sent someone to India to give some advice, but without interfering in the way in which this Government has interfered in the affars of other Asian countries. 
The fact that the Australian Government has been inactive in this matter and has not been prepared to do anything means that it will be damn well guilty of driving the Prime Minister of India once again to the Eastern bloc countries. The Government will be crying about this situation in a few months time or in a few years time followng political changes which may occur in India. India may be in the Eastern bloc camp. The Government will moan about that, but it will not accept responsibility for it. Part of the responsiblity for that happenng must rest with the Government. For goodness sake, stop playing petty 18th century type politics with respect to foreign affairs. The Government should get down to a proper basis of what ought to be the appropriate, correct and proper understanding of international relations for the good of mankind, not for the good of the few, or to prop up a government which is not worth propping up as the Government has been doing in the 
South East Asian area. That is the line of thought that the Government ought to follow. It ought not to think in gunboat diplomacy terms and say that it is justified in doing what it is doing because a couple of ships are in the Indian Ocean- 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Tonight we have before us the question of housing, and the first thing I want to draw to the attention of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  now that he has just wan- dered back into the chamber to resume his seat at the table, is the fact that we are discussing this matter in the presence of very few Liberals. How many Liberals have we got in the place? 
Yes we have, there are 3. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  is there along with a couple of Country Party supporters. Even the flash 8 per centers are not in very good attendance tonight. First of all, 1 want to say that the Government's attitude towards housing has not done much over a great number of years. Let me quote from the speech that was made in 1949 by the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Menzies  as he then was, the leader of the Liberal Party endeavouring to achieve office, which he did. and that Party remained there since then to the unfortunate lot of the Australian people. He said: 
Except in relation lo the Territories and Wai Service Homes, the direct responsibility for housing is with the State governments. But the Commonwealth must accept large obligations of assistance. There is already a Commonwealth-Slates Housing Agreement. We will seek its amendment so as to  permit  and aid 'little Capitalists' to own their own homes. 
We will attack the basic causes of under production. . . . 
The Government has done nothing. 1 would throw this speech back over to the Government side of the House if there was anyone there to catch it, but there is not. The fact is that the Government has done nothing in regard to the basic necessities or to remedy those ills which have been associated with the industry for so long. In addition to that, it has not recognised its obligations to the people in the community who are desirous of Owning their own homes. Liberal Party supporters have sat here and said what their policy is, and by saying that and not producing a policy in any depth or with any forward view to it they perhaps thought that that was just good enough in this day and age. The honourable member for Bennelong, an old speculator from way back, made millions out of almost rackets that have been going on for years. He gets up in this House from time to time and makes a speech on housing. He cries crocodile tears about what the local councils do. He does not give a damn what the local councils do. 
All he worries about is that the investors get more than their fair share of the cake, and that is what is usually- 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I think the Minister should tell this House- 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are amateur sporting bodies requiredto pay sales tax on sporting goods and equipment. 
If so, will he assist those in the community who have the welfare of youth at heart by taking steps to remove sporting equipment from the Schedule of the Act which requires sales tax : to be paid on this type of equipment. 
I wish to support the amendment which was moved prior to the adjournment of the debate, whereupon we heard a very good speech by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The amendment provides that:  the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to include a Schedule of the Agreement between the State of South Australia and the Commonwealth with conditions relating to the approval by the Parliament and provisions relating to the amounts payable to the State, the rate of interest, and repayment conditions by the State. 
I would think from his remarks that the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr 
Whittorn) would support this amendment. He stood for some considerable portion of the 20 minutes allotted to him in which to speak earlier in this debate and questioned the Government at some length on where the money was going that was being appropriated under the measure now before this House. From his interjections we on this side of the House could be sure of his vote in support of the amendment. He is the first honourable member from the Government side 1 have heard since 1 have been in this House question in any way, shape or form where money has gone. We usually hear the Liberal Party cry: 'Where is the money coming from?' 
We are witnessing in this House once again the spectacle of an industry which has unfortunately been brought to financial min and requires financial assistance from the Commonwealth because it has not been guided adequately and properly and in the national interest by the Federal Government. It is some 10 years since the first whispered conversations began between people in Australia and people in the United Kingdom as to the possibility of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. These indications have been completely ignored by those Commonwealth departments which I would consider most certainly to have had a responsibility to an industry such as this. This Government has stood idly by with an attitude best described as absolute indifference to the State governments which have made some attempt, spasmodic as it may have been, to guide the industries within their borders. This Government cannot deny that it was without knowledge of the expansion within the fruit industry in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. It cannot deny the fact that there has been an increase in acreage from the early post-war years following demobilisation after the Second World War. There has been an increase along the Murray River generally and in the irrigation areas as  a  result of the Snowy 
Mountains hydro-electric scheme. What has the Department of Trade and Industry done to find new markets abroad? Why is it mat the Government has not questioned some of the ties it has placed around itself with regard to some form of international agreement and which have inhibited grower organisations in Australia from expanding into existing markets and exploring others? The Government has not done anything in this regard. 
One of the reasons, of course, is that we are experiencing a great number of problems in the industry. One of the reasons why fruit is being allowed to fall to the ground, and one of the reasons why one member of the community who took up land in the Shepparton area went berserk last year and threatened the lives of some unfortunates on a weighbridge adjacent to one of the great establishments in the canning industry, is the lack of foresight of this Government. This man could not stand the fact that he was losing thousands of dollars each year as a result of the attitude or the non-attitude of the Government. One of the last reports I read shows that one of the principal companies in the industry is being imposed upon as far as freight rates are concerned. How often have honourable members opposite heard me on this question? The long overdue benefits to the growers and to the canneries from the containerisation concept are still being awaited. Rather than there being any benefit to the industry generally, to shippers generally and to growers generally, these people are now having greater costs imposed upon them. The only costs which Government supporters will bear in mind perhaps are those in the limited area of wage and salary increases in this field. I say 'limited' because the number of employees in this industry is somewhat limited compared, for example, with the vehicle building industry in which the number of employees is far greater. While the Australian Government can say that we have had ships built and we now have ships carrying the national flag, can the Government honestly say that those ships that carry the national flag and those ships built - I say this for the benefit of the honourable member for Balaclava - with taxpayers' money, at taxpayers' expense, operate in competition with the monopoly shipowners who have plied here for a considerable number of years? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)The honourable member is making only a passing reference to this matter. There is no substance in the point of order. 
That goes to show the absolute ignorance of the honourable member who has just interposed. He seems to feel that the cost of freight has no bearing on the matter before us. We are debating a measure to appropriate millions of dollars for this industry and one of the reasons it is being appropriated is that this Government has done nothing to place ships at the disposal of the industry and to place the shippers of this country in competition with the existing shipping lines. The mistake the Government has made is that it has not placed the ships that fly the Australian flag in competition with other ships. It has allowed itself to be conned into the situation whereby Australian taxpayers' money is being used for these ships which, while flying the Australian flag, will trade within the conference system that operates. They will operate within a particular consortium. They cannot go into direct competition for the purpose ot reducing freight rates. It was said by a previous Minister for Trade and Industry, in fact by the previous member for Murray prior lo his retirement from this House, that this was one of the aims and the goals set for these ships. So why should I not mention the matter of freight rates in this debate tonight? 
What has been done about new markets for our canned fruit? We see neighbouring South Africa growing the same type of product about which we are talking in the debate on this Bill and shipping it twice as far to Singaporean markets at half the freight costs - and the honourable member for Balaclava wonders why I mention this matter. The Minister for Primary Industry had better check what I say. He will find that it is near enough to true as damn it is to something else. South Africa ships canned fruits twice as far as we do. mind you, to a market on our doorstep. 
Never mind about the subsidy. If the Minister wants to talk about subsidy, of course the whole of rural industry today is still crying out for subsidy, and the Government is falling over backwards in some areas to provide it. I am saying that the same product that is produced in Australia is taken from South African ports to Asian markets which are twice as far from South Africa as they are from this country. Why is that so? Why is it that Australia should be denied markets because of that restriction? That is something which the Minister for Primary Industry, when he was Minister for Shipping and Transport, should have looked at instead of waiting for the parliamentary recesses to say the things he said - a very cunning move. The Minister need not look at me dumbfounded.. In the drawer underneath my desk here where I sit I. have a whole pile of speeches he made from Darwin to Cairns to Carnarvon during parliamentary recesses about what he would not do with the shipowners when he got back into the House come the Budget session. And what did he do? Absolutely nothing. He can have these speeches any time he wants them. I think I have said that before, lt is action we want in this place and not words from the likes of Ministers I consider to be damned well incompetent in the national interest. I make no apology for saying that. 
No, 1 do not claim to be an expert. If you fellows claim to be experts there is a very good old saying for it. 
Is the Prime Minister  aware that the take-home pay of the minimum wage earners in Australia with dependent wives and children is less than 5 per cent of the present total weekly wage of the Prime Minister? Does he consider the differential to be justified? Will his Government undertake to restore wage values to such workers to enable them to live above the poverty line? 
Before the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  leaves the chamber let me remind him that there sits a man who served in the New South Wales State Parliament under Premier Askin for years, and has said on 3 occasions in this chamber during the course of his speech that, because of representations contained in a letter that Premier Askin wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Premier is nothing more than a liar. Let the honourable member for Paterson find his courage and go back to Sydney and inform Askin that he is a liar on several counts. Let me ask the honourable gentleman whether he is aware of the fact that in the last few days a colliery has closed down in his very electorate. Let me also remind the honourable gentleman- 
What is the difference whether it is weeks or days? In addition to that let me also say that in the electorate of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  because of the closure of collieries and reduced production by the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd there is a rising rate of unemployment in the coal fields areas. But the honourable member cannot obtain the figures of unemployment in his own electorate, at the direction, as I understand it, of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who is not even in the chamber at the moment. Let me deal with the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition in this regard. Let us get away from the divisions and the discriminations of this Government in a measure such as this. One would have thought that if the Government had a skerrick of sincerity in its body or a sincere thought in ils mind the Prime Minister would not, as he did a couple of days ago, have hastened into the chamber in the midst of a debate, interrupted the debate and made a statement, which I hold aloft here, of a page and a half about what the Government intends to do about the very serious unemployment problem within the rural sector. 
The Prime Minister, having just returned from overseas, could do no better on a television programme than sit and say that he knew where he was going. He even had to borrow that phrase. Whilst he was overseas he learnt from the 'Economist' newspaper in Great Britain that that was the theme that the Prime Minister of Great Britain had used in a talk to a Conservative Party rally. If honourable members do not believe me let them go into the Library and look up one of the September editions of the 'Economist'. They will see 'This is where we are going', ls this the type of thing we expect from the Government in the national Parliament of this country, facing the problem of an unemployment figure that can reach in excess of 150,000 in the next 3 or 4 months? The Prime Minister comes into the chamber with a scrap of paper. Has he not sufficient parliamentary draftsmen to draft a Bill so that the Opposition can see what is provided, where the money is. going and what the money is to do? The Government should be condemned forever. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who spoke initially in this debate on behalf of the Government, pointed out - and correctly so - the unemployment figure for the metropolitan area of Adelaide. However 1 think the figure he gave of about 70 per cent of the total unemployment in South Australia being in Adelaide was somewhat conservative. 
They were somewhat conservative because the official figures are more than conservative. What can be expected of a Government . that has been in office for 22 years which has created this monster and which has erected the tombstones of unemployment throughout the length and breadth of this country? What can one expect of it when it comes in with a measure .without any degree of seriousness about it but on which it must stand condemned because the problem it seeks to solve is of its own creation? The Government now has to tell the world how ineffective it has been. The few honourable members opposite who are in the chamber ought to be reminded of the statement on full employment that was made by Robert Gordon Menzies back in 1949 when he conned everybody. I have a copy of it here if they want to read it. How can we expect anything from a Government that has been so long in office? The Country Party, which receives only 8 per cent of the votes across the nation, has in this Parliament a number of seats quite out of balance with the number of people who support it. This comes about because of the weighted advantage that the Country Party has in country electorates. 
What does the honourable member for Patterson expect $2m to do? What does he expect men such as the man who walks into the chamber now, the Prime Minister, to do? The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  asked what the newspapers were saying about the Prime Minister. The newspapers are saying that Billy McMahon says: 'You will be all right. Australia can take the lead'. It is enough to make anybody with any sense of responsibility in this place shudder. The Prime Minister sneaks into the chamber - and I say it to him while he is sitting in the chamber - interrupts the debate and makes a snap statement. Somebody winds him up, he unwinds in this House for 10 or 15 minutes on a. statement such as the one he made a while ago, and then he clears off again until somebody else winds him up by mentioning trade unions or something of that nature. 
You need not interject while I am speaking. I ask the protection of the Chair from the Prime Minister. The time is well overdue when the Prime Minister should rise in this place and make a statement about matters concerning the public of this country. I challenge you,  Sir- 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Council for the Arts make finance available to the Craft Council of the Slates for the purpose of encouraging development and promotion of Australian crafts last financial year. 
If so, will he ensure that a similar contribution is made available in 1971-72 to enable the Crafts Council to pursue further the already excellent work being undertaken by it. 
In the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Department of Foreign Affairs chartered a Japanese ship or some other foreign owned ship to carry Australian food and medical aid to Bangla Desh? If so, why is not this aid to be carried in an Australian ship manned by an Australian crew? Did the Australian National Line and other Australian shipping companies which tendered to carry Australian aid to Bangla Desh submit tenders above or below world charter rates? Did the Australian National Line offer to carry this aid at a freight rate no greater than the lowest foreign tender? If not, why was not this offer made? 
It is not difficult to follow the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  and the contribution that he endeavoured* to make or read to the House. I enter this debate not to go over the figures which my colleagues who have preceded me in this debate have so adequately dealt with but to accuse this Government of creating social bastardisation in this country; I could not find another word to express it. You have created the tombstones of unemployment in every capital, major city and rural hamlet in the countryside. You have done it by following deliberate policies. Never mind about the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  who interposes: 'It is  Mr Hawke'.  That is just so much rubbish and he knows it. While you are on that, just keep quiet about the trade union movement until you are in the Party room and have sufficient courage to say What you want to say next Tuesday night on the opposite side of this building. You can get up in this House after Tuesday night and say what you like about the trade union movement in the light of where your courage might be and in respect of what action you may take next Tuesday evening in your combined Party room. The Government has introduced 2 Budgets since I entered this Parliament :&lt;nd those Budgets were designed to create unemployment and much as many honourable members opposite may like to stand in this chamber, although I can see only 3 Liberals in this House at the moment- 
There are 2 Liberals sitting here; that is all. The honourable member for Angas may enter this debate on behalf of the electorate that he represents and say something about the high handed attitude of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the effect that the increase in steel prices will have on many wine growers in the electorate of Angas. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  went over a wide range of matters in his second reading speech. In the greatest lot of drivel that has ever been placed in the Hansard record of this House he dealt with communism and God knows what else. Later in an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme the Minister saw fit to make some endeavour to support that particular line of view. This is a complete and absolute smoke screen which the people of Australia will not accept today. Nor will they accept it next month if this Government has enough courage to face the people in an election. You ought to be put out of office, lt is no damn good for you to come in here parroting percentages as did the honourable member for Hume. I am not concerned one whit about the unemployment problems associated with other countries and for this very good reason: Those who are unemployed in Western Germany and those who are unemployed in the- United Kingdom do not happen to be my constituents. 
Thank you. lt is about time the honourable member started to think about this. Our constituents are the people who should be the concern of this Parliament. We have no control over the unemployment situation in the United Kingdom, in Western Germany, in Eastern Germany for that matter, or anywhere else. This Government by its policies has created unemployment in this country. Now what do you propose to do about it? Each and every one of you who has entered this debate, and Ministers in answers to questions since this sitting resumed last Tuesday, have blamed the increase in wages as the cause of the situation today. Now we hear about a 9 per cent rise by BHP in the price of building steel. Probably next week we will see the same thing with petrol. What action do you propose to take about that? What criticism have you got to make? Only yesterday afternoon you refused to allow to be tabled a letter which was the subject of considerable discussion in this House. Why? Many of you were fearful because the letter contained demands. 
 I want to raise a matter tonight which was raised in some way during question time today. I do not think that the Standing Orders of the House preclude me from raising this matter in the adjournment debate. It deals with a number of dedicated civilians who have been engaged for some considerable time in Vietnam for the Save the Children's Fund. This organisation involves a number of people from South Australia who, over the years, have been collecting a great deal of aid. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  will pay some attention - if he will get off the air and stop talking to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  - because this matter involves his Department. Since the withdrawal of our forces from Vietnam it has been found that a number of articles that have been collected by organisations for the purpose of relieving suffering in Vietnam cannot be transported there. Once again I suggest that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should listen and not show his absolute ignorance. These goods can no longer be transported to Vietnam because the Royal Australian Air Force has withdrawn from that area. I understand that representations have been made to the Minister and his Department, yet no assurance has been given that these goods that are donated are likely to be transported to Vietnam where these people- 
During the adjournment debate last night I dealt with a matter relating to the Parliamentary Handbook. From what I said it may have been taken that I was casting a slur on the staff of the Parliamentary Library, particularly in some sectors. I want to deny that I had any such intention. My understanding is that what appears in the Parliamentary Handbook does not appear there unless the final draft is approved by the member concerned. 
I have been sitting here for some considerable time observing what I consider to be a shocking state of affairs. Some honourable members opposite are continually casting aspersions at members of the Opposition because of our attitude to some of the legislation introduced by this Government in its term of office, and particularly in the late 1950s and 1960s. I want to challenge particularly some of the younger members in this chamber. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  comes readily to mind, as does the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is now at the table. I have checked copies of Hansard and have found that they are 2 members who have supported the Government continually in sending young men of this country to Vietnam, while they themselves have not the courage of their convictions. It irks me that this state of affairs should continue. I see,  Mr Speaker,  that you are somewhat uneasy. I hope I am not infringing any rules. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has a smile on his face. He has supported legislation to send young men to Vietnam. Why then did he not have the courage to go himself? The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  so capable and able to wield a knife and place it in the back of his colleagues, could have wrung the neck of any North Vietnamese soldier. This is the type of thing that gets under my skin and will continue to do so. 
With all respect to what you have just said,  Mr Speaker,  and while I would be the last person in this chamber to question your rulings, the fact is that the honourable member for Diamond Valley has asked question after question about people who have been thrown into prison in this country because of what he has described as dodging their responsibilities. Members of the Government Parties have said from time to time that the question of law and order is paramount. It has been said that we are on the road to anarchy and so on. 
You need not tell me to shut up,  Mr Minister.  Let me say this to you: A former member of this House was thrown into prison in respect of matters on which he had a strong and valid objection. He served his prison sentence and was elected to this Parliament. He later served this country as Prime Minister and, mark you, fought the passage through this House of a Bill dealing with the very matters in respect of which he had been thrown into prison, but in different circumstances. He took his stand in this Parliament because the country was in peril. Let us hear no more of this rubbish from the pipsqueaks opposite who should have put their duty to the country where their mouths are. 1 am sick and tired of the slurs being cast and the questions being asked in this chamber by members on the Government side who have forced people from this country to fight overseas. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  spoke last night because he misunderstood what I had said on the question of whether certain people were unfit to service overseas. 
Let me say this in this chamber: This Government is guilty of committing at least one man, of whom I know personally, to his death in Vietnam.  His  eyesight was so deficient that he should not have gone there. The day will come when the opportunity will be afforded to me in this House to tell honourable members how the 2 Prime Ministers who have occupied office since I have been here hoodwinked the parents of this deceased soldier in respect of information concerning certain lectures. The fact is that discharged personnel from Vietnam of warrant officer rank have come to see me in my office and have said that while they were in Vietnam they knew of the fact that I had raises in this question. One fellow said tha! he identified himself with a number of training groups in a military camp where it was said that these soldiers were advised adequately as to insurance matters whereas in fact the system of responsibility adopted by the Army was to obtain from the local area any one of a number of insurance company salesmen to lecture the soldiers on insurance. I have the names of such salesmen. So where is the Government's integrity in this regard? Where is the Government's honesty in respect of its conscience? 1 could go through a list of the honourable members who were in this House during this time. I mention the honourable member for Diamond Valley, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who is always opening his mouth here about law and order and responsibility. Where is the Government's responsibility? Where is its responsibility in regard to these young fellows? Since I have been in this place, the only regard that the Government has had in the legislation that it has introduced in the House has been for the false god that it worships of reelection to this place. I say that with all the bitterness that I can command. The Government has fallen down in its job for the country. It has fallen down in its responsibility to assist the growth of this country to be what it ought to be. Not one honourable member opposite can conscientiously say, since I have been a member of this place, that he has carried out his duties to the country and to the people whom he represents at a level better than that of a local shire council member. Honourable members opposite ought to be condemned for their attitude. Is it any wonder that one becomes bitter in this place? 
I hear continual criticism of the trade union movement by honourable members opposite who, as Ministers and supporters of the Government, act with less responsibility than any trade union officers I ha*# ever met - and I have met plenty. Many of the people upon whom Government members cast slurs have a greater sense of responsibility to the people whom they represent than any Government supporter could ever hope to have. The fact has trickled through the corridors that the latest poll shows that the popularity of the Government's leader - the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  - is declared to be 28 per cent. Since you fellows have been at him, it has dropped another 1 per cent because you have all been going crook about him. Is it any wonder that honourable members opposite sit where they sit tonight fully recognising that they will be defeated at the next election? Let each and every one opposite if he wishes to accept any sort of challenge at all come to this place next week and put into motion the machinery which allows the people of this country to cast a vote and make a decision as to whether Government supporters are worthy of their wages, salt and effort, because in my opinion they are not worth any of these 3 things. 1 will welcome the day, in fact welcome the hour, when the Government sees fit to do anything for this country. The honour able member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has a motion on the notice paper regarding communism. Recently appointed to the Ministry of this country is the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  who stood in this House not 6 months ago, mark you, and declared that Britain and all the Scandinavian countries were cowards and mongrels because they never came in on the same side of the Vietnam war as Australia did. The appointment of this man to the Ministry is an absolute national disgrace. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  ought to have been given the sack because, when he went overseas last year, he belittled his own country in the most shameful way imaginable. This is the type of government that the people of this country have. It could be said that this is the type of government that the people of this country deserve. It is the type of government that I consider that the country in the future can most ill-afford. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to seek your guidance on the matter of directing questions to Assistant Ministers. I might, if you would permit me, state that corespondence  directed to Ministers has not been replied to by them. I assume that other honourable members have had in the same experience as I have. We have received replies from Assistant Ministers. You will be aware that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  sits in the Senate and that he is represented in this House by a Minister other than the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay).  That particular Assistant Minister has made public statements relative to the extension or otherwise of the Adelaide Airport but as I understand it we cannot ask questions as a result of replies to correspondence and as a result of public announcements that are made from time to time by such Assistant Ministers. The House, I am sure, would appreciate some clarification on this matter. I feel confident that the House would accept that since the appointment of Assistant Minister their position has not been as it was explained by the Prime Minister. They are indulging in a great deal of- 
I was hoping that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  would be in the chamber tonight. Recently a number of questions have been asked in the House relating to the aid that is being shipped to Bangla Desh by Australia being carried on other than an Australian flag ship. Among the various replies given to those questions one by a so-called responsible Minister that he was not going to arrange a plush cruise for Australian seamen. I deplore such a statement from a Minister in this House. Now available to honourable members is the latest report of the Australian National Line. 1 think it would be well for the Ministers who have made certain remarks in an attempt to justify the fact that this cargo is not being taken to Bangla Desh by an Australian flagship to examine this report. I draw the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport to the fact that, among other things, the report deals with the cost-wage structure, as the Minister might like to term it, in the shipping industry. It indicates that there is in fact no great parity between ships that operate between the United Kingdom and Australia and those that operate in many other areas in which the Australian National Line operates. In addition to that, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the truth of what I and other honourable members on this side of the House have said so often, that is, that the Australian National Line, operating as it does as a prisoner, as it were, of the various conferences to Europe, the United Kingdom, Japan and the Pacific route across to the United States of America, is not competitive. The report makes that point quite clear. I hope that the Minister for Shipping and Transport, in dealing with this report in the House at some later stage, will make greater reference to this fact than he has done in the past, instead of continually seeing fit to abuse those within the industry. 
I also want to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that if he has a rundown of the number of employees as set out in the report of the Australian National Line, excluding shore based personnel, he will in fact find that the greater number of people employed by the Line who affect wage structure levels, are the masters, mates, engineers, apprentice engineers and so forth. That information is contained in this report for his information. In addition, I hope that the Minister will this year, instead of taking the attitude that he adopted last year, give closer attention to the costs inflicted on this Line by certain charges that are not reflected in a wages spiral, which is the excuse often given. 
It was said in this House that a vessel was chartered for about $70,000 to ship this aid to Bangla Desh. Coupled with the statement of the Minister about the wage cost structure and the so-called differentia! between the rates of Australian seamen and others - I include, as I imagine the Minister would have included, the rates applicable to masters and officers generally - is the fact that this report does not spell it out at all. But the House ought to know circumstances in which this ship found itself in Australia. It could well be that she was here on a charter voyage and had no subsequent voyage to go on. lt could be that she was destined to go to an Indian port anyway and for that reason could pick up the cargo in Australia at an extremely cheap rate. If that is so, why the criticism in the last few days of the activities of some shippers in Australia? Indeed, some primary producer organisations have seen fit to say. 'To hell with the conference lines. We have had enough of them; we are going to charter our own ships'. 
Honourable members will recall that on many occasions I have dealt in this House with the question of the shipment of wool. I wish to point out that the reports which are now being made available indicate that the method I have suggested ought to apply to the shipment of wool and that that method is now being instituted on the water front. I remind honourable members that there was no great argument with the unions on this aspect. In fact, there has been an absence of any real demarcation disputes insofar as the Australian waterfront and the maritime industries generally are concerned in comparison with what has happened at Tilbury and United Kingdom containerisation ports generally. The attitude of honourable members opposite, particularly supporters of the Australian Country Party, towards the amalgamation of trade unions is one which is not really understood by clear thinking people who have some knowledge of the trade union movement. Anybody with any skerrick of sense would know that an amalgamation would cut out many of the fringe areas of argument. It will be recognised by some that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is in itself a complete and utter barrier to this. One could almost say that the Act has been, since it was first introduced, with its so-called constitutional rights to certain union organisations, responsible for the type of situation with which Australia has been confronted for many years and which is still in existence. I also thought that there were some rather disparaging remarks made in regard to the Seamens' Union of Australia because of the fact that they had made some offer to take aid to Pakistan prior to the war without a request for wages but the same offer was not made later by the Union. I think it should be explained that it was not made because it was recognised by the Union - I think this ought to be put forward - that there was a complete change of circumstances insofar as that at the the fact that they had made some offer the country was without government but such was not the case later when they were protesting against the use of a Japanese vessel. 
In view of the attitude of the Government and the Minister to this very vital means of communication I hope that, the Minister will make a statement to the House so that the matter can properly be debated. I noticed also in the report to which I have referred that interstate transport costs from one container terminal to another have accounted for a great percentage of the cost as it affects the Australian National Line. I suggest to the Minister that before be makes a statement on this matter he should examine the original proposal going back as far as 1963 relative to containerisation to establish whether shippers would be required to carry an additional burden in certain States where there was no .container or terminal port such as South Australia. Between Adelaide and Melbourne there is an enormous carriage of cargo by rail and by road. I think the whole matter should be examined on that basis. 
The report also deals with the question of whether or not the decision for Australia to enter a container shipping agreement has been a wise one in view of the advent of PAD ships and so on. I think the Minister will agree with what I have said before - 1 am still sitting here patiently waiting for him to make some reference to it in this House - to the effect that containerisation has been a failure in Australia. The Minister will readily see where containerisation has failed if he goes to his office and gets a copy of aerial photographs of the port of Sydney and the port of Melbourne which are container ports, and also by telephoning his Department and requesting his officers to dash over a few photographs of 
Rotterdam and some of the container ports in the United Kingdom. By looking at those photographs he will see a complete answer. He will see that there are no bottlenecks in many areas overseas. He will certainly see this in regard to Rotterdam. He will also see that in Sydney and Melbourne there has been, at great expense to the State governments concerned, acquisition in both those cities of land which is entirely inadequate for the carriage of goods in transit as we have seen it in the proper containerisation concept. 
The problem does not end there because of the facts I have referred to such as the acquisition of land for outlets to proper railheads, marshalling yards or whatever you like to call them. The present provisions are totally inadequate and acquisition will be extremely costly. What I would like the Minister to do is to explore the possibilities and make a report on his findings to this House. We have a number of modern containerised and bulk vessels. The Minister should make a report to this House setting out whether we could go it alone on at least one of the great trade routes for the benefit of the people he represents, particularly in the rural areas. Let us put an end to this business of spiralling costs, freight rates and so on that we have experienced over the years. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What criteria were used in his predecessor's statement of 31st May 1971 that Australia's education standard is equal to that of advanced overseas countries. 
Were the findings of the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs consulted before this public statement was made. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
I preface my remarks by saying that there is on my desk a message indicating that the debate would be gagged. I regret that.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  during the course of the statement of the Minister for Social Services, who now lounges at the table, within the last hour or so, he made some rather vicious and vile references to certain members of the Opposition. This appears at page 9 of his statement. I wonder whether the Minister would have the courage to identify the honourable members- 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Sir. Last  Thursday week, as reported at page 803 of Hansard, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  produced to this House a White Paper. At the time he made a rather scurrilous attack upon me, although that afternoon he did not name the person to whom he was referring. He had stated that a certain member of the Opposition had engineered his entrance into this place by taking unfair advantage of the problems of pensioners. Later that Thursday afternoon as 1 passed behind the Minister while he was seated at the table, he swung in his seat and said: 'You are the member to whom I referred'. As a result of that- 
Yes,  Sir. Last  Thursday week, as reported at page 803 of Hansard, the Minister for Social Services said: 
Of course,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I had not named the honourable member for Sturt until he asked me to. 
I did not ever inquire of the Minister about the honourable member to whom he was referring. He volunteered the information as I walked behind his chair that I was the person to whom he was referring. As reported in Hansard, the Minister went on to say that he would withdraw whatever was offensive. I understand that the document read by the Minister to the House is still being circulated by him. If he is prepared to abide by what he is reported to have said in Hansard, he should concede that the whole lot is offensive to everybody in this country and the whole paper should be withdrawn. It was a most scurrilous attack. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in seconding this motion- 
Yes. I said that. In seconding this motion I hope that you will bear with me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because it is quite difficult to speak in support of this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders without perhaps in some way or the other referring to the tax which was so stupidly imposed by the Government in the 1970-71 Budget. I might say that at that time neither the then Prime Minister nor the then Treasurer required an inquiry to be held into the wine industry before imposing such a stupid tax. No such thought entered their minds. What procedures are available to honourable members on this side of the chamber and, indeed, what procedures are available to honourable members on the Government side of the chamber to have this matter fully and properly debated as it should be debated? It is true to say that Government supporters can place a notice of motion on the notice paper, but in the absence of any sincerity it does not mean anything to the people in the community who are concerned and who believe that something ought to be done to undo the damage that was caused by this Government imposing such a tax upon the wine industry. 
In seconding the motion I afford an opportunity to honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  who, I understand, is not in the chamber at the moment, to express themselves adequately and properly in this chamber in regard to this tax. I hope the honourable member for Barker will represent the constituents whose names appear on a petition from the Southern Vales Co-operative Winery Ltd which is in the heart of his electorate in South Australia. Equally I would say that a second opportunity ought to be afforded to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who, as my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has already said, seconded a motion which was designed to abolish the wine tax and which was moved prior to the Christmas recess. Also, this debate affords an opportunity to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who at the moment is sitting at the table beside the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter).  The Minister for Primary Industry engaged in a great deal of double talk at a meeting of wine growers which was called in Berri in South Australia during the course of the last recess. The debate also affords an opportunity particularly to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who has been torn almost limb from limb by constituents from one end of his electorate to the other. The electorate considers that he used the procedures of this House for a cheap political trick. 
By moving this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders we are affording an opportunity to the honourable member for Angas to stand up in this chamber and say what he has been endeavouring to say to his electors since they have hauled him over the coals at his post office meetings, as they are referred to in his electorate, or at other meetings in the corners of his electorate. He can act in the manner in which he suggested he would act - if given the opportunity - at that meeting which was called in the River Murray town of Berri in the last few weeks. Without going into detail at all in support of the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, I want to say broadly,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you will permit me to do so, that the motion ought to be carried in order to enable a debate to take place in this House. I am quite sure that during the course of that debate we will reveal the many shortcomings in the industry resulting from the Government's imposition of this tax. We on this side of the chamber say without fear or question that the damn thing was stupid and that it ought to be abolished straight out; there ought to be no monkeying about. There should be no suggestion as to what we might do when we achieve office. The tax should be abolished. The opportunity ought to be afforded to this House to do that. 
The opportunity ought to be afforded to honourable members generally to say: 'All right, the Government has already said insofar as many of its last budgetary provisions are concerned that it was clearly in error'. It has said that. Before you pull me up,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - I can see that you are getting anxious - I want to say that the Government has admitted its errors insofar as many other areas of the Budget are concerned. But it has been too long in admitting the error in this field that it made in the last Budget. It is time that the Government corrected this evil which it inflicted on a section of the rural industry which was buoyant and showing a considerable growth rate. That growth rate has since dropped as a result of the imposition of the tax. In addition to that, the argument of the Minister for Primary Industry was torn to shreds by a representative of the Brandy Producers Association at the meeting in Berri. The Minister was made to look foolish. I do no think that he ought to be required to go along to another public meeting in South Australia and be dealt with in the manner in which he was dealt with at that meeting by the presentation of cold clear facts. He should be afforded the opportunity of clearing the air and of straightening out in his own mind what he has done. He should be given the opportunity to state in this chamber that he was wrong in looking at figures, which are prepared, no doubt, by his Department from time to time, and in putting the wrong slant on them. If he is not able to refute statements which were made at the meeting to which I referred earlier - I am certain he will not be able to refute them - it will be clear to me that the figures which were presented to that meeting by representatives of the industries were the correct ones. 
It is just not good enough for Government supporters to hark back and refer to wine sales since the tax was imposed almost 2 years ago. The fact is that the grower is getting much less today from his product than he received prior to the imposition of the tax, and that is important. 1 think that the motion which is now before the House affords the opportunity - restricted as those opportunities are for private members - to have the matter debated. We have received heaps of correspondence, a great deal of it in the form of petitions. Articles have been written in newspapers, and expressions of opinion have been stated by those in the industry at the co-operative level, the grower level and the manufacturing level. People are concerned generally at what is likely to be the result of the current harvest because of the Government's imposition of the wine excise. Honourable members who have received representations of the kind to which I have referred ought to be afforded the opportunity by the  procedures of  the House to have the matter debated. 
I conclude by saying once again that the 3 South Australian members to whom I have referred should be afforded an opportunity to debate this matter. In fact, the honourable member for Angas said at the meeting at Berri that he was not a member of the Government. Strictly speaking, that may be correct, but he is a member of the Government Party and he should be given the opportunity to stand in this place and be counted this evening in regard to the matter he raised last session and to show where his courage and his loyalty lay. The honourable member for Angas should show whether his loyalty is towards individuals in his Party or to the people who elected him to this place. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly, pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate  a  joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as  a  normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate- 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners- hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the 85 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I desire to support the amendment because there is the possibility that, perhaps in the next 24 hours, a Bill will be brought before this House which will be the Government's me' hod of curing what it considers to be the industrial ills within the framework of the Public Service. I do not desire to talk about that measure at (his time. I oppose this clause. I can see nothing but disputation arising as a result of the establishment of a single Commissioner who may not be subjected to the type of industrial dispute tha*, is associated generally with industrial organisations. I think the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would be aware that the Bill provides for a complete departure from what we have known in the past in regard to teaching services, particularly in the North ern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, where the services have been under the wing of 2 different States. As a result of this Bill, there is no doubt that already there are moves afoot to form some type of industrial organisation, if I may use that term, by the teachers in the community who will be seeking employment within the provisions of the Bill. As I understand it, they already are no longer associated with their teaching organisations both in South Australia and New South Wales. That is one reason why I oppose this clause. 
The Minister for Education and Science can laugh with his colleague at the table but he should be listening to what is being said on this side of the House. I think it could be said that the Opposition has far greater experience in the affairs of industrial conflict than has the Government and that the Opposition has a better understanding of such conflict. So, I feel that the Minister should give a great deal of thought to what is being said and accept the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. If he cannot accept the amendment, I should like the Minister to tell us where there has been any single jurisdiction in the industrial sphere which has noi caused wide disputation because it was a single authority. The Bill has not made any provision at all for proper and adequate democratic representation. We are not suggesting that there ought to be representation only when industrial conflict is taking place. If the Minister for Education and Science would listen to what I am saying, the amendment has for its purpose - this is most important - the avoidance of industrial disputes, because it would provide representation at the top level. The Commissioner who was responsible could hear the submissions of employee representatives. For that reason, I think that the Minister should give consideration to this amendment. I feel quite sure that he would not lose face if he were to stand in this chamber and say that he had had a further look at the situation and had examined single jurisdiction authorities in other spheres which have led to nothing but conflict, and that he would accept the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
Where has that Minister gone again? He is over with the departmental officials. He is there all the time. He is checking up. Is he ready? Now that the Minister has crept back to the table, I should like from him a definition of a British subject. How stupid can we get in 1972? The Government knocks back a 
German professor who could be of some value to Australia because he is not a British subject. It is as dead as a dodo, and honourable members opposite know it. 
It is as dead as a dodo. Let the honourable member for Mallee rise in this place and tell us his view. I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes).  He does not seem to like Americans now that he has been pushed back onto the back bench, yet for years he has been following his leader blindly on Americanism to the detriment of Australia generally. And other honourable members opposite follow in his footsteps. 
I should like to think that I was an Australian, and it is about time that some of the people on the Government side thought about Australia, spoke about Australia and started to put Australia on the map. That is my view, and what is wrong with that? Run by the League of Rights, as you are, you look at the flag in that light and no other. To come back to the measure, let the Minister rise in this chamber tonight and justify the clause by informing the Committee why it is there. What is his interpretation of a British subject? We have people in this country taking out Australian citizenship to become British subjects. For how much longer are we going to carry on in this stupid fashion? I support the amendment and agree entirely with the remarks made by honourable members on this side of the chamber and with some expressions of opinion that have been made by some honourable members on the Government side who have hastened to the Minister to tell him that he is a damn fool to have this type of provision in a Bill for which he is responsible in this chamber. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person -lan guishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance ' available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I seek a correction of the Hansard record of Tuesday, 21st March, at pages 927 and 928. After speeches by 2 members of the Opposition and one member of the Government on the suspension of Standing Orders to enable a debate to take place on the abolition of the wine excise the House divided, first on the closure and then on the motion of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Hansard shows that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was paired with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor).  My understanding is that no such pair was given, granted or in fact understood. 
I think we would all agree that this morning was a rather difficult time for the Chair, and perhaps I did not make the position abundantly clear. I thank the House for the opportunity to do so now. This morning I was not speaking so much on the basis that the Hansard record was incorrect as on the basis that the information supplied to Hansard was incorrect, and substantially so. Inquiries that I had made of both Whips and of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  showed that he was not at any time paired with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  last Tuesday evening in votes on a motion relating to the abolition of the excise on wine. 
I believe that the Whips should confer on this matter with the 2 honourable members concerned - the honourable member for Angas and the honourable member for Gellibrand - so that a correction can be made in Hansard following their discussions. I am confident that it will be revealed that the factual position was that the honourable member for Angas in fact had abstained from voting in both divisions during that debate. 
My opinion of this piece of legislation introduced by the Government is that it is typical of the legislative brain which this Government has possessed for a considerable period of time. This Government does not approach a parliamentary session with a legislative programme in mind in any way, shape or form. From day to day there appears on the desks of honourable members a blue sheet which gives an indication of the frustrations of a group of people who are in a period of absolute political stagnation, to say the least. Perhaps the wisest thing that we, the Opposition, could have done about this Bill was to oppose it with only one  speaker  because it is such a lousy piece of legislation that it is not worth while standing here in this place and talking about. 1 say that to honourable members on the Government side who see fit to interject while I am speaking. I understand that the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  was a member of the Fremantle Port Authority for a number of years. 1 have never heard his voice raised in this place in an effort to end the industrial disputes that have occurred as a result of what the Authority, of which he was a member, has done from time to time in relation to its employees, yet he -vas directly concerned with the employment aspect. 
Let us consider what the Government proposes to do by this Bill. Let us consider its actions in the parliamentary sense since Federation. This Government, or any single member or supporter of it, or any government of its ilk in the Commonwealth never has been concerned about the conditions of workers and wage and salary earners. They have been concerned only about themselves as parliamentarians. That fetches me to the point,  Mr Speaker,  of what happened just before the end of the last sessional period. Government supporters wanted to push through this place a Bill designed to increase by almost $250,000, if not in excess of that, the salaries of only 54 or 57 public servants in the Commonwealth. But the Government did not give a damn for the Third Division public servants. The Government could not have cared less about them. Yet now it has introduced legislation like this and says that it wants to protect the workers and the interests of the country. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who now once again is checking up on some of his facts with the departmental representatives in this House, recently made a speech in Adelaide. You should see,  Mr Speaker,  the aims he outlined in that speech. It contained nothing about workers conditions, nothing about their hours of work, nothing about their rates of pay and nothing about the fact that the annual leave entitlement of public servants of the Commonwealth has not been increased in 72 years. Not one word,  Mr Speaker,  did he mention about these things. He went on to quote the Liberal Party's aims. He said: 
We believe in our national security and that we should take a responsible place in our geographical region and in world affairs. 
Yet he was talking about industrial matters. He continued: 
We want growth, development and progress, with a balanced economy, in a diversified and industrialised society. We stand for progressive social welfare policies . . . 
That speech was designed once again to hoodwink the people who went along to listen to him on that occasion. This Government has denied the right of association by passing legislation in this House on so many occasions that one can scarcely recall the number. Governments of this ilk never recognised the right to employment in the early days of Federation. The Government, as a conservative party, did not do that. It has not been prepared to recognise the right to employment without fear of victimisation. That sort of thing just does not fit into this Government's philosophy in any way, shape or form. The Government has denied the right to organise. It has denied the right to negotiate. It has denied the right to workers compensation. In fact it opposed it on behalf of the people it has represented through the years. One could say that this Government's attitude was no different from that of the Tory governments of Great Britain about 100 years ago when the first workers compensation Act was introduced in that country. It was claimed that workers compensation would bankrupt the industrial barons of England. That happened almost 100 years ago. This Government has never supported the right to have standard hours of work. Never. What right have the Government parties to introduce a piece of legislation like this? Whether they are in government or otherwise I say to Government supporters, in all sincerity, that they are forcing people into the situation that if they work to regulations they will be punished.  Mr Speaker,  during the course of proceedings in this House only this week you had something to say about this. I will quote your words from Hansard: 1 do not know anything about that ... If the  House is going to behave in this fashion at question time, I will have no option but to enforce the Standing Orders to the full at question time, and I think that would be to the detriment of the working of this House. 

 Mr Speaker, what you said on that occasion on Tuesday afternoon immediately flashed through my mind when I came to consider this Bill and I thought that if you applied the rules, regulations and procedures of this chamber this place would grind to a stop. On Tuesday afternoon it flashed through my mind that that was not a bad point to remember for this debate because the Government is introducing legislation in order to punish people for working to regulations. Where is the Government's sincerity and honesty? I suggest that the Government is devoid of it. This Government as a political party, has never supported the concept of paid public holidays, either federally or within the States. Each Government supporter has the right to stand here - then honourable members for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  and Denison  (Dr Solomon)  are to follow me in this debate- 
You are guilty. You have been here longer than I and you previously have supported legislation more vicious than this in this House. You are nodding your head in assent. You have never recognised the right to annual leave. Your Party has never done that. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Government parties have never expressed an opinion on the right to annual leave. They have never expressed an opinion on the right of employees to sick pay. Never. The Government was forced into all these things I have mentioned - I have not finished yet - by the pressures of organised labour. The Government introduced these things only when it was forced to do so.  Mr Speaker,  your Government and its representatives have been prepared to introduce these things only as a result of the threat of industrial force. 
This has been the history of workers not only of this country but of others as well. As a party or as a government,  Mr Speaker,  you have never had anything to say about the conditions that ought to apply to sick pay. Never. Not even after sick pay was introduced. Your Government,  Mr Speaker,  did these things only when it was forced to do so by some form of industrial action. Now the Government is attempting to prevent industrial action by passing this legislation tonight. This Government is inflicting penalty and pain. This Government and its predecessors never accorded right to long service leave to employees in any way, shape or form. It took years of bitter industrial dispute before the Government would accept the principle and it did so only as a result of pressure -by employers, on some occasions. The Government would not accept this as a party. The Government has never legislated in the interests of female workers in regard to equal pay. The Government opposed it.  Mr Speaker,  members of your Government get up in this House at question time and at other times and completely- 
Members on the Government side have never supported the concept of equal pay for the sexes. As far as the Government is concerned, women in the work force are second rate workers and represent cheap labour. I turn to the 35 hour week. Every time Government members speak on this subject, they prostitute the policy of the Australian Labor Party. Honourable members opposite are hard to believe at any time. 1 invite any one of them to tell1 me where our policy proposes the introduction of a 35 hour week across the board. This is not embodied in our policy. Honourable members opposite know well that it is not part of our policy. They know that they are deceitful. Ministers in answering questions are deceitful. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table, is deceitful on this matter. 
I will withdraw the remark and rephrase it this way: The Minister cannot go out and say that introduction of a 35 hour week is the policy of the Australian Labor Party as it applies to every industrial wage and salary earner in this country, and he knows that. He knows that full well but he ridiculed workers in the Latrobe Valley only a few weeks ago- 
Yes, it has. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Of course, most of the matters that I have covered have been the subject of some form of conciliation and arbitration. I do not think that statement can be denied. So I fail to see where I have really gone outside the matter before the House, as indefinite as it may be. I agree that it has an industrial context. I will bow to your suggestion. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service ought prior to the drafting of this legislation, to have paid closer attention to the 1969 report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Minister's attention should be drawn to page 20 of that report. He will find there criticism couched in terms which I do not propose to read. The 1970 report is available to the Minister also. I wish to quote from page 8 of that report. The  President  of the Commission stated: 
I also bear continually, in mind that the objects of the Act are far more likely to be achieved by genuine attempts in the first instance at least at conciliation rather than by too swift resort to sanctions in the form of fines and orders for payment of costs. 
As we look at the Bill that the Government has placed before us tonight we see the relevance, of that statement. The Government has never endeavoured to approach industrial relations fairly and squarely on the basis that wage and salary earners have the right to be heard without fear of penalty or punishment. The Government has never accepted these people as human beings without being forced to do so. The Government has had to bear the criticism that its inaction and its failure to recognise the organisations that represent these people have led to the industrial disputes that have occurred from time  to  time. 
The latest report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, dated 13th August 1971, again makes some very sdarp reference, does it not, to this point? I draw the attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service to pages 8 and 9 and particularly to paragraph 4 which extends from page 10 to page 11. In framing this legislation the Government has completely ignored the report of the  President  on what is desirable in proper industrial relations. What is the Government's approach? I think that I have described it as an approach which will not lead to good industrial relations. 
I understand that the area at which this Bill is aimed has some problems and, perhaps more serious than that, it has some fears. In using that term, I mean that it has some fears in relation to mechanisation, changed methods of work and so on and so forth. It has fears in relation to changes that are taking place in the Department generally and the likelihood of redundancy. In this respect, what has been done by the Government? What has been done by the Public Service Board? What has been done by the Department of Labour and National Service itself to set up a channel of communication by which there can be some form of discussion, to lay down some guidelines and to establish some working groups representative of all the parties concerned and having for their purpose avoidance of the attitude that is adopted so often in an atmosphere of industrial disputation when a matter can be prolonged by one or other or a number of parties in an effort to save face. This is the type of approach at which the Government should be looking. 
Should not the Government be concerned about the worry of workers in any Australian State - this is a little outside the ambit of the Bill before the. House - as illustrated by the fear in the Latrobe Valley that workers could become redundant almost overnight. These are the fears that exist, and I have raised them with the Minister for Labour and National Service on a number of occasions. I have pointed out that we would be in great trouble in this country if there should be a sudden move to increase mechanisation or automation. The answer of the Minister is that the Government has plans in this regard. Let the Government submit those plans properly and squarely, not necessarily first to the Parliament of the nation but to the people of the nation who will be affected by them. This should be done through the various bona fide organisations that exist to watch the interests of their members. 
I understand that considerable fear and concern is being expressed about a number of industrial conditions with which this Bill deals. Noise level is one. Industrial accidents are another. What is being done by the Government, the Minister and the Department of Labour and National Service to remove these areas of discontent which lead to industrial disputation? Has any test been made to ascertain whether noise level is not such that people become cranky and do only half a day's work instead of a full day's work? I understand that no such test has been carried out. Information sources are available to the Federal Government, even through some State governments, in this regard. Proper testing could be carried out to determine whether complaints from workers' representatives as to safety and unhealthy working conditions are founded on fact. The complaints may be found to be not true at all. This is the sort of thing that this Government ought to be doing in 1972. 
Incidentally, Australia's record of industrial disputations is far less than Government members have implied during this debate and in the last few weeks. It has been measured against the records of overseas countries. I am usually critical when 
Government members seek to compare unemployment figures on this basis, because the workers overseas are not our constituents. Our first concern should be for the people whom we represent. I conclude by referring to the Labor Party's policy on the 35-hour week. The matter could well be raised because it comes within the ambit of the Bill. Our policy is not on the basis that members on the Government side would like the general public to think. It is on the basis that in those industries, highly mechanised as they have become- 
I am talking about people in the Public Service. If the Government installed computers in these large Public Service departments we would see amazing results in a few years. The Minister shows his absolute ignorance of these matters. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourble the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and otherlack of livelihood in circumtsances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public inquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I move: Tha the ruling be dissented from. 
I rise to speak on clause 34. I am always suspicious of disciplinary measures under which punishment can be accorded to the innocent. Let us assume that under a number of these clauses a teacher or a person in the employment of the Service is suspended from duty because it is alleged he has committed an offence which is not fitting to his role. One can think of a number of such offences without being specific. I do not think there is any necessity for us to go any further in order to make that point clearer. Assuming that person fronts a civil court and is acquitted, would the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) agree that there is provision in this Bill for such acquittal to be ignored by the Commissioner when considering the reinstatement of that person? Would the Minister not agree that there are provisions here in a number of clauses under which the Commissioner could say, in effect: 1 do not give a damn what attitude the court takes. I do not agree with the acquittal. I believe the stories I have heard'. What is proposed to be done in situations such as that? This does not apply specifically to the teaching profession. 
Tonight 1 wish to raise in this House a matter of grave concern, lt is in regard to a matter that was widely reported in this morning's Sydney Morning Herald' I will quote from an article which appeared in that newspaper under the heading 'Dropped as Contributor'. It states: 

 Mr Killen, interviewed on the ABC television programme 'This Day Tonight', said last night he bad been dropped as a weekly contributor to 'The National Times'. 
He agreed with the interviewer that his Mess than outspoken support for the Prime Minister' was the reason. He had not been given, an explanation. 
The interviewer,  Mr Richard  Carlton, said later, so far. this year, the Fairfax organisation, has dismissed 3 of its Canberra correspondents, yourself included  Do you see any connection or do you see this as being purely coincidental?' 

 Mr Killen said: 'Look, I do not look for malevolence . . . 1 am concerned, and 1 am mightily concerned for the working journalist, that be is put in the position where unless he conforms meticulously to a policy, that his position is prejudiced'. 
The article goes on to make some reference to the fact that another reporter in the Press Gallery,  Mr Frank  Chamberlain, has been dismissed by the Fairfax group insofar as his activities on 2GB are concerned. But what is more important and what is more disgraceful is the fact that the Fairfax group, I understand from the media tonight, has issued a writ against the national broadcasting commission of this country. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has had a writ for S400,000 issued against it as a result of the 'This Day Tonight' programme last night. What is the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to this backdoor method of suppression? 
Suppression, yes. May I ask: Where is the fair-minded attitude of some of the Press barons of this country? What steps have been taken? Why is it that an organisation of the Fairfax group can take steps - by legal backdoor methods - to muzzle fair reporting of the proceedings of this House or just criticism of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. I can see no Other way to describe it than just that. Why does the Prime Minister not use his good offices and the considerable influence that he has on this particular group to reverse the decision that has been made? How long can we expect, how long can the Australian public expect, that the writ that hangs over the ABC's head will suppress information being given to the Australian public per medium of the national radio and television network? 
I would say this: The Prime Minister has a duty to this House- 
The Prime Minister, in addition, has a duty to the public. 
I desire to address a question  to the Prime  Minister. Does the Prime Minister recall announcing last month the appointment of 5 persons to the committee of inquiry to examine the role of the crafts as art forms? Can he advise which one of the five has had any professional knowledge or practical experience in the crafts? Will he appoint to the committee a person capable of assessing on a practical basis the needs and requirements of Australian crafts? Further, is there any truth in the report that the Government will no longer provide funds to encourage new works by Australian artists? 
I do not profess to have a complete grasp of the work of the colossus that we know as the Department of Customs and Excise. I do not think it could be described in any other way. There are probably few people in this House, and indeed I go so far as to say that there are probably very few people in the community at large, who are able to grasp the workings of the whole host of tariff regulations and schedules and the multiplicity of figures and so forth that confront any one who wishes to do research on any one item that is subject to a tariff. People in the motor vehicle industry in South Australia have been expressing very great concern in recent months about a particular matter that, in the light of the second reading speech of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  perhaps has some bearing on this debate. I see the Minister smiling, perhaps suggesting that I am getting a little wide of the scope of the Bill, but I can see no other way of introducing this matter into the House. I do not want to refer to the Minister's reply to me by telegram but I think he will agree that, in part at least, it is in conformity with the measure that is now before the House. 
The Bill before the House, in the words of the Minister, proposes some minor amendments. I feel that, in relation to the matters I am concerned about, they are minor and do not go far enough. A great deal of concern is being expressed that there are ways and means within the various tariffs and duties schedules for those engaged in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia today to make applicato an officer of the Department of Customs and Excise or to certain sections of the Department which have power to reduce the amount of import duty on a number of components that can be and have been manufactured in Australia, to the detriment of the employment of the people in the tooling rooms of one principal manufacturer or, to some extent, the 2 principal manufacturers in South Australia. Last September the number of tooling room personnel at one of these manufacturers was 1,000. It has now been considerably reduced and I think the figure would be nearer 400. The other manufacturer's personnel is down by a similar percentage. 
It is being said within the industry - this is the reason I raise this matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I would appreciate your permitting me to say this - that in relation to some component parts listed in certain schedules which I haveN mentioned to the Minister, the Customs officer has the power, on the say-so of an importer, to say that these particular items are unprocurable in Australia, without saying they are not manufactured in Australia, and the import duty of about 50 per cent is decreased to about 7i per cent. This whole matter should be investigated. I would appreciate the Minister's interest in this matter. He has in conversation indicated to me that he is prepared to consider this matter. I might add that the people who are investigating this position visited the Customs officials in South Australia and had great difficulty in acquiring the knowledge to enable them to research the matter to the point at which they could put forward a proper argument based on fact. Certainly it would appear that portions of .the documents to which they referred- 87.011, 87.021 and so forth - are relative to the motor vehicle industry, and for this reason they must be considered by those who are representing the employee interests in the motor vehicle industry as having some significance in relation to the job opportunities of many people in that industry. 
The amendments now before the House are not being opposed by honourable members on this side of the House. I suggest that the Minister should pay very close attention to this industry, especially when viewed against the background that smaller models of certain cars of Australian companies - if I may refer to them as 'Australian' companies - are to be produced in Australia. Can the tooling requirements of these manufacturers be met from Australian sources? If so, they ought to be met from Australian and local sources. I think you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the number of people employed in the support industries of the motor vehicle industry is almost comparable with, if not greater than, the number of people directly employed by the motor vehicle companies. It is most important that some attention be given to their interests. If it can be proved that the local manufacturer can produce component parts under the various schedules which I have mentioned to the Minister it would most certainly be appreciated if he would carry out some form of investigation into this matter. Some of these smaller companies are taken over by the giant Japanese companies and given some sort of a name to cover a particular situation. They can meet their manufacturer's requirements by importing an article and, by ways and means within the whole structure of customs and tariffs, are able to have that customs duty reduced from about 50 per cent to about 7 per cent. This sounds a bit ridiculous, but I think the Minister will agree that the telegraphed reply he sent me indicates that this could be more than a possibility. 
That is the main reason I have risen in this debate, but while I am on my feet I would like to say that some concern is being expressed in specific industries affected to a large degree by tariffs and customs schedules and measures generally. I am not saying that the Department is not doing its job; I am saying that it is almost a colossus. The procedure is very involved. It would be appreciated by those in the community, at both employer and employee level, if the greatest possible assistance could be given to them when they approach the Customs headquarters in the various States. I do not think it is good enough to say that the matter should be referred through a member of Parliament to Canberra in order to identify the items of tooling equipment, manufacturing equipment and manufacturing components used in the manufacture of vehicles concerned. The Minister will probably not agree with me on that. I would be very pleased if he were able to refute that and say that such measures are not necessary to gain the information that is required by a number of people within the community. I have here a manufacturers bulletin which instances the difficulty that may arise as a result of endeavouring to trace the coded numbers and so on which are involved. The whole matter of the involved procedures regarding customs duties and tariffs should be looked at much more closely and it should be debated at greater depth than it is able to be debated under the measure now before the House. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to raise the matter which was the subject of a ruling that you gave on the last night of the sitting prior to the recess of last week. It is in relation to a matter that I had raised here in a question. I said that I believed a writ had been issued by the Fairfax group against the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Subsequent to my addressing the House on this matter you called me to order on a couple of matters. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that I had misled this House. That has prompted me to get to my feet this afternoon and quote from page 1377 of Hansard where you,  Sir, in  calling me to order said this: 
Let me say this: If a writ has been issued the honourable member for Sturt will be out of order in mentioning this matter. I ask the honourable member for Sturt whether he is aware that a writ has been issued. 
I replied, of course, that I was not aware that a writ had been issued. The point I want to raise is that I take it from the remark you made and from the points of order that were taken by honourable members opposite that, had a writ been issued, you would have declared the matter to be sub judice and in fact there would have been no discussion in this chamber relative to that matter. This is the thing which concerns me a great deal. You will recall, although you were not in the Chair for the whole of the 10 minutes I was speaking during the adjournment debate, that I raised this matter because I felt that a writ was about to be issued - it has since , been issued - by a certain newspaper group to protect certain members of this House. That is my view and people can disagree with it if they wish. 
However, in the main I have risen to say that the matter concerned me from that time onwards. During the course of last week I was not able to carry out any research in regard to it but since I arrived in Canberra yesterday I have been able to do a little homework on this. I have found that apparently the attitude that has prevailed in this place over many years that a matter should not dare be mentioned in this place if a writ has been issued on it - there are several - is perhaps open to question in view of the fact that a number of very important rulings have been given in the New South Wales State legislature going back as far as 1932. 
I am not. 
I would appreciate that,  Mr Speaker,  and in addition to that would you be prepared to examine some of the decisions given in the New South Wales Parliament as recently as- 
I thank you for your indulgence*  Mr Speaker. 
If I were not committed to speak on another matter tonight I would dearly like to reply to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter).  Since I have been involved in the trade union movement, parliamentary affairs and trades and labour councils, I have never heard such a shocking speech and such shocking references as have been made by the Minister. 
I do not have to read my own Hansard; I do not happen to have one. On the last occasion on which I spoke on a motion for the adjournment I dealt with a matter of great concern to myself and, I am quite confident in saying, of great concern to possibly the majority of members of this House. I was referring, of course, to ways and means that are available - fortunately or unfortunately, depending on which way one looks at these things - and the attempts that are being made to stifle information that could flow from this House and to stifle certain members of the Press, certain members of the media, from what could be considered to be fair reporting. 

 Mr Speaker, I raised with you today a question in regard to what attitude would be taken in the House on matters in relation to which writs were issued. 1 have procured a copy of a paper,  Mr Speaker,  that you produced yourself and read to a conference in Asia. I will not proceed with it any further than that. 1 find it is most enlightening and I hope on another occasion to discuss that particular paper in this House in relation to the matter to which I referred last week. 
The matter I want to raise tonight is one that concerns me even more deeply than that. It revolves around a question directed to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  today firstly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and subsequently by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It is evident from the procedures in this House over the last 12 months that the Prime Minister has, on more than one occasion, grossly misled this House. I do not think I am being unparliamentary if I used that term. We had the case of the Prime Minister misleading this House in regard to the South African affair. We had the case of the Prime Minister misleading this House in regard to the Kibel incident. We had the case today in which I feel the Prime Minister is again misleading the House. I suggest to you,  Mr Speaker,  that if you acquaint yourself with the answer that was given today following the question by the Leader of the Opposition you will find that the Prime Minister did not in fact answer that question as it ought to have been answered. In his reply the Prime Minister said: 
I have not informed the ABC to this extent and I have given nobody any authority to make a statement on my behalf. What I said to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is correct. No complaint was lodged. 
That is not, to my way of thinking, conveying to the House that there was not a statement made on behalf of the Prime Minister in regard to this matter. It seems to me, as a result of what has been broadcast over the national media tonight, particularly by the ABC on the 'P.M.' programme, that there is more to come on this particular incident. I feel that certain information is being withheld by the Prime Minister from this House. I support my remarks by saying again to you,  Mr Speaker,  because your attention was interrupted some few moments ago by another member of the House, that in fact the Prime Minister has been known to mislead and is guilty of misleading this House. 
I was going to qualify that. 
I will withdraw the statement. I could, if I wanted to, refer to Hansard to show that the Prime Minister has stood in this chamber and has said that he had written letters and has had to admit finally that he had not written them. 
On the 'P.M.' programme tonight this matter was again raised. I quote from that programme as follows: 
It does seem though that there are many people -  in  the Press Gallery who feel that there are further questions to be asked about this matter and they will be asked. 
It is obvious that there has been around this House since this afternoon a great deal of discussion as to what has trans pired in regard to the Prime Minister's appearance on a programme yesterday evening. In fact, I am led to believe that  Mr Colhoun  said he had spoken on the telephone with one of the Prime Minister's secretaries, a  Mr Jon  Gaul. What procedures are available in this House to get the truth of the matter? Does one have to resort to having somebody brought to the Bar of this House to get to the truth of the matter? I represent some 54,000 people. Am I not entitled to expect that the truth should prevail in this chamber? I took the opportunity before rising in this debate to inform the Prime Minister's Department that I was going to rais: this matter this evening. I would have hoped that the Prime Minister would have been sitting in his usual place in this chamber. He is not here. Why is he not here? He knew I would be raising this question. Has he anything to hide? I suggest that, because of his absence in this place after my contacting his staff, he must have something to hide. If he has nothing to hide I would hope that he would get up and say so. 
I am one member of this House who is most certainly not satisfied with the reply the Prime Minister gave today. I am not satisfied, because there seems to be a chain of events following writs that have been issued recently by the Fairfax group-Hie week before last, to be correct - that there is not a pattern emerging in an insidious way outside the control of this House for curbing certain people not only in this place but also in the Press Gallery and elsewhere. It is undemocratic. If we on this side of the House were doing this type )f thing we would most certainly be almost accosted publicly by members on the Government benches, and rightly so, as one of my colleagues interjects. Where is this going to end? We have writs for the advantage of rich and wealthy people who want to curtail the activities of a member of this House whom I will not name but who is in the chamber at the moment. In addition they want to curb certain areas of the public media. 
I do not have to name him. The right honourable member for Higgins knows him better than I do. He should not even ask me. He knows. He was in his electorate the other day and condemned his own Government while he was in that State - or he condemned members of his Government. I want to know from the Prime Minister the truth of the matter - whether or not there has been any retrictions and whether or not he had any objection to the fact that he appeared on a programme last night and the Leader of the Opposition appeared after him on the same programme. These are the questions I want to ask. I will use every measure of this House to ensure that the truth is told in this place in relation to this matter, even if a member of the Prime Minister's staff has to be summoned before the Bar of the House. 
1 rise to oppose this motion in its entirety. I preface my remarks by saying that as far as I am concerned this is nothing more than a cheap political stunt and I agree completely with the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  In support of my contention 1 want to inform the House and those who perhaps are not aware of it - although 1 feel there would be few who would not be aware of it - that we have seen the system that is operating between the coalition parties in the Government under which it has been said that i Minister will not be opposed in his electorate by the other branch of the coalition. This situation now is being extended by the coalition parties to cover the acting Assistant Ministers. 
I raise tonight a question relative to my electorate concerning a shortage of textbooks necessary for student study. I have spoken to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to this matter and he quite arrogantly said to me: This is a State matter.' I informed the Minister's office and, indeed, the Government Whip that I intended to raise this matter tonight on the adjournment debate, but the honourable gentleman is not in the chamber. The fact is that because of the Government's policies which were outlined in the last 2 Budgets a very high rate of unemployment has been created. Many students who had contemplated entering the work force and taking jobs were unable to do so because of the Government's policy and, consequential upon that, they .were forced to return to school. 
As I understand the position it is the responsibility of the high schools in my electorate to make application directly to the Academy of Science in Canberra for the number of biology textbooks that they require. I want to acquaint the absent Minister with that fact and inform him that he is acting quite incorrectly when he brushes aside honourable members of this House who put to him matters which are relative to his Department and says: 'This is a State matter. Go and see Hudson or whoever might be responsible for these matters in the States which have a Labor government.' A number of students had to return to school because of the policy of this Government. But the schools had not anticipated at the time when they were required to place their orders for textbooks for the ensuing educational year - this would be approximately September or October last year - that these students would be returning to school. Schools have found that there is a great need for additional books in biology. In fact, the Norwood High School, which is in my electorate, has been forced to put in a number of different orders at different times. After making some inquiries at the Academy of Science today I learned that these textbooks will not be available to the Norwood High School for the whole of this school year. It is all right for the Government to talk in this place and make statements publicly about its attitude to The Little Red Schoolbook'. I am not much concerned about its attitude in relation to that book, but I am concerned that at this point of time classes have completed almost the first quarter of the school year without the textbooks which are necessary for the education of the students. I was amazed to learn today that in fact these students will go through the whole of the school year without these textbooks. Criticism for this state of affairs can be levelled only at this Government. 
I understand further from the Academy of Science that it has had these particular textbooks reprinted, but that these will meet only part of the requirements of 3 schools from which I requested information today. I learned that Gilles Plains high school, Modbury high school and Campbelltown high school will have thenorders met but the school I referred to, Norwood, will not. I raise this matter in the interests of the number of students - in the vicinity of 1,700  -  who attend the Norwood high school. I am not suggesting that all of them are studying biology during the course of this year but I am suggesting that something ought to be done by the absent Minister to correct the situation. I am not concerned about what it will cost if there has to be a special printing of these text books so that they will be available to this school. 
What is the Minister's thinking on this matter? Where is the Minister's sense of responsibility in regard to the students of this country? In what way can he excuse his attitude and the remarks he made to me in this chamber last night when I spoke to him about this matter? It is all very well for the Minister to stand up in this place wishfully hoping that somebody on this side of the House during the course of debates on education may say something that the Minister can latch onto about State aid. The Minister has not had that opportunity in recent weeks. Apparently that is the only interest he has in education. Let me take this one step further. The Minister frequently goes into a number of the States, particularly South Australia and Western Australia, does some type of tour, meets the State Education Ministers, meets the departmental heads, inspects 1 or 2 schools, says that everything is nice and lovely, but as he is jumping on an aircraft to fly out of the State he leaves behind a vicious Press statement. That has been the pattern followed by this Minister for a number of weeks now. It is deplorable that he should adopt this attitude and indulge in this type of criticism. The Minister could not care less about the educational matters which are raised time after time in this House. 
The Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. The fact is that he is concerned only about boundary riding within his own Party in an endeavour to get a somewhat higher position than he has at present. He is concerned only about going into some States and endeavouring to lay a blanket of criticism over the whole structure as he endeavoured to do in regard to State aid in South Australia. At that point he ceases to do any more. I do not know whether it will do a great deal of good to raise this matter in this debate on the motion to adjourn the House, but I will certainly make it well known throughout the length and breadth of my electorate that I did raise this matter tonight on behalf of students who do matter to me, who do matter to their parents, who ase attending school at this time under sufferance as a result of the shortsighted policy of this Government, and who are being sold short as far as their education is concerned because of  a  lack of responsibility, a lack of human understanding and a lack of effort by  a 
Minister who wants only to make cheap political propaganda out of his position in this place and when he is in the various States of the Commonwealth. 
I hope that the Minister picks up a copy of Hansard tomorrow and reads this speech. I want from the Minister next week a reply to what I have said tonight. 1 want an undertaking from him; I want some indication of understanding about this matter because I do not think it is my job to go into my electorate over the weekend, and endeavour to get a number of school teachers together and suggest to them that they confer with other school teachers in adjacent areas to ascertain whether some of these text books are available through normal channels. I point out that this is the only source of supply in the whole of the Commonwealth. These books are not available from bookshops. It is not my job to go into my electorite and say to the school teachers: 'Go across to the Division of Boothby and confer with the headmaster of the high school at Unley in the hope that some of the text books that you require at your school for the rest of the school year may be available'. This is about the only alternative means that I can think of, as forlorn and as unfruitful as it may be, to have these necessary text books made available to the schools which I have mentioned. I hope that the Minister will stir himself in some way to ensure that these books are made available. If the Minister comes to Adelaide, if he is buzzing in and out of the place as he has been doing, he can confront the headmasters and teachers of any number of schools in my electorate on a Monday or any other day he likes to come there to find out the facts of life and their requirements. 
I conclude by saying that I think the Minister knew that I was going to speak on this matter. He would have come into this House tonight if I were raising a question on law and order or something which applied to him. It seems to me that he is not prepared to come into this House tonight to face up to his responsibilities and the position he should take in the interests of students generally in the Commonwealth. All I say is that if the Minister does not come to Adelaide or if he does not do something about this matter I will most certainly raise it next week at any opportunity which the procedures of this House afford me. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor refuse a democratic ballot for representation on the Australian Honey Board while approving compulsory secret ballots for trade unions. 
Has the Commercial Apiarists' Association of South Australia produced to his Department evidence of loss of traditional markets and poor promotion of new markets by comparison with other exporting countries, failure to inform producers of the implications of legislation setting up the Board, price cutting in favour of buyers exercising monopoly or restrictive trade practices and having trading connections with Board members, and unclear annual financial reports. 
If so, will he now grant a poll of honey producers or provide documented rebuttal of this evidence. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - - 
Not one Government supporter has mentioned the Bill. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  talked about wages. Allow me, if I may, to put the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  straight. He said that the wharfies in Darwin - incidentally, I understand they voted for the honourable member - went on strike because there were not 2 brackets around a notation on a ship's derrick. I do not think they would have gone on strike if the 2 brackets did not appear on a ship's derrick. A safe working load is 5.5 tons or 10 tons but the honourable member would not understand the significance of this. The attention that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is paying to me at present indicates that he would not know either. But what does this safe working load mean? It means that where there is a reference to a 10-ton load on a ship's derrick and there is no bracket on it, you can work at that load providing the angle is right, the blocks, plates and all the runners and so forth are OK. But if brackets are around the notation, what happens under the regulations? The safe working load, for the benefit of the honourable member for the Northern Territory, is one half of 10 tons. 
It is not very technical; it is very simple. 
I agree,  Mr Speaker,  that the  Deputy Speaker  put the question but, my word, he was really quick that night. Tonight I want to raise a matter that is of some concern to members of this House. It arises from an article which is being circulated around both chambers and which has been published by the Australian Union of Students. The article is headed: 'Federal Minister Betrays Party. Secret National Group.' I was somewhat alarmed by this because I feel that in a matter such as this the person - a member of this House - who is named by this newspaper should have an opportunity to refute the allegations that are made in it. They are indeed very serious allegations. The secret national group referred to is known as the Peace with Freedom group. 
The article says that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has been associated with that group in a number of secret and clandestine meetings over a number of years, lt associates a Minister of the Government with an organisation which has been opposed to the present Government in the sense that it has laid down certain proposals at certain meetings that have been held from time to time and  which had for their purpose the limiting of the number of members of Parliament on the Government side who would be returned to this chamber, thus determining the majority the Government would have. Is it by coincidence that the paper reports that a determination was made that the Government, because of its defence policy, ought not to receive a huge mandate from the people in the 1969 election and should be held down to about a majority of 6 or 7? This is a deplorable state of affairs and one which should be cleared up. 
May I say as an aside that we on this side of the House have become used to being attacked for the associations we may or may not have or which we may or may not keep from time to time. The Minister who is referred to in this paper has not been far behind in kicking the Communist can and suggesting that honourable members on this side of the chamber are more closely associated with Communism than he or other honourable members are. The paper goes on to ask: 
Has Kevin Cairns fed confidential information to this group? 
How much influence does the ... Cairns group have on the Liberal Party and the Commonwealth Government? 
How can Kevin Cairns justify his membership of an organisation which seeks to promote a political party opposed to the party in which he holds a senior position; that seeks to reduce the majority of bis own party; that seeks to defeat fellow Ministers? 
How can Kevin Cairns justify his membership of an organisation which seeks to pressure and manipulate the Government in which he is a member? 
With whom do Kevin Cairns' loyalties lie - Peace with Freedom or the Government; the DLP or the Liberal Party? 
This situation cannot help but to embarrass the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon. 
He faces the most difficult election since the Liberal Country Party, Government won office in 1949. He must be aware of the danger to the Liberal Party and to the Government that Kevin Cairns and his association with the  . . group represents. 
The paper then goes on in some great detail about the internal political situation from 7th to 9th March 1970. It continues: 
Main Objectives of Political Actions during 1969. 
An increase in the defence vote. 
An undertaking against participation Sovietinspired pacts in Asia. 
Confirmation of the maintenance of the forward presence' in Malaysia-Singapore. 
The building of a naval base at Cockburn Sound. 
The maintenance of a 'naval presence' in the Indian Ocean. 
In order to secure these policy objectives, there were 5 desirable objectives in the October Federal election: 
Prevention of the ALP victory which would have destroyed the national service, the forward defence' policy, and the presence in Vietnam; 
Reduction of the Government's majority to a still comfortable 6-7 seats, to ensure that the Government could not claim any popular mandate for its defence or 'Russian' policies; 
The requisite 'tightness' in the DLP preferences to ensure (a) and (b); 
The retention of, or, if possible, increase in, the DLP's primary vote; 
the substitution of a new policy approach by a new Liberal Government. 
Four of these objectives came about. The. single negative factor was the . . . decline in the DLP vote. 
The article then implies that the group was associated with the move made last year by certain Press elements such as the Packer Press to remove the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton). 
I do not think that these statements ought to be made and ought to appear in the Parliamentary Library and be a subject for discussion around the House unless the person named in them is given an opportunity to deny the allgations. The article continues: 
The position in the ALP. 
Believe that Whitlam did notrise, so much as Gorton declined and pulled Whitlam up, therefore the pulling down of Whitlam by identification with extreme Left both possible and necessary. 

 Mr Speaker,I think you will agree that some of the tactics outlined in this paper run pretty much parallel with the tactics that have been employed in this House by various members of the Government. The article says: 
Actual control of the ALP can nolonger be explained mechanically as straight CP control - 
That must be Communist Party control; surely it could not mean Country Party- 
New parliamentarians are by and large neutralist teachers and professional men with some resemblance to Australia Party: They, have considerable influence on party through Whitlam's prestige. CP must temporarily go along with them. 
But CP, through unions, in position to control. 
In other words, what is being discussed here is whether or not this particular group has arrived at the situation of saying: 'Perhaps we have hammered the communist can too much. They have split. They have divided. There are some 5 or 6 different factions within the Communist Party. Now we have to look for something else to keep the ALP out of office. We have to look for some way of pressuring the Ministry. We have to look for some way of pressuring the Government, by the threat to its DLP preferences, to do certain things that are not, from the point of view of most thinking members of Parliament, the best in the national interest.' 
The article refers to manipulators. A number of people are named on the first page of this document, but I will not go into that aspect tonight. The article says that the manipulators see themselves as manipulators, in the true sense, of the Government by the threat to the granting of DLP preferences. In the last 12 months quite a number of issues have been raised in this chamber whereby, because of threats made by the DLP, action has been taken by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  down the line. Last week I referred to the appointment of assistant Ministers. I said that they were over-protected because by carrying the tag 'Assistant Minister' they would not be opposed at the election by Liberal Party or Country Party candidates.  Mr Speaker,  I see that the person who deputised for you in the chair that night - the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  - is nodding in acquiescence with what I have to say in that regard. So, I will listen with a great deal of interest to see whether the Minister for Housing makes some attempt either to justify the allegations which have been made in the paper from which I have read or to dissociate himself from them. If he does dissociate himself from them, I would think that he would be prepared to be questioned on a number of matters that have been raised in this publication which is being circulated around the chamber. 
During the course of the adjournment debate last night I raised a matter relative to statements contained in the publication National U'. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  rose in this House this morning and sought by way of personal explanation to extricate himself from some of the allegations that were made last night both in this House and in the Senate. During the course of his personal explanation this morning, the Minister for Housing said that if  Senator Murphy  had examined the article in the 'National U' correctly he would have seen that the reproduction is clearly that of some person's speech notes at the March 1970 meeting. I ask: Is this clear? Is it really clear even to the Minister? 
Let us contrast the statement of the Minister for Housing with the one attributed to  Mr Peter  Samuel in the Melbourne 'Sun' this morning. Honourable members will remember that  Mr Samuel  was the author of an article which was probably the first link in the chain of events which led to  Mr Gorton's  dismissal as Leader of the Liberal Party. According to the Melbourne 'Sun',  Mr Samuel  confirmed last night that the Minister had attended some meetings of the group. But  Mr Samuel  said that he could not recall whether  Mr Kevin  Cairns had attended the meeting which decided it would be desirable for the Government's majority to be reduced. I repeat that last clause: 'which decided it would be desirable for the Government's majority to be reduced!.  Mr Samuel  is then quoted as saying: 
As I remember it, the view of the group was that the Government might perform better if it was in a less secure position in the Parliament. 
He acknowledged that one of the members of the group was  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, whose vital involvement with the Democratic Labor Party is undoubted. Does the Minister then believe that the Government's views on defence and internal security are substantially similar to. those of  Mr Santamaria  and the DLP? Does he, for example, agree with the recently expressed view of the  Deputy  Leader of the DLP in the Senate that the Australian troops should be sent back to Vietnam - a view which his own Government does not support? It is this very statement of substantial agreement with men such as  Mr Santamaria  that is the crux of this question. Can the Minister continue to identify himself so closely with the views of this small party and remain a loyal member of his own Government at all times? Is it that he recognises only too well, as he acknowledged this morning, that he holds a very marginal seat and prefers to play both sides of the Right in a desperate endeavour to retain his own seat in the Parliament? 
In 2 different parts of the 'Sun' report  Mr Samuel,  who says he was at the meeting, establishes that the group expressed a common view on this question. On the other hand the Minister, who says he was not at the meeting, tries to pass off the evidence for the expression of this common view as being merely some person's speech notes. Assuming that we accept the Minister's avowal of innocence in any plot to weaken the Government and strengthen the DLP, surely he must reconsider his association with the Peace with Freedom group in the light of  Mr Samuel's  remarks. Surely he must immediately end this association. If he does not do so, I can only conclude that he is prepared to continue the association with a group which is dedicated to the same cause of mischief within his own Party and I would be forced to suspect that he was misleading the House in his brushing aside of one of the key reproductions in the 'National TJ'. I would not be surprised if he did not cut his connection with the group, no matter what he learned of its activities. This is because he has already told us this morning that its members were concerned principally with matters of Australian defence and internal security and had personal policies on these matters substantially similar to those of the Government. 
I recall having said in this House last night that continually Government supporters accuse honourable members on this side of the House of guilt by association. They continuously accuse Opposition members of expressing in this House a viewpoint which is not necessarily the viewpoint of the Opposition collectively or individually. The assertion is made so often that we are under some form of outside control. 
It has been said from the other side of the House that it is true. So as far as I am concerned, and I speak for my colleagues, that is not so, but let one of the members on the Government side stand in this place tonight and say that there are not in fact Ministers of the Crown occupying positions in this Federal Parliament who are used as puppets by outside organisations - by faceless and baseless men. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does his Government oppose any further testing of atomic bombs in the Pacific region? Is he aware of reports which indicate that France will test a nuclear bomb during June this year? Will the Minister, in the interests of the health and safety of Australians and other peoples in the Pacific  area, show some real act of opposition to the French test firstly by denying port facilities to all French vessels and secondly, by refusing landing rights to the French ~ Concorde on its proposed visit next month? Further would the Minister welcome support from the public and trade unions to bring about the desired nontesting of bombs in the Pacific area? 
Mi N.  H.  BOWEN-I have had this matter under very careful consideration and I do not think I will adopt either of the 3 possible courses of action which the honourable gentleman has invited me to take. However, I should say to the House that we are deeply concerned at the prospect of tests taking place in the atmosphere. As the honourable member for Sturt will know, Australia is a party to the ban on nuclear testing which was adopted in 1963 and indeed, we have expressed our concern and protested officially to the French Government within the last month at the prospect of further tests taking place in the Pacific. In addition, we are conferring with our South Pacific neighbours with whom we have become so closely associated in the South Pacific forum, as  to  the possibility of some concerted action by us as a group. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Jess)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.3 a.m. (Thursday) 
Thanks for leaving me 2 minutes in which to speak. I want to make this point very clearly: Whilst the honourable member referred to section 39a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in criticising the Bill now before the House for what is not in it, the fact is that in his attempt to make a great show of claiming that we were denying to persons under 21 years of age the right to stand as candidates for election to the Federal Parliament, be did not refer to the fact that under section 39a a serviceman under 21 years of age is not given the right to stand as a candidate for election to the Federal Parliament. But I will not waste any more of my time on that. 
Section 39b of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is important in considering this matter, and I would have thought that the young, learned lawyer who preceded me would have referred to it. It has some direct bearing on this matter because it opens up the way. The Commonwealth Electoral Act, as amended in 1961, authorises the enrolment in the Commonwealth electoral rolls, in the appropriate residential divisions, of any person to whom section 41 of the Constitution applies. It is not good enough, as Askin in New South Wales says, that his Government cannot accede to the request to grant a vote to 18-year olds or to introduce any form of legislation in this regard because of section 39b of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I was very interested to hear the speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He at least made some endeavour to point out to his more reluctant colleagues that perhaps there is some room for some area of discussion between the trade unions on the one hand and the Government on the other. The honourable member spoke about sanctions that have been imposed from time to time. I can understand his feeling on this matter because he is suffering the effect of the imposition of a sanction by his leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Fairfax Press. I can see that the honourable member is smiling and nodding in agreement with what I have said. 
It never ceases to amaze me how this Government has been able to get away with blatant misuse of the powers conferred upon it merely by being elected to govern although it did not have the majority of the votes cast by the electors, lt has never ceased to amaze me that this Government is able to be the voice of this Parliament through the support of some 22 Australian Country Party members who received less than 8 per cent of the total vote. Therefore I do not think that the Government's nose is very clean in respect of the legislation before the House because of the percentages I have referred to. 
This Government has a long history of legislation aimed entirely at repressing the trade union movement. This Government has never introduced a piece of legislation which has been for the specific purpose - and 1 direct this remark to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - of overcoming the areas that cause industrial disputes. There is nobody at Federal or State level in the Australian Country Party or the Liberal Party - or anybody during the United Australia Party days for that matter - who has ever done anything other than condemn an increase of wages let alone support an application for an increase or a case for better conditions for workers. If I am wrong I would like one of the honourable members opposite yet to speak, or the Minister in his reply, to inform me of just that fact 
I directed a question to the Prime Minister in this House last year in regard to the ever-increasing gap between some classifications of tradesmen and the low wage earner. Anyone interested in his reply need only refer to the Hansard of last October to obtain it. This Government is not concerned with people so far as industrial legislation is concerned. It is not concerned with legislating on behalf of workers. Can the Minister inform the House when his Government will follow the lead of the Luxembourg and Belgian governments which enact legislation for the purpose of extending annual leave and even granting loadings on annual leave? This fetches me to the point that where there is such a loading on annual leave enjoyed by industrial organisations in this country it has been gained from employers, where there has been government representation, only by taking strike action. Strike action has only been used after protracted discussions with the workers' respective employers. The Government here - and I have said this before - has never intervened to end a dispute. It has sat back, taking a hypocritical attitude as it did in the recent La Trobe Valley dispute with  Chairman  Henry, or perhaps I should describe him as the Premier of Victoria, wishing the strike to go on and, of course, the Prime Minister goading and abetting him in that regard. The Prime Minister slipped in last night on the grouter to have a little bit to say on this Bill. Over the years he has held himself out to be the architect of industrial legislation in this place, as he once administered the portfolio of Labour and National Service. In the 1965 legislation, directed against the waterside workers, he was going to be the cure-all and end-all, as he said in a speech here last night. What a lot of damn rot! 
Let us examine what happened after the 1965 legislation the purpose of which was the same as that which the Government must be accused of pursuing today - the enacting of legislation in the hope that the trade unions would over-react and the Government would win an election on that issue. Shortly after the legislation was passed in this House the waterfront unions proceeded with a system of discussion with employers which resulted in collective bargaining. Round table conferences were held. Speaking as a trade union officer of some years' experience, on most occasions on which T had to go to employers' doors it was to prevent a dispute rather than to say that we were going to pull one on. I would go so far as to say that there are still some honest employers in the country who would like to kick the Government's interfering attitude out of their consulting rooms and offices. Many of them are prepared to do this. But the Minister for Labour and National Service and previous Ministers for Labour and National Service have gone along to various levels of employer organisations to persuade them not to do this because they were fearful that the unions might come to some form of agreement with the employers and that the Government would lose another stick to use in an election campaign. 
Last night the Prime Minister made a great boast of the 1965 legislation. He has forgotten that the vicious type of legislation that was passed in this place in 1965 was never used. The Prime Minister has forgotten the unscrupulous depths to which he went in those days in an endeavour to use that legislation. It so happens that I was the person that he approached in an attempt to persuade my organisation - a federal organisation - to break away on a State basis so that he could accord that particular State the protection of the Bill. He had a forlorn hope that he was talking to a fool. He has probably forgotten that. I can recall when he was the Minister and when he so mishandled things that the Department almost had to tell him to keep quiet when they were attempting to settle industrial disputes. So much for the Prime Minister. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service might listen to what I have to say next. It might take the chuckle off his face. On 2nd March 1972 he delivered a Press statement and put on it that it was for immediate release. He was addressing the Central Industrial Secretariat of the Australian Council of Employers Federation. What did he say to that organisation? The Minister should ask his departmental officers to give him a copy of the speech so he can follow it with me. I am going to show him today what a complete aboutface he made in a few days because of an unscrupulous Prime Minister leading an unscrupulous party which decided to be unscrupulous and force- 
 A number of members from both sides of the chamber have spoken during the course of the debate at the Committee stage. On one occasion the Minister dragged himself slowly to his feet in some lamentable manner and endeavoured to answer the questions that had been asked of him. 
Have you finished? I have not started yet. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I suggest that the honourable member direct 'his remarks to clauses 8 to 11 of the Bill. 
You pull the Minister up for interjecting 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - I am asking the honourable member to relate his remarks to clauses 8 to 1 1 which are under discussion. 
I will do that. Proposed new sub-section (Ia.) (b) of section 7 contains the phrase 'has had experience at a high level'. Did the Minister explain that? Does he mean a dogman in the building industry or the  chairman  of directors of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd? There is a difference, but the Minister has not spelt out to the Committee what this means. Can he now give an interpretation of proposed new sub-section (a.) (b) of section 7 in the Bill which he has the responsibility to ensure is passed by the Committee. I ask him what is meant by the words 'has had experience at a high level in industry'. Considering those 2 extreme examples which I gave of a dogman in the building industry or a fellow on the board of directors of BHP, should not the Minister include another clause in the Bill to prohibit the appointment of a person who has been a captain of industry - to use the phrase of the honourable member for ^Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  - or a  chairman  of a board of directors who has a vested interest in an industry? And we have had some of that in the past. 
Surely in this enlightened age there ought to be in this Bill a clause which specifies the people in the community who can be appointed  Deputy President  and  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. For argument's sake, the person presiding over matters which deal with the vehicle building union could have been the  chairman  or on the board of directors of Chrysler Australia Ltd, General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd or some other company. If I may deviate for a second or two - and I am glad to see that the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  is looking at me in an intelligent way - I ask: Whom did the Government appoint to the Australian Wool Commission? It appointed Vines from Dalgety Australia Ltd. Under questioning at the Committee stage when we were discussing the legislation concerning the wool industry, the Government did not indicate that he was the person whom it would appoint. The same thing could happen under this measure. Where do the workers and the industrial unions get off with that type of representation? The Government is weak; it is falling down on its job; it is protecting the people who pay it to protect them and add to its lousy fighting fund. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I must ask the honourable member to come back to the clauses under discussion. 
I can see that you do not like my remarks. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am asking the honourable member to come back to the clauses under discussion. 
I have no apology for saying that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am asking the honourable member to come back to the clauses before the Committee. 
Every minute I am on my feet in this place I am told to direct my remarks to the Chair. This is said to me more times than it is said to any other 10 members in this place. If you resent me so much, why do you not take some stronger action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order ! If the honourable member is not prepared to relate his remarks to the clauses under discussion I will have to ask him to resume his seat. 
I was referring to proposed new sub-section (1a.) (b) of section 7. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member to direct his remarks to the Chair, not to honourable members on the Government side of the chamber. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, in directing my remarks to the Chair, may I ask the Chair to listen to what I am directing to it? I could continue for 10 minutes like this, but it would be rather silly. Once again I ask the Minister to inform me and the Committee what is meant by the words experience and standing in the Australian community' in proposed new sub-section (1a.) of section 7. What does that mean? If the Minister does not want to do that, well and good; one can draw his own conclusion from the Minister's silence. But this is a badly worded, badly phrased and badly drafted Bill. No doubt the part to which I am referring, as distinct from the whole Bill, was hastily drafted. The Bill is shockingly drafted, as will be demonstrated as we deal with other clauses of the Bill.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I may have sounded to you to be asking a somewhat frivolous question when I asked what was meant by the words 'has had experience at a high level in industry'. I want some clarity of that, if I can get it. I am quite sure that there will he further opposition to this clause if it is in fact said that there will be appointed to the Commission somebody who has been on various boards of directors and what have you which have slammed the door in the face of the trade unions over the years. Let the Minister, after having consulted his departmental officials in the corner of this chamber for the umpteenth time, return to the table and tell us what is meant by this loosely worded document that he is attempting to pass through this chamber. Unfortunately he has now left the chamber and has delegated his authority in his absence to the Assistant Minister assisting him. He, being a farmer, may know more about industrial matters than does the Minister who, incidentally, has just returned. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service - and I note that he is back in the chamber - said in his second reading speech: 
The House will note that the Bill contains provision for an increase in the salaries for the commissioners. I have no doubt that this is provision will be supported by all members of this House as a warranted recognition of the valuable service given to the community by the holders of that office. 
The Minister must have been fooling himself if he thought that all members of the House would clap their hands with glee and say: 'For they are jolly good fellows; give them back pay of 2 grand and a rise of $84 a week'. The Minister issued a Press statement on the 5th of this month applauding the decision of these gentlemen that the wage of $46 a week would go up by a lousy, miserable $4.50. 
No,  Sir. On  the latest figures the poverty line stands at $54-odd. 
If the Minister tonight saw the television programmes dealing with poverty in this country, he would not be applauding the decision of the bench. He would not be giving the commissioners a swift handback of $2,000 plus, which amounts to a 37 per cent increase. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the clause. 
This is what the Bill provides. This is what I am talking about. I am referring to that particular section which covers increases- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member will not shout down the Chair when the Chair is addressing him. 
I am addressing the Committee. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will remain silent for a moment. I am asking the honourable member to relate his remarks to clause 12 of the Bill which deals with salaries and allowances of commissioners. I call the honourable member for Sturt. 
I wish,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you would listen in the morning to the Hansard tape of these proceedings and relate what I have said to what you have just said to me. It is getting almost intolerable. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I point out to the honourable member that he is getting pretty close to reflecting on the Chair. I warn him that I will not tolerate a reflection on the Chair. 
Let him go on. In speaking to this Bill,  Mr Deputy Chairman- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will withdraw that reflection on the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I am asking the honourable member to withdraw that reflection on the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Sturt. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  in speaking to the Bill and in speaking to that particular clause - I repeat,  Sir, in  speaking to that particular clause - it is an intolerable situation when the words written in the clause spell out by way of percentages,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  a 37i per cent increase for people who do not need it and who are not entitled to it on the basis of the community standard that this Government has forced upon wage and salary earners in this country.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I say this to you: The Minister talks of wage inflation. Can I be convinced,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that the $2,000 back pay that these people are to receive, will go into circulation to the benefit of the economy of this country? Do not push that down my neck because they will not spend a penny. The only way,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that this money will be returned to circulation is when they die and it is given back to the Commonwealth by way of death duties. I can see no other way in which this can be done. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I will comply with your ruling that I must address the Chair. It appears that every other word must be the  Chairman.  However,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I make the observation that not long ago this Committee was addressed for 10 minutes by another honourable member and not once did that honourable member mention the  Chairman.  I just make that casual observation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member does not need to mention the  Chairman  as long as he directs his remarks through the Chair. That is the point. 
What else do I have to do? Oh brother! There is,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  reflected in this clause the thoughts and the feelings of a government so long in office that it represents the capitalist society, nothing else, and it sees fit to criticise people by placing this clause in this Bill. Honourable members on this side of the House have said quite bluntly that this Bill is a discriminating Bill. It discriminates between those who have to work for a living and those who live off others. The people who are referred to in the clause we are discussing could not stand and watch the fellow in the automotive industry - whom I would describe as being nothing more than industrial fodder,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  when one considers the amount of take home pay he receives in a week - screwing on the same kind of nut and doing up the same kind of bolt for 4 hours a day, let alone do it for 8 hours a day for the pittance which is given to him. 
I am sorry that I have to stand here during the Committee stage of the Bill,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and endeavour to point this out to the Government and to a Minister who thinks nothing of grabbing almost $40,000 a year of the taxpayers' money and who wants to force through a Bill of this nature the purpose of which is to deny a proper and just salary to the majority members of the community. 
They receive tax free allowances. I have not yet mentioned judges, who receive a higher salary than does the Minister. Just where are we going as a responsible Parliament when we see people applauding the decisions of the commissioners and judges and the court generally and applauding the decision that limits a wage increase to $2 a week and which allows a maximum wage to go only to a figure that is still below the poverty line? In the last 48 hours a Liberal Party Minister in the Victorian Parliament - in the State from which the Minister comes - has set that figure at $54. My opinion,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  is that the Government ought to be condemned forever and a day on this particular clause. Would you allow me to transgress for a second,  Mr Deputy  Chairman? This afternoon we heard that millions of dollars were to be given away on educational matters because the Prime Minister knows that otherwise his popularity rating will be down further tomorrow. That is why the announcement was made hurriedly in this chamber today. 
There is nothing in this particular clause or in any measure that has been passed since I became a member of this Parliament that has not been done because of political expediency or that has not been done to buy a vote and buy the electorate, because most of the electorate has been condemned over at least the last 3 years.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I would like the Minister to stand in this chamber and tell us how he can say: 'To hell with the worker. He is not getting any sort of an increase at all beyond $2'. I would like him to stand in this place and justify the increase in excess of 37 per cent which people who are receiving $12,000 a year are going to be given, to bring them up to $16,000, plus back pay, plus free transport and what have you. You stand in this chamber,  Mr Minister,  and justify that 37 per cent increase and in doing so try to tell the trade union leaders and everybody else that they do not have a damned right to go into a court and argue a case this year, in conformity with the lousy Press statement which you gave out only a few days ago. You are not worth your salt if you are not prepared to do that at this point of time. 
That progress be reported. 
In view of the fact that the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  rose and attempted to answer what has been said about this matter, I would like to say something which has some relationship to the clause now under discussion. The Government proposes to give a salary handout of something like, or just in excess of, a quarter of a million dollars - mark that figure - to 54 or 57 tall poppies of the Public Service. This is a disgrace. It does not take into consideration the standards of a very vast majority of the wage and salary earners in this country. 
The Liberal Party recently put out something about arbitration, political strikes, the protection of the arbitration system and what have you. This has some relevance to this matter. The heading on one of the articles sent to me was 'Arbitration - the employee and the economy'. How much was said, how much could be said by a responsible government, and how much ought to be said by an honest government with any sense of responsibility about the standards in the community at large, under the heading Arbitration - the employee and the economy'? The Government could really have produced quite a substantial paper under that heading. Let us hear what was said under the heading 'Arbitration - the employee and the economy'. It is quite amazing really that this is all that was said: 
Overfull employment can easily change to under employment and recession. The arbitration system has proven its worth over the years in its ability to remain flexible so that workers could enjoy their fair share of prosperity and good times, and to protect them from unfair treatment in bad times. 
That is all that was said about it. This was a statement coming from the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party, the machine down the road, built no doubt by contributions from very wealthy industrialists. The Minister for Labour and National Service, the Assistant Minister assisting him, and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is now sitting at the table, know damn well that the employees have been getting less and less as their share of what ought to be their just rewards from what they give to industry. 
I return again to the automotive industry which keeps people on a pittance that can be regarded as a low wage and a low level while overseas owners of that particular industry send $100m a year out of this country. The Government does nothing at all about that. So is it any wonder that we on this side of the chamber are going to continue to debate this particular clause and continue to criticise the Government for its double standards or no standards? Is it any wonder that we are going to accuse the Government of taking the average wage and salary earners in this country nowhere and giving them nothing? As long as the Minister and the Assistant Minister continue to get to their feet and, in some fashion, attempt to answer the criticisms or the questions put by honourable members on this side of the House, we will continue to rise and point out where they have failed dismally in their responsibility to the community at large. 
Let me quote briefly from the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party of Australia on the subject of sanctions and the arbitration system. They say: 
But we do believe that everyone should be equal before the law. 
This is when they are dealing with sanctions, but when it comes to the wherewithal to live that determines the standard of living in a worker's home and the type of education his children will receive, they do not give a damn about equality. But if it comes to sanctions they say: They shall be equal before the law'. Let the Government apply that principle in another direction. Let it apply that principle to the clause now before the Committee. The Government will not do it and has no intention of doing it. 
Recently, because of the discrimination that exists in the clause we are discussing, the Minister saw fit to criticise the Waterside Workers Federation which had come to some form of agreement with its employers outside the court. He was bitterly critical of this and had some mild criticism of the shipowners for agreeing to certain increases in that field. How do they win? How does a trade union satisfy the whims of the Minister, of the Prime Minister and of the Government? They do the wrong thing if they go into court and they do the wrong thing if they stay out of court and get an increase. What the hell does the Government expect them to do? Does it expect them to mark time while the Government puts up the salaries for commissioners and says that nobody else can get the increase, while the Government stands idly by and sees people in an industry receive a pittance which it likes to refer to as a minimum wage, and while their employers, their bosses, the owners of industry send millions and millions of dollars away every year? The Government never criticises them. It gives them nothing but praise. But let the POW, the poor old worker, stand up on his hind legs after negotiating, talking and arguing before the court for a decent living, and the Government starts talking in this place about taking action in the public interest. I ask the Government who it thinks the trade unionists and their families are? Are they not members of the public? I pose that question to the Government Of course they are members of the public, but because they may have something to do with a wage increase the Government wants to disregard them as members of the public. It criticises the worker more for asking for$6 than it criticises the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for a profit of 15 per cent or 22 per cent in12 months. Government members get up on their high horse and ask how the Opposition dares to criticise BHP. They ask: Was it not entitled to put up the price of its product? Was it not entitled to make a profit measured in terms of percentages far beyond what was given in the caselast week? Government members have said in this House that they would restrict wages, by way of inference and almost by way of direction to those who are supposed to look at the claims before them. Last night we saw a Minister stand in this House thumping the dispatch box and saying what a great improvement there had been in the rural industries. I ask Government members to go to the Library and see what has been said in the newspapers in the last 24 hours about how earnings have dropped in the rural industries. Yet we hear this type of claptrap from Ministers in this place such as we heard last night when a Minister was thumping the dispatch box about nothing. Where is the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  now? He has blown through again. I will have to direct my remarks to the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  who is at the table. In the Minister's second reading speech he said that no-one in the House would object to people receiving a 37½ per cent increase. What a lot of clap. I repeat that the fact is this: We will not agree to it. The Government stands damned and condemned in the light of what has been shown on channel 2 tonight in regard to poverty and in the light of what the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - where has he gone; he was here a minute ago - had to say in this place yesterday in regard to what his Government proposed to do by setting up an inquiry. There is a need for the Government to look at the whole wage structure in Australia taking into consideration the standards in Australia as they apply to those who have not sufficient to maintain a decent, proper standard in this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That clause 12 be agreed to. 
 I also want to oppose proposed new section 27. I do so because of the way in which it is worded. I have risen in this debate lo agree with and support the remarks made by honourable members on this side. As the proposed new section is worded no excuse can be put forward by a person who is required to attend before any proceedings that are held and who does not attend. I oppose this proposed new section because I recall an occasion in 1965 or 1964 when there was a dispute in the vehicle building industry. Proceedings were held in a court in Adelaide and at that time one prominent trade union official from one of the metal unions was very ill. He did not live long after his appearance before the court. His appearance in court was one of the most disgraceful things I had ever seen. He was forced into the witness box and the learned gentleman on the bench put this unfortunate fellow through cross-examination in an attempt to get him to say that he was under a direction of his Federal body in the eastern States. I recall a particular person on the bench. He was from a western State and he kept sneering and saying 'The wise men of the east'. I thought of the term 'The mugs from the west'. Those honourable members who have been involved in industrial matters will get the meaning of what I have just said and why I used that term. I make no apology for using it. I have not mentioned the person's name. You are not permitted to mention his name in this place. I have used that term and if anybody can identify the person in question, that is his prerogative. 
There is no provision in this Bill for a person holding a position in an industrial organisation and who is sick to say 'I want somebody to represent me on this occasion' because the attitude adopted by the gentlemen on the bench is one of: 'I want you here and this is the place to which you will come, and you will  be  cross-examined'. I ask the Minister to check out what 1 have had to say in regard to this case which involved the Vehicle Builders Union although it did not involve a Vehicle Builders Union official. The dispute involved an organisation whose members saw fit to support it. They supported it because many of their members were out of work as a result of the claim against the employers in the vehicle building industry. It was the most shameful thing I have ever experienced. How would the Minister like his friends to be forced to submit to this type of cross-examination with all the bitterness that at times prevails in industrial disputes that have gone on for some 2 weeks or 3 weeks. 
I would also like the Minister to define much better the provisions of the proposed new section 27. I can understand these provisions where unions are directly involved or organisations are directly involved but for a penalty of this sort to be hanging over the heads of people who are more or less innocent bystanders in a dispute is more than the average person should be called upon to bear and is more than the average person in the community would tolerate if he knew the full facts of the case and the implications of the subject. I ask the Minister to give every consideration to re-writing paragraph (5.) of proposed new section 27 and also some of the other provisions referred to by honourable members on this side of the House. 
These proposed new sections now under discussion, irrespective of what Government supporters say, are nothing more than wage freeze provisions. The Minister is on record as having recently referred to women in the work force as being insignificant. He knows as well as his Government knows that there is going to be a greater percentage of females employed in future. He knows that if anybody wants to attain an acceptable standard of living and a decent quality of life, disregarding the monetary factor for the moment and the number of persons in a family who have become earners or working units, the only way in which young people in a community can afford to overcome the 1,000 per cent increase in the cost of land in many of our cities and suburbs throughout the nation is for both of them to contract to work. 
Let us deal with the term 'the public interest'. I have heard no cry from this Government nor has anybody else in the Parliament against the 22 per cent price increase by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for its steel products in just 12 short months. If this Government wants to define the public interest' so far as industrial disputes are concerned and so far as wages are concerned, if it wants a plain honest definition and not one from the group of eggheads to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred earlier, just assess the fact that wage and salary earners and their dependants in this country represent in excess of 90 per cent of the people. Is that not right? We heard the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  say that you should not grant a wage increase to this sector, or to bring it down to a lesser number, the people employed in the automotive industry, numbering about 30,000 and those employed in support industries again numbering about 30,000, because overall they are getting too much. But when it comes to 57 tall poppies in the Public Service and they are given $250,000 to share, that is all right. That is in the public interest says the honourable member for Denison. He is evidently of the opinion that he will get knocked off at the next election, to use his own term, when he will want to go back as an employee of the University of Tasmania. He wants to protect his own personal interest. That is the way that a lot of people would look at it in their own areas. What is 'the public interest' in an exercise like this? No doubt it is some after-thought of the Government. 
The proposed new sections under discussion constitute a direct wage freeze - they will limit wages and conditions of work. If we take the Commonwealth as being the protectors of the public interest, God help the public because in this Bill there is mention of annual leave and long service leave. The Commonwealth Government has not seen fit to increase annual leave for its employees - and I can see the honourable member for Moreton anticipating what I am going to say - since Federation or in 72 years. So if anybody considers that a member of the public can expect to get some benefit from this Government he had better think again. 
I want to say something about the rights of people to negotiate and the rights of people to agree. I want to draw attention to statements made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in regard to waterside workers' agreement. I should like the honourable member to tell me where, as a result of wage increases, freight rates have increased. I should like him to relate those to the tremendous freight increases that have occurred when there has been no movement in the wage sector at all, either at sea or ashore, and little movement in costs for wharfage and so on. He might be able to convince me but I do not think he will. He will see that freight increases do not necessarily follow wage increases. If production is the key factor miners ought to be getting 5 times their present wages on the production figures given to us by the honourable member for Cunningham today. If there are only one-fifth the number of miners employed in coal mines today as compared with 15 or 20 years ago, and they are producing 10 times as much coal, assessing it on the basis of productivity why should they not receive more pay? The Government does not want that. 
Government supporters, especially legal eagles, have never supported wage increases or improvements in conditions. They merely carry out their function by voting for the matter before the House to restrict those benefits. If the Minister were to cast his mind back to the system that operated in relation to the gigantic undertaking just south of the Australian Capital Territory, the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme, he would recall that that scheme existed for the whole of its life on the basis of negotiation and not necessarily on the basis that the parties were directed to accept the decision of a panel of judges who are quite removed from the industrial scene and have no contact with it whatever. 
I should like the Minister to tell us when the Pull Bench of the Commission took it upon itself to have a really close look at what is happening in industry today. I should like the Commission to look at the broad spectrum of industry and at the provision of the Bill that says it will have direct control over the remuneration of wage and salary earners in this country. Will the judges take into consideration reports such as we have seen in the past 48 hours from the University of Melbourne in regard to poverty in Australia as it affects wage earners in the community and people who live below the poverty line? Will the judges of this country inspect those conditions before arriving at a decision that might be fair and in the public interest? Of course not, and the Minister knows they will not. So, why is this legislation before the House? ls it to appease a minority party in the Senate? ls it to buy preference votes? 
I might ask: Is it in the public interest for us to have the conflict we have seen in the past 48 hours between the coalition parties - the Country Party and the Liberal Party - before a particular report on the wool industry becomes available? ls this not merely petty party politics? Government supporters are concerned only that they should be re-elected every 3 years. They do not give a damn about proper and responsible government. Is it in the public interest that during the recess uranium deposits to our north will be signed away to foreign interests? Do Government supporters think that someone should ask these questions and be entitled to a proper answer? Of course not. It does not come within the Government's realm of narrow, overshadowed party politics. Is it in the public interest that in the past 2 days 5 Ministers have attacked a decision of one of the members of the front bench? Is the Government concerned about that? Was it in the public interest that the Government squandered $500m on the Fill aeroplanes? Has anyone asked that question? 
Is it in the public interest that young married men who have been forced into the Army must live in the fringe areas of various cities because adequate and proper housing is not provided for them? All the issues which the Government, with its narrow political point of view, believes to be in the public interest are contained, though hidden, in the clauses of this Bill which will give extremely wide powers to a group of people whom 1 consider have never been in touch with the public other than on the university campus in their younger days when they were studying law. I oppo.se the Bill on that basis. I do not think it is reasonable or necessary. If time would permit 1 would quote to the Minister many of the statements he has made to his own political party and coming from his own secretariat in the past few weeks and just prior to Christmas. It would not make any difference whether this Bill is carried or not. I have no doubt it will be because it will be merely a numbers game. 
Although I have spoken on this matter there is still one matter which concerns me and which I would like the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to spell out. Both last week and today we have covered a broad area of industrial relations as the Government sees them. In examining the proposed new sections now before the Committee one finds such references as the national economy and the public interest, with which 1 dealt to some extent before the suspension of the sitting. Mention also has been made of standard hours and conditions and these are subjects which appear in some of the proposed new sections under discussion. I would like to refer to the expressed desire of the Government to hand over to the Commission the agreements that are made between consenting parties on an industrial basis concerning unions and employers on the one hand or a group of unions and a group of employers on the other. The Minister no doubt would be aware of this because of his direct reference to it when answering questions in this House in the last 2 weeks. I refer to the agreement between certain waterfront unions and shipowners. I want to refer to provisions in that agreement such as retiring and pension benefits. I suppose that one can relate this to some other industrial organisations which have agreements in regard to pension schemes at both State and semigovernment levels. 
As I read the proposed new sections under discussion there is nothing that does not indicate that the Government per medium of the Bench cannot have these conditions interfered with. I notice that the Minister is going through the document which I have been referring to for some considerable time and which I have told him before I could quote from. However, I will not take up the time of the House to do so. This legislation is limited now to some extent by the provisions of the Social Services Act. I want to know whether the Minister during the course of the passage of this Bill through the Committee stage can assure the House and industrial organisations, be they white collar or blue collar in character, at this point of time that there will be non-interference with certain conditions which have been arrived at by way of agreement and which deal with social matters. I refer to sick pay and in some certain areas medical benefits. It is not beyond the realm of possibility - in fact it has been mentioned before - that the trade unions will seek to have an agreement between themselves and a particular employer on medical benefits, travel concessions and, as I have already mentioned, retiring allowances. Mention has been made of including even educational benefits such as scholarships within the framework of industrial agreements. Already we have, of course, a wide variety of industrial organisations within the Commonwealth becoming increasingly concerned with credit. Perhaps I may just digress for a short time,  Mr Chairman,  if you will permit me; it is not very often I get any great latitude from the Chair, and I say that with all due respect. But the fact is that there is a danger in this Bill, as I see it, of all those things being interfered with. I think that a responsible Minister would rise and dispute what I am saying. He would say: That is not the intention of the Government'. If it is then not the intention of the Government, surely this Bill has to be more specific because one always has a suspicion that the Full Bench will endeavour to deal with matters perhaps beyond its ambit or its terms of reference, as it were. In addition, of course, there are other areas of concern. One that comes to mind is that this Government in a Bill which came before this House some 2 years ago saw fit to apply a different standard, if I may use that term, to credit unions than applied to other financial organisations. It did this in an attempt to protect the people whom honourable members opposite represent more than others. It was an attempt to protect that area which has been guarded and jealously looked after since 1951, if my memory serves me correctly, fringe banking institutions, which would have been endangered if credit unions had been included in that legislation. 
I would also like to make some reference to the fact that once again on an election eve we have an industrial Bill before the House. I have a suspicion that this has been done by design, that this industrial legislation has been brought before the House on the eve of an election to meet the particular narrow thinking of the Government. I would like to go back to the question of public interest because a lot has been said about it. The thought occurred to me during the suspension of the sitting for dinner that we have a 13-man Cabinet in this place. However, if the Government is concerned about people being represented adequately and properly and is concerned about the public interest, why the devil does it not have representation in Cabinet for each of the States? The Minister for Labour and National Service can take interest now. As I understand it the Cabinet does not have any representative from Tasmania, Western Australia or South Australia. It is true that these States are represented in the Ministry. But clearly, those States do not have Cabinet representation, as distinct from Ministry representation. So we can say that Cabinet - and I notice that the Minister is shaking his head - cannot take into consideration the matter of public interest in the 3 States which I have mentioned. 
In conclusion, the point I want to make is whether the Minister made his recommendations to the Cabinet or whether he made them to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I want to know whether the Minister decided not to go along with this measure that is now before the House until he was over-persuaded by the Prime Minister in an attempt to stand over a number of Ministers and get the type of policy going that he thought would fit the occasion. Did the Minister pay any regard at all to what the Constitutional Review Committee had to say? The Committee covered a very wide area in 1959-61 at a cost to the taxpayer of possibly Sim. Much today has been said about the public interest I would have though that had the Minister or his ministerial colleauges given some real and proper thought and understanding they would at least have made some reference to the report of that Committee. I can see nothing in this Bill that deals with industrial relations or anything which comes anywhere near expressing any concern or providing protection for individual employees so far as automation is concerned. I draw the Minister's attention to page 107, clauses 781 and 782 of the report of the Constitutional Review Committee of 1959. 
What is in this Bill for industrial relations? Are we going to have a situation that is not covered by this Bill, other than by pains and penalty, similar to that which occurred in the La Trobe Valley earlier this year where people played petty politics in an industrial dispute? I can foresee grave industrial problems. To illustrate one, let me mention the automotive industry which employs 25,000 to 30,000 people and an equal number in support industries. If the automotive companies decided to shift their operations from Australia to the Philippines or completely to automate what would happen to about 200,000 people, taking into consideration wives and other dependants of their employees? The Government has no express plan. It says that it has a retraining plan but this is completely out of tune with this type of problem. There is nothing in this measure which would help. Here we are in 1972 with a Government saying that it has a plan for industrial relations which, if it does not completely ignore the problem, at least overlooks it. I cannot believe for the life of me that one can stand in the national Parliament of this country in 1972 and be told that this Government, after all the expert opinion it has sought from overseas, has not seen fit to mention one word about these facts that I have mentioned. 
This whole thing is nothing more than Government damned hypocrisy- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I can think of few clauses in the Bill which deserve more than this one does the absolute and utmost condemnation of all fair minded and thinking members of the Committee. I include in that those on the Government side because they have the opportunity tonight to oppose this proposed section and vote with the Opposition. We have a situation continued in this Bill that makes retrospective payment to people in the community who do not deserve it, do not need it and ought not to get it. We have a situation in which every Minister has had questions directed to him over a long period of time in this Parliament in regard to the cost of living, the minimum wage and social services. In fact, you name it, and that question has been posed to Ministers who invariably have got to their feet and said that these problems have been caused by the wage spiral. They have intervened, however much they might say to the contrary, by way of Press statements and publications put out on behalf of the Liberal Party, such as the great rag called the 'Australian Liberal'. 
The honourable member was silly enough to ask the question. He should read it and see. Here is a former industrial officer of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour who has never stood in this place and advocated a wage rise other than for the kind of people who are being benefited by this clause before us tonight. The honourable member and his colleagues have condemned wage and salary increases. Whenever the necessity for such increases has been put to the Government honourable members opposite have opposed them. Answers to questions asked in this chamber regarding rising prices and so forth place the whole blame for rising prices on wage increases. These are blamed for all of the inflation today. Why does not one of the honourable members opposite get to his feet tonight and admit that measures such as this and previous measures that we have had from the Government - and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is laughing his head off over there - have been responsible for benefiting the less deserving section of the community. As a result of one such measure a quarter of a million dollars was split up among 57 top public servants, but the Government does not give a damn about the Third Division public servants. It is doing the same sort of thing now with this measure. Why does not one of the honourable members opposite endeavour to convince us that a measure increasing a salary and making the increase retrospective will do something for the economy? Why should this fellow get retrospective payment? What good will he do with it? He is not going to spend it. 
The services rendered being what? 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I second the motion. I do so for reasons similar to those which have already been put. During the course of the debate this evening, honourable members on this side of the House have continually been subjected to what I would refer to as a vicious method of applying the gag by a party which has been in office for too long and which is in some kind of desperation. In addition, when the Opposition sought information on the second last clause of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  took up a lot of time and was reluctant to answer the queries of the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  until he had had a chance to refer to officers of his Department. What reason or rhyme has the Government or the Minister had to carry on in the manner in which they have carried on tonight? Why is it- 
 I  support the amendment. If we apply to this Institute the principle which Government supporters apply to those engaged in rural industries, particularly wool growers, I would have though that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who is sitting beside him at the table would bend over backwards and accept the advice that they have just been given. We could get this measure through much more quickly if a little common sense prevailed on the Government side and the Government accepted the amendment which has been proposed. 
I bitterly oppose the motion. At the end of the Budget session last year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  promised that he would not interfere with the latter stages of this session, but what do we find? We find that last week the Government deprived honourable members of a grievance debate and this afternoon we have before us a measure designed to deny honourable members a debate on general business. That is not good enough. I can recall the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  saying in either a television or Press statement last year that ample opportunity is afforded to back bench members of this Parliament to debate the matters that they consider to be of importance. He was referring to grievance debates. In addition he said that honourable members could put their views forward in the form of general business. Acceptance of the motion which has now been brought forward by the Leader of the House will deny honourable members on both sides of the House an opportunity to debate matters of their choice. I have already said that honourable members were denied the opportunity to participate in a grievance debate last week. In addition to that the gag has been applied in such a vicious and intolerant manner during debates in this House in the last 2 weeks that there has not been a proper adjournment debate at the end of the day. 
It so happens that there are a number of matters on the notice paper under the heading of General Business for debate. It is all right for members of the Australian Country Party to agree to this proposal. They have already had a bit of a go on the subject of wool although they have not done very much. I notice that there are some11 items under General Business. I wish to acquaint the House with some of them. Item No. 1 states: 

 Mr Barnard: To move: That this House supports the 2 fundamental principles of the Bandung Declaration. That is (1) noninterference in the affairs of other countries; and (2) the right of all countries to determine their own future; and supports the Prime Minister's call for the withdrawal of Vietcong, North Vietnamese, South Vietnamese and all foreign troops from Cambodia- 
And so on. That is one matter for debate. Another one in which 1 am most interested and which will come up for debate in this House if the normal procedures of the House are followed is item No. 5, which appears under the name of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  That honourable member proposes to move that a committee of the House be appointed to take into consideration the petitions for aid and relief in West Bengal and East Pakistan. Notice of that motion was given on 14th October 1971. So honourable members can see that it has been there for plenty of time. There is also a notice standing in the name of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  which reads as follows: 
That this House disagrees with the announcement by the Prime Minister that Camp Hill will be the site for the New and Permanent Parliament House - 
This matter came up only a few weeks ago on a popular television programme. Much was said about this project costing some $40m. Perhaps one would not be so critical if, today and during the course of the last few weeks, the Government had not played petty party politics to the extent that it brought before this House only the measures it considered should be aired in this place. The Government regards the decision as to what should be discussed in this place as its province and nobody else's. The Government has wasted a considerable amount of time, as it did yesterday in the debate on foreign affairs. Yesterday when I wanted to rise and enter the debate I was not permitted to do so. We always hear the cry by the Party Whips and the Leader of the House that there nas been some form of agreement between the Opposition Whips and the Government when there has been no such agreement. 
The Social Services Bill (No. 3) will come before the House this week. It is limited as to the number of Opposition speakers who will be allowed to address the House on that most important measure and it is restricted as to the amount of time that will be allocated to speakers on that measure. We have waited for weeks for the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill to come before the House. I find that that Bill is restricted in the totality of time and it restricts the number of speakers. Here again the speakers from both sides of the House will have to decrease their time to afford an opportunity to somebody else to speak who is perhaps not on the list. Is this any way to run a government? Is this any way to cater for the rights of the Opposition? The Leader of the House merely stands in this place and says that Government business will take precedence over general business. Why does the Minister not inform the House as to what business the Government intends to fetch on tomorrow morning when the House resumes at 10 o'clock? He has not done that. He squeals all the time and says: 'We have lost 2 hours today.' If the Leader of the House has been losing time, how much time has been saved in running this place by the manner in which petitions are presented to this House now compared with the way they were presented a few weeks ago? 
What does he have to rattle anyway? The fact is that in the last few weeks the Leader of the House has had far more opportunity and time to adjust the affairs of this House than his predecessors have had or than he himself has had previously. Where are the important issues? The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities  (Mr Howson)  spoke today on the important matter of the environment, but there was no debate on the matter. One honourable member from this side of the House had to seek leave of the House - and was fortunately given it - to make some form of contribution. This is a matter which ought to be the subject of a debate of some hours. 
The matter of the environment. The Minister sitting on the front bench opposite asked: 'Which measure is this?'. 
No. I am not worried about the contribution of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths).  I could ask: 'What did the Government do about  Mr St  John, a previous member of this House?' It kicked him out. What did the Government do with the late senator from South Australia who dissociated himself from the Liberal Party's views on our shocking involvement in Vietnam? It ostracised him in this place and never recognised him. Then a Liberal government in South Australia had the hide, upon his death, to appoint another Liberal senator to the Senate on the opposite side of Kings Hall. I thank the Minister for introducing that remark about the honourable member for Shortland. I do not give a damn about the honourable member for Shortland. I do not give a damn about what he had to say in this House today. I hope to goodness that, if I get to that stage, I will not be re-elected to this House. 
I am going to take my full time in this debate unless I am gagged. There have been matters before this House that have been completely and absolutely curtailed. Let me go back to the matter of the environment 
We have a situation in this country in which the Government is a party, by treaty, recognition or otherwise, to the most dastardly acts carried out in the Pacific Ocean by a so-called friendly government. I refer to the atmospheric testing of nuclear devices in the Pacific by a power that will not test them near its own shores and contaminate its people. We could have said something about that in relation to the environment today. The Government has not shown that it has a proper understanding of the dangers of fallout, particularly to the people who are living in the southern half of this continent. We should be afforded the opportunity to tell this House that, because of the type of testing and atomic plants in America today, 7 per cent of children are born deformed. Are we not entitled to time in this House to question the Government as to why this is happening and why something should not be said about it in this place, why a form of inquiry should not be undertaken and why we should not search our minds and ask the questions that ought to be asked in regard to it? 
Should we not have an opportunity in this House to say to the Government that the Concorde aircraft should not land in this country until such time as we are assured - doubly assured, for that matter - that it will not interfere with the rights of the public of this country? If I lived anywhere near the airports in Sydney I would be out on the streets and, as a member of the Federal Parliament, would urge as many people as possible to be at that particular airport on the day the Concorde is scheduled to land, to prevent it from landing. That is what ought to be done and that is what we ought to be speaking about in this place. Yet the Government will not provide a notice paper which will give honourable members the right to debate these matters, and any opportunity an honourable member has as an individually elected member of this Parliament to raise those issues will be denied to him because the Government will use the gag, the guillotine and the old numbers game to prevent such a debate in this place. Since I have been in this place, at no time has the Government had the guts, the courage, the common sense or the common decency to produce for a particular session a legislative programme in the true and proper sense so that people could understand it. The daily programme is an insult to the intelligence of the average person. It is an absolute disgrace to describe it as a legislative programme for any particular time. The blue paper is not always followed. It is often completely ignored. I hope that an honourable member opposite will get up and correct me if I am wrong. The programme is often curtailed. The Government is completely, absolutely and utterly dictatorial. 
I do not give a darn what it has on the top of it. That does not worry me at all. It has 'Prayers' at the top of it. One should say prayers with a degree of sincerity. If the honourable member for Mallee will tell me that this Government, since it was elected in 1969, has produced a legislative programme for this House prior to each session I will get up and apologise to the place but I do not think I will need to do that. Let me remind the honourable, gallant, knighted gentleman that the Governor-General's Speech lasted about one minute 58 seconds and, if my memory serves me correctly, he delivered us into the hands of God. Honourable members have the right to receive replies to certain questions from Ministers. I will wind up on this note,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I notice that you are watching the clock pretty closely - or maybe it is the gallery. 
I have raised the matter of Assistant Ministers before, and it has been bashed through this House. During the course of the last 2 weeks I directed correspondence to a Minister who is in the Senate - the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  Incidentally, he is the Leader of the Government in that House. He is a Minister as a result of the Prime Minister's whim to appoint him to such a position. I received a letter back from a fellow in the Senate who signs himself  'Senator Marriott'  and who says that he is the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Health. My understanding is that the  President  of the Senate has declared, quite openly and quite distinctly, that he will not recognise Assistant Ministers. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have great pleasure in seconding the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders and would submit- 
Has the honourable member finished? The reason that the Standing Orders contain such a provision is to enable what is being attempted in the House this morning. I attended a meeting with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who virtually gave that meeting an undertaking that, before the House rose for the winter recess, there would be available to the House and to the industry per medium of debate in this place a full report of the inquiry that he had promised on that occasion would be undertaken and expedited. I refer of course to the Grant Report. Public statements have been made by honourable members which support very strongly the carrying of the motion to suspend Standing Orders this morning. Those statements have been made by honourable members who have a vested interest in misleading many of their electors in regard to this matter, namely, the imposition of the wine tax. 
The honourable member for Barker CD, Forbes) strode out of the chamber. 1 have a petition here from growers in his electorate for which he refuses to undertake any responsibility. T am quite sure that each of those signatories from the Southern Vales Co-operative Winery Ltd would be most anxious- 
I think that the motion to suspend Standing Orders should be carried this morning in order to let the people in the wine industry in South Australia know that at least their objections to the wine tax would be permitted to be debated once again in this chamber. Surely the Minister for Primary Industry should support and take notice of this motion if he recalls the very strong statements he made in regard to this matter at a meeting of wine grape growers and representatives of the industry at Berri earlier this year. Surely the industry spokesmen should not be ignored. For that reason alone there should be a recognition in this place at the importance of this measure by carrying the motion, so that the views of the industry could be put forward. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  stated when moving his motion, this is the only way that we could have such a debate because the Government has once again shirked its responsibilities in not bringing forward a report in the manner in which it normally brings business before this House. There has been no mention of this report,  Mr Speaker  - and I can see you getting uneasy once again. 
If I might suggest to the disrespectful Minister for the Army, I am not being at all disrespectful to the Chair. The remarks of the Minister for the Army on the quiet in this place are mostly disgraceful. This House should not deny the passage of this motion which is for the purpose of ventilating in this place all the shortcomings of Government supporters and their complete abdication of responsibility towards others. This applies particularly to the honourable members for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and Barker, /ho have broken promises that have been made at various meetings, particularly in the electorate of Angas. This has not applied so much to the electorate of Barker, if at all. Those honourable members have adbicated their responsibilities towards the people who live in those places. 
It is with some regret that I find myself on my feet supporting a measure such as this. 1 regret it because we should not have to rely on the suspension of Standing Orders to debate this very important matter to the State of South Australia, which is the main producer of wine in this country. I feel quite strongly about the fact that one has to stand in support of a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders when the Government should accept the responsibility for having the matter now sought to be discussed brought before the House in a right and proper manner, as it is endeavouring to do in the last hours of this Parliament in relation to the wool industry. 
There is no motion before the Chair for discussion. When I have put the question I will call the honourable member. 
I understood that the Government had another  speaker,  besides the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  to speak in this debate. Because that  speaker  is not in the chamber at the moment, one could perhaps question whether he will follow what will be 2 speakers from the Opposition. 
I support the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who expressed the view that we were not opposed to the Bill. I rise because of the fact that the second reading speech made by the Minister was much more extensive than I thought it would have been, in view of the restrictive nature of the Bill that is now before the House. I noted,  Mr Speaker,  that on one occasion you saw fit to draw the attention of the honourable member for Newcastle to the fact that he was moving outside the Bill in canvassing these matters in the debate. I was also pleased,  Mr Speaker,  that you did allow some latitude to that honourable member, and I would hope that you would allow me similar latitude in order to permit at least reasonable debate on this measure. 
I think that at this point in time the Bill itself does nothing much more than to extend, for a further 12 months the provisions contained in the Bill which was passed by this chamber last year. But it is interesting to note that there has been some criticism by the Minister of the current situation on the waterfront relative to a number of matters in the maritime industry. The Minister saw fit to criticise the type of industrial agreement that has just been negotiated and has been overwhelmingly endorsed by a democratic vote of the whole of the membership of the Waterside Workers Federation. He has been critical of the fact that the industry has been able to get together and perhaps solve its own domestic problems insofar as its wage structure is concerned and, indeed, beyond that, in a very wide area of the conditions on the waterfront, none of which is less important than the question of redundancy. 
I am sure that the Minister will agree that since 1965 the industry itself has virtually moved away from being a labour intensive industry to one which, at this point of time could be described as a mechanised intensive industry. In support of that one would need to go no further than to refer to the total membership of the Federation. From 1963, when the first of the unit vessels started to arrive on the coast, if my memory serves me correctly, until this point of time the membership of the Federation dropped from 26,000 odd to 16,000. I would think that would be a more accurate figure today. We had ports that carried approximately 2,500 men in a labour intensive field which had a nonmechanised structure for the loading and unloading of vessels. The number of men employed in these ports today has dropped to 900. 
I think the Minister in his second reading speech expressed some disappointment about industrial disputes within the industry. I think he has failed to appreciate that with such a very large percentage of the labour force lost to the industry because of mechanisation there has not been as much disputation around this as perhaps one could have expected in an industry such as the one covered by the Bill with which we are dealing at the present time. The Minister in his position should realise when mechanisation started to have its effect on the waterfront there were a number of matters peculiar to the industry. There was an extremely high average age among the men engaged in the industry, and this meant that the men who were closest to retiring age and were considered to be redundant, found it extremely difficult to be trained in some other occupation. In addition there was the fact that the Act itself stated that the last men who joined the industry should be the first to go. So the Government deprived the industry of the younger, fit men and retained those who had had a lifetime in a very hazardous and arduous industry to carry on the burden of work. 
The Government should not complain about the decisions reached at various conferences since  1965  relative to this industry because I suppose it could be laid on the doorstep of the Government that the whole conference system commenced as a result of legislation that unfortunately was passed through this House in  1965.  The Minister has made some reference to that inasmuch as he referred to the  chairman  of the conference as being  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C. As I said before, viewed against the background of the immense problems associated with the industry in relation to a whole number of factors which no doubt will continue in the future, I do not think we should at this point of time be too critical of the fact that perhaps this system has not come up to all expectations. Many revolutionary methods in the handling of cargo which no doubt will come on to the Australian waterfront within the next few years were not thought of when the original conferences began. I refer to PAD vessels and so on. There are ships today that are capable of being loaded and unloaded without the use of manual effort, other than that which is required for the purpose of directing, driving and handling mechanical equipment generally. 
It seems to me that the Government still has a responsibility in this area and that it has not met that responsibility to an extent where it would effect improved industrial relations. I refer there to a proper concept of what industrial relations ought to be. Some matters have not been resolved by recent conferences, as the Minister would know. The Minister and his Government have adopted an attitude which has led almost to direct industrial disputation, not because of the attitude between the parties within the industry on the basis of employer and employee but rather because of the attitude projected by the Government which was disappointed to find that industrial peace might perhaps prevail on the waterfront area generally. The criticism of the negotiations at a vital time by the Minister and by supporters of the Government in this place certainly did not add to the collective arrangements and bargaining that was going on at various employer and employee levels. The Minister has completely overlooked the fact that from the inception of the conference system - there is mention of this in the second reading speech and the Bill makes provision for this- 
I must have inadvertently said 'not' because the fact is that there is something in the Bill to which I am now going to refer. The Government should realise and recognise the fact that it has been, directly or indirectly - whichever way the Minister likes to read it - involved in a form of direct negotiation and in a form of collective bargaining of which the Minister has been so critical in the past. The Government has at least had its agents there in two ways - through the Department of Labour and National  Service,  for which Department the Minister has responsibility, and also through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
If the Minister is critical and continues to be critical of what has happened in the past, I urge him to inform the House whether his Department is prepared on behalf of the industry and after proper and understood discussions with those in the industry, be they employer or employee, to recognise that the problems have not gone and that the intense mechanisation will continue.  His  Department ought to be prepared to discuss these measures on a proper understanding of industrial relations for the benefit of the industry, of transport generally and in the public interest, to which he has made some brief reference. I urge the Minister to realise that all the problems in any industry are not loaded on one particular side, but are a responsibility of both sides. 
It has been said by the industry that the gains made by or benefits given to the industry in the last few weeks as a result of some months of discussions are not in themselves going to cause any freight rate increase, although a newspaper report this morning was somewhat to the contrary. I remind the Minister when he is dealing with this area that, for a number of years when there was no wage movement whatsoever in the industry, the percentage cost of freight was the highest it had ever been and, indeed, was much higher than when there were wage increases within the industry. Like my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle, I do not oppose the Bill. 
I have much pleasure in seconding the motion. 
I understand that a copy is already with the  Clerk.  Approximately 9 hours ago this House was dealing with a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders for the purpose of initiating a debate on the imposition of the wine tax by this Government upon the wine industry. Since the wine tax was imposed inquir ies have been made by this Government. This Government is prone to setting up some form of inquiry or with monotonous regularity establishing a committee whenever feeling is against some form of taxation or legislation introduced by this Government. The Government did not need a committee of inquiry to tell it that it should impose this tax on a rural industry which seems to be successful and which was showing some form of annual growth rate before the imposition of this tax. The Government has stooped to all sorts of subterfuges, one of which was to make inquiries. This was the pattern under the previous Prime Minister, the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the previous Minister for Primary Industry and the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in regard to this type of tax. How much was involved in terms of the cost of the inquiries? Perhaps it may be said that the Government is spending $7m to save itself or to attempt to save itself. 
It is of no use the Government saying tonight that it is prepared to introduce into this House measures to reduce the tax by about 50 per cent. As the Federal member for the electorate of Sturt, an area in which a large percentage of Australia's wine is produced, I have been associated with the wine industry and I have attended meetings relating to the imposition of this tax by this Government. I have attended meetings at which the Minister for Primary Industry has been in attendance. He is now sitting at the table chatting with the honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles).  At these meetings in areas where grape juice is produced attacks have been made on the Labor Party and the honourable member for Angas has in fact said that if the Opposition were prepared to stand up in this House and move a motion for the abolition of the wine tax he would support the motion. The Minister for Primary Industry is engaged in a conversation at the table. 
I appreciate the fact that you have now broken up this wine gathering of such insincere people. While this tax is imposed on the industry the growers will be forced to meet an overhead which is not fair and not desirable. While any percentage of this tax is imposed on the industry this Government is forcing the growers to bear an overhead - just to satisfy the whims of a Department. Just how fair dinkum are Government supporters in this place? How insincere are they when the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  can introduce tariff proposals as he did tonight? He said: 
This decrease in wine excise will mean a reduction in revenue of approximately $500,000 this year and some 97m in a full year. 
This indicates what I said earlier, that there was no necessity in a rich and prosperous country like ours to impose this tax to gather such a paltry sum of money. It is paltry when looked at against the background of other sources of revenue which are available to the Government. How is it that before these proposals were introduced into this House a certain member of the House was able to issue a Press statement in regard to it? This makes a complete and utter mockery of the remarks by the Minister for Customs and Excise who said introducing these proposals:  1 understand that my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, will be releasing a Press statement which will elaborate upon the Government's consideration of Professor Grant's report. 
What utter hypocrisy.  Mr Speaker,  you know as well as I do that this report was released before the House met after dinner tonight. Not only has the Minister been unfair to the House, not only has he been unscrupulous in his dealings with the House - perhaps 1 could use a stronger word but I will not do so- 
The fact is that before the House resumed after dinner, before the Minister rose to speak on this matter the countryside was being flooded with a Press report in regard to it. What can we say about the honourable member for Angas who has done a similar thing? This Press release by the honourable member stated: 

 Mr Giles said it was never easy to convince a Government that it should change direction. 
The honourable member has never tried hard enough. He has 'twiced' on this matter. If he tries to be all things to all people and he has not the courage to stand up to the Cabinet and the Government in the Party room, of course it is not easy to force it to change direction. 
This is your Press statement. It is in your name. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  If I may quote further from a Press statement issued in the 't, '"-&gt; the honourable member for Angas, it reads: 

 Mr Giles said the Labor  any had consistently played politics on the  issue,  without any regard to the position of the industry and of growers, e.g., the infamous growers meeting at Berri - and had steadfastly refused to have a policy helpful to growers. 
I remind the honourable member for Angas of the absolute guarantee which he gave at that meeting when he said that he would support the removal of the wine tax. 1 challenge him at this very moment to support it. He said in front of the Minister at the meeting at Berri that he would support the Government provided the Government- 
The Opposition. Thank you for the correction. The honourable member said he would support the Opposition if, apart from the abolition of the tax, it would not impose any form of sales tax. Is that right? That is what he said. I thank him for nodding his head. What is his position tonight as an individual representing his constituents? It is for him to make a choice. 
The proposal says something about Press statements being issued. In addition the proposal is one that deals with- 
Thank you. By retaining a tax on the wine industry the Government gets more out of a bottle of wine than the grower, and that is the very point that we on this side have been bitterly opposed to since the inception of this tax. It may be argued that this may not be so with all wines at all times. There could be one statistical quarterly period in which this may perhaps not be so, but overall, as a chief spokesman for the industry has said, this is what it means. As far as we on this side are concerned, the whole structure of the rural industry has been bled white by the middle man, and in this case beyond the middle man must come the Government. It is wrong in principle for Government supporters to stand up in this place purporting to represent the rural interests of this country when this Government inflicts a form of tax that removes from growers an adequate and proper return or takehome pay in return for the efforts and risks that they have undetaken in any form of rural industry, let alone in the wine industry. This is an industry that is reliant on buoyancy and growth. The Government has stopped that growth. It was suggested that the industry has been marking time and will now pick up. Its growth has stopped and has been stopped now for nigh on 2 years. The various co-operatives, particularly the smaller co-operatives, can testify as to what has been inflicted upon them by the imposition of the wine excise. To use the words of the honouable member for Angas, it is not too late. I suggest to him tonight that, whilst it might be difficult for him to get the Government to change direction, he himself as an individual has an opportunity at this time to change direction and support and really represent the people in his electorate by the very simple method available to him in this House tonight. I suggest that in his own interest he take that opportunity. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise on a point of personal explanation. 
I do. During the course of his remarks to the House tonight the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  referred to my colleague the honourable member for Riverina and to me in relation to the suspension of Standing Orders this morning. I refer the Minister to a question asked in the Senate on 9th May and to the reply given by the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in the Senate on that date. I refer him to the article by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in the 'Advertiser' on 8th April this year, and I also refer the Minister to what was said by the Minister representing him in the Senate. In addition I refer to the statement that the Minister made in this House this morning during the course of his closing remarks to the House - this is my point of explanation - on when the House could expect some further information on what was to occur in regard to this matter. 
I admit my transgression. I only wish there was a procedure in this House whereby one could really say what happened in the Senate on that occasion. Perhaps he would be convinced. I will explain how I was misrepresented. 
I shall not be long,  Mr Speaker,  and I shall explain. The Minister knows full well that in what he said here tonight he misconstrued my remarks. By way of a question to the Minister during the luncheon adjournment - deny it if he will; I will not believe him - I asked him when we could expect the measure to come before the House. The Minister replied to me: 'You would be very surprised at what is going to happen during the course of this day'. I ask the Minister to tell the truth. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I did not expect that- 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, when announcing the proposed commitment of an infantry battalion for service in South Vietnam, state in the House on 29th April, 1965 (Hansard, page 1061) that the takeover of South Vietnam must be seen as part of a thrust by Communist China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
If so, has this analysis proved to be correct. 
If the analysis is correct, what evidence is available to him of a thrust by Communist China. 
Is the Government now satisfied that the modest additional contribution referred to by  Sir Robert  Menzies has been successful in defeating the Communist Chinese. 
Are the Communist Chinese, who were named as the real aggressors, now ready to sue for peace. 
I rise to support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  and in doing so I will acquaint the House with the main parts of it, which refers to:   . . the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation with tho States, a national plan for (a) the full use and development of Australia's forest resources and (b) the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. 
The State of South Australia could be said to have pioneered afforestation by the planting of softwood forests many years ago. As 1 have given an undertaking to restrict my comments on this Bill, I will come quite quickly to the point by saying that the people in the south east of South Australia were most disturbed quite recently, as the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  knows, because of the fact that South Australia was suffering from some form of discrimination as a result of a direct reduction in its acreage and the assistance provided for the planting and maintaining of the acreage which had been sought and agreed upon at a conference of the Australian Forestry Council in about March of last year. It came as a considerable shock to the appropriate Minister in South Australia,  Mr Casey,  when he learned that in fact there was to be, as he understood it, a reduction of approximately 67 per cent in what he had been led to believe would be the situation following the conference of the Forestry Council. He was most alarmed about it, and he sent a letter to all Federal members who represent South Australian electorates. One of the reasons why I am on my feet is to point out that there was no response from the member who represents the Federal Division of Barker in which, by and large, a large part of the softwood forest in South Australia lie. He is the only Cabinet Minister from South Australia- 
I thank the honourable member for Angas for the correction. He is only a Minister. He is not in the Cabinet. It is apparent that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not consider that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  has sufficient material for him to be in the Cabinet. Like the honourable member for Angas, who is interjecting and who has not taken up the cudgels on behalf of his electorate in regard to the imposition of the wine tax, his colleague the honourable member for Barker did not- 
I support the amendment. I do so because of the fact that this Government has double standards so far as wage structures and wage justice are concerned. This is a Government that has listened to a debate this afternoon in regard to a number of workers who are becoming redundant in Western Australia but has offered nothing by way of constructive debate so far as those unfortunate people in the community are concerned. This is a Government which deals with a wage structure on the basis that people who are closest to it will be supported, on the basis of discrimination and - I would tend to think- of hypocrisy. The Government knows full well the attitude of members of this side of the House but hopes to go out on the hustings and say that members of the Opposition denied a wage increase in certain areas in which the Government has responsibilities by way of legislative measures. This is a Government that we on this side of the House say is dealing in double standards. This is a Government that we on this side of the House say is denying proper wage justice and wage fixation to those people in the Public Service who do not rely upon measures to ge through this Parliament to be given their salaries and wage increases. 
This is a Government that does not give a damn about the 10 per cent of workers in Broken Hill who have been declared redundant. This is a Government which in the last few minutes passed legislation involving millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money for the benefit of industry. I have no quarrel at this time with this action at that particular level. But this is a Government that is not prepared in any way, shape or form, to recognise that there is a human element to technological change in industry and that readjustments and rationalisation in industry have affected in one fell swoop some 600 men each of whom has an average family of 3 or perhaps 4 persons. Yet, the Government does not give a damn about the manner in which they are going to live. It is a government bereft of any plan, a government that has denied completely the type of inquiry that should surround what is happening in Western Australia and in Broken Hill, what has happened in South Australia in the durable industries and what has happened in the rural sector. Its only action has been to finance the sweeping of a few gutters in the mab streets of country towns. In fact, only the other day in South Australia I heard that the Government, as part of its aid programme to provide employment in rural areas, was opening up tracts of land in the rural areas of South Australia, areas that were put down- 
No, I will not. I shall remain on my feet and I shall come back to the Bill, as  Mr Speaker  has suggested. This Government is guilty of quite open and blatant intervention in areas where agreements have been made between unions and employers. An examination will reveal that the Government has no right of intervention in the matter to which I refer and which affects a large number of people in a maritime industry, namely, the waterside workers and shipowners. However, it does perhaps have some influence with regard to country ports, although I have not heard members of the Country Party speak on this subject. 
Tonight on a national television broadcast an attitude was expressed by representatives of employers' organisations - people whom the Government says it represents - virtually indicating that they were sick and tired of the attitude of the Government towards wage fixation. Honourable members probably will read about this tomorrow in the daily Press. They said that they were quite prepared to accept wage fixation - I should think that the matter now before the House most certainly deals with wage and salary fixations - on a basis proposed by representatives of the University of Melbourne who indicated that they were prepared to look very seriously at the concept of a national economy standard, although that is not the exact phrase that they used. However, this is the thinking of both employer and employee groups. Is it the Government's intention to intervene in this matter and say that this cannot be done? If the Government does this - I have no doubt that it will more or less confirm what I have said tonight, that it is a government of double standards which is prepared to see the higher salaries increased to go higher and higher. 1 have not seen any recommendation before this House or heard anything from any Minister who has been asked a question from this side of the House to suggest that the Government would perhaps make some reference to the Public Service Arbitrator to lift the lower rungs of Public Service salaries. Members of the Public Service still rely on their industrial organisations, to put their case, but immediately those Public Service organisations attempt to do something of this nature in order to gain a percentage increase, as was instanced by the honourable member for Grayndler a number of Ministers go clamouring to the Press making all sorts of statements that there must not be a flow-on. Why is it then that the Government, with its hypocritical attitude, keeps wheeling this measure before the House, endeavouring to give the tall poppies a salary increase? Ministers and other honourable members opposite will not convince me that any one of the number of people who, under the provisions of this Bill, will have their salaries increased from $18,000 to $22,000 a year need that amount of money on which to live. 
However, I do know that people making up a large percentage of the Australian community are on a minimum wage level which places them just SOc a week above the poverty line, according to the adjusted figure for the poverty line which was established at the end of last year. The recent increases which they received and about which this Government bleated so much put them just SOc, at a maximum, above the poverty line. This Government has done nothing to lift the standard of the welfare structure, including child endowment. It has done nothing under its subsidised medical health scheme to lift the burden of health costs from the low and minimum wage earners. This section of the community requires some action. The gap between their wage and the higher salaries is getting wider and the concept of a total wage increase based on percentages which was established early in the 1960s and which probably goes back as far as 1957 has meant that the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. This is a matter about which we in this place should be concerned. Nobody is going to convince me that the people referred to in the Bill require an extra $70 or $80 a week on which to live. 
The previous Minister for External Territories says: Take it out of the taxpayer.' If the honourable member were to look at the taxation schedule and equate what the low wage earner was paying in taxation in, say, 1947 with what he is paying now he would get a hell of a shock. 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  I thought that this did deal with salaries. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 apologise for my transgression, but the very wealthy honourable* member interjected and I thought I should say something about it. I have expressed the Opposition's attitude to the Bill. If the Government were to put before this House a policy that would provide an adequate and proper living standard for the 60-odd per cent of the people whom it says it represents, it would find no opposition from this side of the House. But if the Government wants to deal with the matter in bits and pieces and wants to give a salary increase to the tall poppies only, it will find that objection will be raised. 
I will not go along with the argument that has been introduced by some honourable members opposite - perhaps not in this debate - that unless the people who are affected by the Bill now before the House receive the salary increases provided for in the Bill, the wage fixing structures which provide increases to the lower levels within the Public Service or anywhere else will be inhibited. If that were true, one would find oneself as an advocate for a trade union making an application for a wage increase before the court arguing that the managing director or the board of directors should receive an increase first and that only after they received their increases could some attention be paid to those who were at the factory floor level. The attitude of the Government is that it will look after a select, privileged few and that it will give money to people who do not need it. Probably the Government will not get this money back by way of taxation until such time as these people pass on. Then, as I have said before, the Government might get it back by way of death duties. Are these people going to spend this increase for the benefit of the economic situation of the country? They will not spend a zac of it, and the Government knows it. 
I have said nothing about the people who are kept down under our social welfare structure. I refer to the invalid pensioners, other people at various pensioner levels and those who are now joining the dole queues. In this country the Government is denying people the right to earn a fair and satisfactory living and an opportunity to educate their children or to allow that education to be continued. This Bill pays no attention whatever to that particular area of need. There are 100,000 people presently unemployed m this country and, when one takes into consideration that each of the 100,000 people who is unemployed would have an average of at least 3 dependants, there would be 500,000 people on the dole. It is all very well to say that the figures to which I have referred are seasonally adjusted. Are honourable members opposite going to tell me that the salaries proposed in the Bill are seasonally adjusted figures? The recent one per cent increase in the popularity of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  might also have been a seasonally adjusted figure. The Bil] does not pay even some form of lip service to the fact that people are justified in receiving wage justice today. That is why we on this side of the House have adopted this attitude to the Bill. We are entitled to take this attitude, as the honourable member for Grayndler said, with the full knowledge that the measure will not receive a passage through the Senate. 
'My question is directed to the Prime Minister and concerns a proposal for a housing finance scheme for servicemen. Does the Prime Minister recall assuring the House when replying to a question 6 months ago 'by the honourable member for La Trobe that the Minister for Housing had already presented a submission for the setting up of a home finance scheme for members of the regular forces? Did the Prime Minister assure the House also that Cabinet would consider the submission on that same day? What was the Cabinet decision on this question? When was it made and when can servicemen expect to derive benefit from that Cabinet decision? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister who no doubt will be aware of the publicity given to the purchase of Everard Park in South Australia and the wide discrepancy in figures which have been quoted. In view of the Government's recent blunder in the purchase of Everard Park and in view of his policy statement on Aboriginal land rights, will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to the Parliament that all documents and details of financial transactions relating to the purchase of Everard Park will be tabled in this House for consideration and debate? Will the Prime Minister, in view of his Government's agreement to purchase the property from Byron MacLachlan, disclose the price paid by that person and the amount involved in the Government's purchase from  Mr MacLachlan?  Finally, will the Prime Minister lay down firm guidelines for future acquisition of land for Aborigines in accordance with the statement he made on Australia Day this year? 
I support the Bill because there is no real reason to oppose it in the strict sense. I rise to point out, as I have pointed out on previous occasions, the concern regarding water that is taken from the River Murray system generally. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  said that the grant is to be made in phase 2 of the national water resources development programme. Bearing that in mind, one can perhaps elaborate on the concern that has been expressed from time to time on this side of the House in regard to the present Government's attitude towards water conservation and water resources generally in the Murray River. The Government should apply itself to the catchment area not only of the Murray River but also of the Darling River. 1 have raised this matter on a number of occasions since I have been in this place. 
One further aspect of this matter is that once again the Government has brought down a measure limited to serve a particular area of Victoria. As has been said by previous speakers, the Government intends to replace on open drain by pipelines. According to the Minister's second reading speech, this will reduce the amount of water taken from the River Murray. One turns, naturally, to some form of documentation provided to the Parliament which would confirm what the Minister said in his second reading speech. I am referring to the explanatory memorandum. I have searched the explanatory memorandum in the brief time in which it has been made available to honourable members and I am unable to ascertain from that document whether less water will be pumped from the River Murray system into this area, which is reasonably regarded as a pretty arid portion of Victoria. 
The map contained within the memorandum is somewhat misleading also. It goes into some detail in its main portion and gives the outline of the borders of that State coloured in black. In the northwestern corner of the diagram is the area which one can perhaps say will be the area to benefit from the expenditure of this $2m plus whatever the Victorian Government has decided to contribute. I would like the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is at the table, or the Minister for National Development to indicate finally whether the shaded portion in the centre of the foot of the main map is concerned with this so-called developmental project. If it is, it extends from the boundaries of Victoria into the boundaries of New South Wales, in the north-western corner of the map, but it does not extend into the border areas of South Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development said: 
Water diversions from the Murray River will be reduced from about 8,200 to 2,670 acre feet per annum, because of the reduction of losses achieved with the new scheme. 
It is true that it does not require any great elaboration for one to realise that there will be a saving in water by the introduction of a pipeline as compared with an open drain. 
The honourable member may call them what he likes. When I have gone past them they were drains in the true sense of the word. 
The honourable member may call them channels, canals or whatever he likes. In spite of the fact that the honourable member made a lot of shots at people who live in suburban and city areas I did not interject upon him, and I suggest that the honourable member for Mallee, having said his piece, should leave it at that. 
The documents before the House do not prove what the Minister said in his second reading speech relating to a reduction. The memorandum points out that there could be a 20 per cent increase in stockholding, for a start. The Minister said that it is not expected that there will be any great environmental problems as a result of this scheme. I agree with the Government's attitude as it is spelt out in the second reading speech. I disagree with the document, which does not support what the Minister said, and which states that there should be some form of restriction. Much of this so-called developed area in South Australia and Victoria or land of a similar type should never have been developed anyway and should never have had a plough, a harrow or any agricultural implement put upon it. It has cost the country a great deal. It can never be regarded as being viable. That is spelt out in the document before the House. About one-third of the original settlers have been forced off their properties, or starved off their properties, because they could not scratch a living out of this pretty arid area. If there is to be a restriction it ought to be spelt out in the document. 
The document says that there is a requirement for each farmer, irrespective of whether or not he is a rich land owner, who is going to have water delivered by a pipeline to provide at least 5,000 gallons storage capacity on his own property. There is nothing in this document to say that a land owner may not irrigate. He may grow nice roses if. he can or may grow some lawns around: his. homestead but there is nothing to say that he may not irrigate. There is no restriction on his gallonage. It may be that a fellow on the 12- inch pipeline will have . some advantage over the fellow from the more remote area on the 1-inch pipeline. I think restrictions would be imposed on a producer according to what type of service he receives. One can reasonably assume that if there is to be an increase in stockholding in the area it will be brought about by increasing irrigation. If there is an increase in irrigation will we be faced in a few years time with the problems that are now facing the Government as a result of its not having sufficient foresight to prevent millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money going to rural areas. I believe that the. taxpayers should be required to bear some responsibility for rural areas in such things as support schemes but I think that the taxpayer has every right to object to schemes of this nature being put up for which he pays initially and for which he is forced to pay threefold or even more later on. 
One should go back 10 years and look at the Government's scheme - particularly the Country Party's scheme1 - for the areas adjacent to the area we are talking about now. Vast acreages of fruit trees - pears and peaches - were put in, trees were pulled out and then planted again. We heard the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  say in this place only the other night that finance will be made available for a vast scheme of tree pulling. Who is paying for it? The rural producer is disappointed because he has not been able to market his product for a number of years. He has made his complaints known to political parties in this place and they are going to do something about it. Money was wasted because the farmers were advised and encouraged to plant such vast acreages of fruit and sufficient market research was not made. The produce is unmarketable today. lt is said that the scheme will permit a 20 per cent increase in stockholding. Let us look at the type of stock that runs on this land today. It consists almost entirely of rural products for which the Government has failed to secure proper markets. Only in the last 24 hours I heard that a prominent- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who just took the point of order is somewhat touchy on this subject because the matters I have mentioned concern his electorate. 1 am concerned about the 20 pel cent increase. For God's sake, let us not continue in the manner we have in this House for years and urge people to carry more stock when we cannot find a market for their present production. It is not common sense. If I may transgress for a short time, I was about to say that not one member of the Government has taken himself overseas seriously concerned with the marketing problems confronting the people he purports to represent, as have the representatives of Canada in China because it represents 90 per cent of their overseas trade. 
I appreciate your allowing me to get that little bit in. I did it only because I was under pressure from criticism by the young fellow from Murray. 
I could not think of his name but it is the honourable member for Murray. I did not say 'Mallee', I said Murray'. I made it quite clear what a responsible government should do about this matter and I would appreciate it if the Minister for Housing who is at the table or another Minister or a member of the Government Parties when he speaks in this debate would spell out to me - I am quite a simple person - how the Minister can say in the memorandum or the second reading speech that he will take less out of '.he river, irrigate more, increase the stock in the area by 20 per cent, provide storages on farms but not restrict the area of land a person can irrigate. Taking into consideration the fact that none of those restrictions are in the memorandum or the second reading speech, how can the Government say in truth- 
If you will permit me to say so,  Mr Speaker,  I think I know enough about evaporation. If a drop of water is put into a kettle without a lid it will evaporate through the opening. That also applies to the honourable member for Mallee. 
I support the Bill, but the Government should not think that we on this side of the House are a bunch of clots and that it can put this sort of thing into the Bill and memorandum without spelling out properly,, in a way any intelligent person can understand, what its intentions are. Let it say: "This is tie element that will support it'. But it should not present a document on the basis that the Government will do certain things when it does not have a snowball's chance of carrying them out within the terms of the memorandum. 
I rise similarly,  Mr Speaker, 
I am rising on a point of order. I suggest that the Prime Minister should withdraw his statement- 
The Prime Minister in answer to a question this morning referred to members on this side of the House as being associated with- 
I will have another go in a minute. 
I want to raise tonight a matter which concerns a serving soldier who has had 2 periods of service in Vietnam. I do so because of the shocking treatment accorded this person by Government departments. I have been in this place for over 3 years and I repeatedly hear remarks from the Government benches that suggest that the only people capable of looking after ex-servicemen from any of the wars in which we have been involved, and those servicemen still serving in war zones, are supporters of the Government. Let me then acquaint this House with some of the wounds that this person received during his service. In February 1968 he received gunshot wounds to the right hand. In April 1970 he received the following wounds resulting from a mine blast: Wounds to both thighs, wounds to both buttocks, wounds to both arms, amputated fifth left finger, wounds to the back, lumbar-sacral plexus injury, multiple foreign bodies in all limbs, tinnitus left ear, blast injury to right ear and sigmoid colostomy.  His  disabilities from the mine blast in April 1970 are as follows: Unable to sleep without drugs, unable to stand for long periods, unable to walk long distances, unable to sit on hard seats, pain in left heel, stiffness in left ankle, dropfoot in left foot and loss of strength in left hand. 1 do not know what honourable members opposite are laughing about. 
Not much. Why do you not have a bit of respect.  His  other disabilities were as follows: Highpitched noises in left ear, loss of hearing in both ears, pain below colostomy area and diarrhoea regularly. This man was hospitalised for some considerable time. He was given a 100 per cent war pension by the Repatriation Department. The Department courteously wrote this man a letter a few months ago and told him that his pension had been cut down to $9 a fortnight.  His  period of duty is due to expire in January of next year. He has been consulted by the military doctors on 4 occasions. I am glad that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  is listening to what I am saying. If this is the sort of treatment accorded to a serving soldier, what the hell can this person expect when he is discharged from the 
Army 
I repeat that the Repatriation Department wrote him a letter informing him that his pension would be reduced to $9 a fortnight. He has not a snowball's chance in hell - excuse the expression - of being able to take up his previous employment or of being able to take any form of employment. Shortly after he was told by the Repatriation Department that it would not pay him more than $9 a fortnight he received a letter from the Department of Social Services of this gracious Government. I will not mention his name. The letter states: 
This is to certify that . . . has been issued with a motor vehicle sales tax exemption certificate under item 135A of the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1960 because he has lost the use of one or both legs to such an extent that he is permanently unable to use public transport to and from gainful employment. 
He got that letter from the Department. He often has to visit private doctors. I have documents to support all that 1 say. The Repatriation Department has been so callous that it has reduced his pension. He still has to visit Repatriation doctors because he is a serving member. The duties he undertakes take him to country areas. He has been hospitalised on a number of occasions. It is only since the Repatriation Department damn well dumped this man - the Army is intent only on getting rid of him at the end of his service - that the doctors have discovered that he has practically no hearing in one ear. This lad engaged actively in a number of sports - tennis, cricket and football. He was a good swimmer. These days he is reluctant to strip off to swim because of the very extensive scarring he has on all his limbs. 
I have mentioned the type of treatment that he got from this grateful Government, as it is so often called in this place by members opposite. This man is one of 3 returned soldiers in my electorate who have complained to me. I have written to Minister after Minister in regard to one. I have written in regard to retraining, in regard to re-employment and in regard to securing employment for this other person. He was severely wounded. My letters were based on his assessment of what he is able to do. All I have received in reply is a long stream of letters from the Minister concerned and finally a letter from the Department of Labour and National Service. The Government very hastily throws these lads numbers in a barrel and it very hastily commits them to an undeclared, lousy and rotten war - a war against the innocent - but when they return to this country what does the Government do for them? It is not prepared to do anything for them. The relevant sections of the National Service Act are supposed to ensure that these people return to employment with their previous employer. If the previous employer considers them to be unsuitable because of wounds that they have suffered, they can go to hell as far as the Government is concerned and they are thrown on the industrial scrap heap. I have yet another case to raise, but I will not deal with it tonight because I am awaiting a reply. 
I serve notice on the Minister for the Army, who is now on the front bench, that I want this person's pension to be restored to him as quickly as possible. To hell with the Repatriation Department's lousy, stinking treatment in suggesting that he should take his case to a tribunal. He will go to a tribunal; it will have all the medical records possible on him. He will fail at the tribunal and it will be miserable and contemptible enough to write the soldier a letter saying: 'If you are in a position to produce any further medical evidence, perhaps we will give further consideration to your claim'. Is this the way to treat the men who have returned from Vietnam? 
My speech has wiped the smile off the faces of honourable members opposite. Those smiles were evident when I commenced my speech. It should shame those honourable members into some form of action. It is not good enough for the Repatriation Department to say that it is conducting some form of inquiry and these matters can stay aside until such time as it has made a decision. God knows what decision will be made. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that a Senate committee is investigating these matters as well. 
What possible future can this lad of 25 years of age have? He has served 2 terms in the Army. He did 2 tours of Vietnam. He was wounded twice while he was there. On the latter occasion he suffered his most serious wounds. What are you going to do for this fellow? 1 want to see the Minister for the Army stand in this House - while there is still time for him . to do so - and say that he is really going to do something about this soldier. There is no future for him at all. He has not been offered any advice by any section of the Army as to what the future may hold for him. He has not been informed of his rights so far as rehabilitation is concerned although he laid for months on a sick bed. He has not, to the best of my knowledge, been advised as to whether he would be admitted to a rehabilitation centre. Obviously if he accepts the advice, which he has been informed he should not do at this point in time, to accept a discharge before his time is up he will be at the mercy of the small print contained in the regulations of the Department of Repatriation. I feel sorry for anybody in the community who is forced to fight his way through the small print and the jungle of the Repatriation Department in order to get a pension that is fair and reasonable. If the Minister is not prepared to stand in this House tonight and speak on this matter, I serve notice on him that I will take any measure that is available to me to help this young man. You talk about law and order. You talk about violence. Do you not consider that this is in itself an act of violence or a form of violence in regard to this man who laid, almost at death's door, for weeks? 
Well, through  Mr Deputy Speaker  to you,  Mr Minister  for the Army, the employer of this man at the time. He would have a better case if he had been working in a private capacity for the lousiest employer in the Commonwealth and ran the gauntlet of the court trying to get adequate and proper compensation for the wounds he suffered and the effects that they will have on his future life. As for any just claim by a serving member of the force, he is tied up with the letters which he gets from the Repatriation Department and the Department of the Army. The lad to whom I am referring is 25 years of age. I am prepared to give you this man's name on one condition and that is that you are prepared to do everything - and perhaps to move a motion in this House - in order to have this man's pension restored and to see that the Army, other Commonwealth departments and the Commonwealth Government accept full responsibility as honest people would in regard to this matter. 
One of the first observations I made when I came to this place was that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was the molecule for Moreton because I thought he had some small substance. By his expression of opinion today he has confirmed that belief in my mind. I will deal with him during the course of my speech by saying to him that in South Australia one of the greatest debacles ever is unfolding before the people. One of the greatest political wrangles in all the political history of the Liberal-Country League in that State is taking place. Only a few days ago we saw a letter to the editor in the 'Advertiser' signed by the honourable members for Angas  (Mr Giles),  Wakefield'  (Mr Kelly),  Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and Barker  (Dr Forbes)  staling that Steele Hall was no good to the Liberal Party or to the Liberal Movement. In the last few. days the honourable member for Boothby and the honourable member for Barker have been frantically telephoning  people,  who are entitled to cast a vote tomorrow to determine who will be the  President  of the LCL in South Australia, trying to blackmail them into voting for the encumbent of that office,' Ian McLachlan. He' is. a brother of the bloke who tried to touch the Federal Government the other week for the Aboriginal land in Everard Park. It' is the same family, although its members', spell their names a little differently! ' :- 
What do we find in this-.blackmail? Two of the honourable members  t.p: whom I have referred said that they .will walk out of the LCL if Mc Lachlan, is not. re-elected. The feeling within the LCL' in. South Australia is approaching . boiling, point. The conflict between the established authority of. the LCL and the so-called: progressive Liberal Movement is being waged on the battleground of party office bearers. The conflict has become so -bitter and intense that South Australia's 4 remaining Liberal members of the House . of RepresentativesMr Bert Kelly,  Mr Geoff  Giles,  Mr John  McLeay and  Dr Jim  Forbes - have become embroiled. A letter in the 'Advertiser? dated 4th August 1972 signed by the 4 members , of the House of Representatives strongly supported the current  President  of the LCL,  Mr Ian  McLachlan. They denounced  Mr Steele  Hall, the former Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament. It is now obvious .that  Senator Jessop  has been under pressure to withdraw his nomination to stand for the presidency of the State LCL. Such pressure is clearly intended to reduce the chances of defeat for  Mr McLachlan  and destroy the prospects of  Mr Hall's  pea,  Mr Perryman.  We are witnessing yet another attempt at standover tactics by Kelly, Giles, McLeay and Forbes designed to intimidate members of the LCL into supporting  Mr McLachlan.  I know for a fact that 2 of the members,  Mr Kelly  and  Mr McLeay,  are involved, and I suspect from information given to me that the other 2 are involved also. The 4 Federal members are known to be conducting an extensive telephone campaign directed at those who will be voting tomorrow in a frantic effort to save McLachlan's bacon. They are using the ploy that if Ian McLachlan were defeated they would resign from the Liberal Party and there would be mass resignations from the LCL and mass defections from both of the State Houses. 
My understanding of the rights of Federal members in the LCL is that they may exercise a right to sit on the Country Party benches in the Federal Parliament. Would the Leader of the Country Party welcome an old antagonist in the form of  Mr Bert  Kelly into his Party? Would  Mr Geoffrey  O'Halloran Giles, in a desperate attempt to hold off a Country Party challenge at the next election, seek protection from the Country Party? 'Protection' is a word well understood in that Party. How enthusiastic would  Mr Anthony  be about welcoming  Mr John  MeLeay, a member of the Adelaide establishment and a fervent supporter of the Smith regime in Rhodesia? Finally, how would he feel about the recruitment of the ineffectual member for Barker,  Dr Forbes,  who failed abjectly to sustain his rural electorate during the rural crisis? Quite clearly,  Mr Anthony  would have a bitter-sweet reaction to picking up these 4 Liberal converts. However, an increase in numbers is always welcome, and other factors must influence  Mr Anthony. 
Other members of the Federal Parliament have been refused pre-selection by the Liberal Party machine, and  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Killen  are waiting on the back benches ready to jump at the chance of getting away from the McMahon Liberal Party in a respectable way. If the balance of numbers between the coalition parties altered substantially,  Mr Anthony  would be having splendid visions of himself as Prime Minister and not as  Mr McMahon's  loyal  deputy.  These are some of the not so long term implications of the present campaign of intimidation and threats now being conducted by South Australia's Federal Liberal Party members. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  must be aware of these moves and be deeply concerned about them, as they represent a serious threat on the eve of a Federal election. 
The voter in South Australia will have no faith in a party so divided as to be incapable of clear thought and planning on its own behalf and a party that cannot be trusted in government. 
So much for the words of the honourable member for Moreton in the House a few moments ago about the great Party and the great solidarity in the Liberal Party when he himself is on record as saying not so very long ago throughout the length and breadth of this land that tha present Prime Minister ought to go. This afternoon he made some play about his attitude in regard to off-shore minerals. I say to the honourable member for Moreton: 'When you had your chance to stand up and be counted as a man of substance and a man who backs up his own words with actions, you backed out the door, as the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  did. The voting records of this House will prove that. 
The honourable member for Moreton referred to all sorts of things but I want to deal directly with the Budget. I will come back to something else later on if the clock does not beat me. 
Why does not the honourable member for Angas stand in this House and talk about things that affect his electorate? They are the things that he ought to speak about; matters such as the imposition of a wine tax by a member of this House, the right honourable member for Higgins. The honourable member for Angas will trot through his electorate next week and I hope that his electors, particularly the grape growers, will remember that it was at his suggestion and that of the right honourable member for Higgins that the wine tax went on, and that he has twiced them ever since. I hope they remember that. May I meet the honourable member for Angas in the electorate next week. 
There has been a marked deterioration in the state of the economy in the last 2 years. In July 1970, for Australia as a whole, there were 126 registered unemployed for every 100 job vacancies notified; in July 1971, immediately before the disastrous 1971 budget, there were 194 unemployed for every 100 vacancies; and in July 1972 there were 389 registered unemployed for every 100 vacancies. In Australia at present, the principal problem is to stimulate spending by consumers and investors so that production will be increased and, as a result, unemployment will fall. Production must be stimulated to such an extent that employers are not able to meet any new orders coming in by working existing staff more overtime hours - as is likely to happen if employers expect any resulting upturn in orders for their products to be only temporary. Instead they need to have the confidence to take on more employees. It is probable that we will see an increase in overtime hours worked per employee before there is a marked reduction in unemployment from its present un-Australian level. 
The 1971 Budget was largely responsible for the situation we face today. Using outdated economic ideas, the framers of that Budget tried to reduce inflation by increasing the degree of slackness in the economy and, so they thought, cutting down the rate of increase of wages and then prices. The framers of that Budget believed that there was a fixed relationship between the amount of unemployment and the degree of inflation. They believed that a certain unemployment rate was associated with a particular amount of inflation, and that if unemployment was increased there would be less inflation. What an inhumanitarian action it was to transform such a belief into government policy. 
One feature of the present depressed economy which will have serious effects for sometime to come is the fall in private investment spending on new buildings, plant and equipment which has occurred. From March 1971 to March 1972 there was an 8.4 per cent fall in total private capital spending. From June 1971 to June 1972, despite the restoration of the 20 per cent deduction from taxation allowed for new investment, private capital spending fell by 11.3 per cent. Clearly, there has been an accelerated fall in investment in new buildings, plant and equipment in recent months. Only by investing can we raise productivity and have economic growth. And as a result of these serious developments, Australian economic growth is likely to be retarded in the next few years. 
Just as the 1971 Budget created added unemployment, this year's Budget probably will not do much about reducing it. The 1972 Budget is unlikely to lead to an increase in production past the point at which employers stop working their existing staff more intensively through increasing overtime and have the confidence to start hiring added workers. The present Budget is unlikely to have much effect in expanding production because it has relied too heavily on the wrong sorts of measures. Cuts in the personal income tax of the type made are inappropriate in the present economic situation. 
The reasons are as follows: Cuts in income tax, and as a result, increases in take home pay, cannot by themselves have a direct effect on production. The reason is that income can be put to 2 broad purposes, spending and savings. At any time, of any 
Si dollar increase in take home pay, less than Si will be spent on production, since some of any increase in income will always be saved. The present income tax cuts are particularly badly designed because they increase by the smallest amount and percentage the take home pay of those income earners most likely to spend the highest percentage of any $1 of added income. On the other hand, those people least likely to spend and most likely to save - people at the top of the income scale - are precisely the ones who get the biggest increases in aftertax incomes in this rich man's' Budget. 
Consider the case of a taxpayer with a wife and 2 children who has a taxable income, after making all other deductions besides those for dependents of $5,000.  His  increase in take home pay in a year as a result of the tax cuts is about $140, or a 3.4 per cent increase in take home pay. For a taxpayer in similar circumstances but with a taxable income of $10,000 'after making other deductions, the increase in take home pay in a year would be about $295, or a 4.1 per cent increase in take home pay. For a taxpayer in similar circumstances but with a taxable income of $20,000, the annual increase in take home pay is of the order of $670, or a 5.9 per cent increase in take home pay. 
Surely a more equitable and more effective way of stimulating spending would have been to give all taxpayers an equal absolute cut in their taxation liabilities. For example, a cut of, say, $100 or $125 in each taxpayer's liability - no matter what the size of his income - would have led to a greater expansion in total community spending than the present tax cuts. The income tax cuts are likely to have a weak effect in expanding production for other reasons too. One is that income tax cuts need to be viewed as permanent or lasting by wage and salary earners if they are to be induced to go out and spend. 
It is well known that changes in income taxes which are regarded as being temporary by income earners have little effect in getting these people to add to their spending. The United States learned this lesson under  President  Johnson when a 10 per cent surcharge was added to the income tax to try to reduce spending by the American people in an attempt to moderate the US inflation of the late 1960s. There was no reduction in spending. Who in Australia in the present situation would go and commit himself to the purchase of a car or a refrigerator on time payment when it is likely that the Government will take back with the one hand what it has given with the other, if it gets back into power? The present tax cuts are an illusion. 
Another factor reinforcing uncertainty among spenders is inflation. There is ample evidence to suggest that continuing inflation has sapped the confidence of consumers and that one result has been the enormous increases in bank deposits in Australia. In these circumstances, the most probable effect of cuts in personal income tax is a reluctance to spend and a rise in deposits at savings banks and trading banks. 
The 1972 Budget might have had a marked effect on spending and production if the Government had cut sales taxes, especially those on large household items and on motor vehicles. The reason is that a cut in sales tax can be expected to lead to a fall in the price of these goods and consumers can be much more certain of the new price of the item, and hence (the value of any hire purchase contract they may enter into, than they can that an increase in takehome pay due to the present cuts in income tax will persist into the future. 
The 1972 Budget shows that, just as in 1971, the Government is again subscribing to old-fashioned economic ideas. Just as it was wrong to believe that there was a choice between a certain amount of inflation and a certain amount of unemployment - the 1971 Snedden position - so too it is wrong now to believe that cuts in personal income tax of the particular type being made are an effective means of boosting spending and stimulating production in our factories. 
To justify this statement I quote the views of 2 economists, David J. Smyth and Patrick C. McMahon - no relation, thank goodness - in the latest issue of the Australian Economic Society's officially sponsored journal, the 'Economic Record' of June 1972. They concluded, on the basis of a study of the Australian economy from 1958 to 1968, that changes in personal income tax rates - such as those in the present Budget - do not directly affect spending by consumers. 
Once again the Government has not done its homework, and, like the student who has not done his homework, the Government cannot expect to pass the endofyear exams. It is time to put an end to the stop-go budgeting that has been a feature of Government policy in recent years. It is time to embark on planned economic policies with annual budgets fitting into a comprehensive planning framework for the whole economy. 
The Federal Government, as a result of its Budget, has inflicted on the community the unemployment of some 112,000 people. One can reasonably assume that for almost each one of those unemployed there are at least 3 dependants. The Government is inflicting a poverty line on 500,000 people in this country. The Prime Minister stood in this chamber the other night and said that the Government was going to hold an inquiry into poverty. He quoted from a book recently written by Professor Henderson titled 'Poverty in Australia', but he never damn well stopped to think that if he had looked at the poverty line drawn by that gentleman he would have found that it ran at about §50 a week. Does the Prime Minister have to wait for a poverty report, which may become available some time during the next 2 years, before deciding that the unemployment benefit payable to the people to whom I have referred, the unemployed, is only a little above 50 per cent of the $50 a week that represents the poverty line? Why cannot the Government be fair dinkum with its policy? It has never been fair dinkum. The Government brought in that policy only when it thought that the electoral climate was such that it found it necessary to do so. One act that this Parliament could do within the next week or fortnight - in fact it could do it this evening if it wanted to - is to pass a measure to increase the unemployment benefits to a level set out in the book which was praised by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this House only a few nights ago. In the last 12 months the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  - and during this time he has brought in God knows how many Budgets - has been screaming to the country about the need to practise restraint. However, we find that he has been squandering the taxpayers' money on VIP flights to the extent that one would think there are no commercial flights available in this country. The Treasurer had 14 flights on VIP aircraft in 28 days. One has only to look at the figures in the document tabled in the Senate to see how many flights he had in that period and other 28-day periods. Yet the Treasurer asks us to practise restraint. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has done much the same thing, yet he stands in this House and blames the trade unions, the white collar workers, the blue collar workers and whathaveyou. He committed almost a white collar crime himself in this House when he sought the passage of a Bill to increase the salaries of a selected few in the Public Service by some 37 per cent. Where, then, is the Government's sincerity to be found? Where in this Budget is the plan to return to the work force the 100,000 people who are unemployed? Where in this Budget is the plan which will cater for those who will normally leave school at the end of this year? Where are these people to be absorbed into the work force? In addition, where is the plan that this Government has in mind to make provision for those who returned to school last year because they could not find employment? Where is there any plan, beyond an immediate plan? 
The Prime Minister said at the Cabinet meeting last week: 'Get out and sell the Budget'. Would any Minister stand here and deny that Ministers were not put into the sausage machine and were told that their point of view was not to be objective but was to be defamatory? They were told to break up the trade unions and to kick the old communist can. This has been the theme at the end of almost every Budget Speech made from the other side of the House. There has not been one constructive speech that would convey to the electors that the Government was thinking about the long term benefit to this country of development generally. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who preceded me, said something about where the money would come from. The Government will be collecting in this country $900,000m. It is not a question of where the money is coming from; it is what the hell has the Government done with the money that it has had. What has happened to the money which has run through its fingers and been wasted over the last 23 years? That is the question that the people ought to be asking themselves. They should ask: Where has the money gone? They should be told the answer dollar for dollar. Part of the answer is spelt out in terms of medical benefits to the nation. One only has to look at the huge reserves and investments that the fund organisations have. These are the sorts of questions that th people ought to be asking. 
I have been misrepresent by way of implication by the honourable member for Boothby who wishes to goodness that certain statements which he made had been made inside this chamber otherwise he would not be in the position he is in regarding the printing of literature. 
If I may,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I claim to have been misrepresented in what was said this afternoon in reference to allegations that I made against the honourable member and his 3 remaining colleagues on that side of the House from South Australia. If it is necessary to vouch for what I have said the honourable member can come to my home over the weekend and he will see the proof to support what I said in this House. The point I want to make in claiming to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby is that he implied that I had made a certain television station in Adelaide aware of something before I spoke in this House. I cannot use in this House the term that I would like to use because it is unparliamentary, but let me say this- 
You have misrepresented the facts. You wish that you had used inside the House those words which you used outside. 
Government members - No. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

-Last night in the House and for the past 2 weeks while I have been sitting here I have been subjected to a great deal of abuse and suggestions about my legitimacy by two or three members of the Liberal Party, I have had my office door in this building defaced by members of the Liberal Party. 
I have had my office door defaced by members of the Government Parties. Last night during the course of the adjournment debate the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  entered the chamber and referred to me in a most disgusting way. I was spoken to by the  Speaker  for mentioning the word that the honourable member used, soI will not repeat it tonight. On leaving the chamber after a quorum was formed the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  said: 'You are an animal'. I serve notice on Government members that in this election year I will not respond to this filthy type of attack and to the defacing of my office door in this building. I will give them no electoral gain for their lousy, mean and miserable tactics. 
I wish to speak on another matter tonight. lt concerns the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  I understand that he was told that I intended to have a little chat about him tonight, but he is not in the chamber. The matter concerns a Press statement which I made initially about the use of VIP aircraft. Recently I was absent from the chamber because I had to return to Adelaide. I was only back in the building a few short moments when I received a telephone call asking me to go and see him. I thought that this request was rather odd. In Adelaide I ase the same lift in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices as the Minister does. He does not even grunt, let alone say 'good day'. I went to his office here. He said: 'A statement has been made by you across the nation' - to use Al Grassby's phrase - 'and it could be damaging, lt could embarrass me. lt could be used against me electorally. How about making a low key statement in the House about this matter?' I perceived that the honourable gentleman must have been perturbed about the position in his electorate. I gave no firm undertaking that I would make in the House a low key statement to protect the Minister. In the local Press in his electorate he attacked me quite viciously because I had raised the matter of the use of VIP aircraft. I said that there was a commercial flight available when he used the VIP aircraft. There were charter craft available. There would have been a considerable saving to the Commonwealth if he had used a commercial flight to perform the duty that he was supposed to perform. 
I further checked information on the use of VIP aircraft by the Minister. I did that by perusing the papers that were tabled in the Senate last week. I find that he has had 13 flights. I find that on all occasions that he has used VIP aircraft when commercial flights would have been available. If he wants to have a further shot about what I had to say about him in that regard, all right. But he is worried about his elec torate. A letter appeared in one of the papers in his electorate recently. It was written by one of his constituents, a Sean Monahan. I will give a brief background of this fellow. After serving in the forces he was discharged. He was trained, under the ex-servicemen's scholarship scheme as a secondary school teacher. He taught at the Marist Brothers College at Penshurst in New South Wales. He became a lay missionary, without pay, in PapUa New Guinea for a number of years. He taught at St Augustine's Church, Brookvale, and at St Joseph's' Church, Ascotvale Since 1970 he has been at the Marist Brothers College at Mount Gambier. He has always taught under-privileged boys and girls whose parents cannot afford education fees. He gave them tuition after school and on Saturdays. He is an active member of the St Vincent de Paul Society. He is now an active member of the Prisoners Aid Society. He visits the Mount Gambier gaol and occasionally takes into his home men who are released from prison. He has a reference from every school at which he taught, with the exception of one. He directed quite an innocent letter to the local paper - the Naracoorte Herald' - which appeared in that paper on 29th July 1972. In it he made some mild criticisms of his local federal member. 
I come now to the point which caused me to rise to my feet. The honourable member is fearful of his electorate but he neglects the electorate. I have never heard him say in the House anything about the rural problems in his electorate. Not one word did he breathe about the wine growers in his electorate when that matter was before the House. He has never in any way in this House entered into debates on the wool crisis, a subject which of course concerns his electorate. He has never uttered a word about tourism in this House although he represents a South Australian electorate which has wide tourist appeal, with attractions such as Victor Harbour on the near South coast, the forests of the south east, the caves of the south east, and the Coorong, which is a unique tourist attraction. There has never been a word uttered on those subjects by the Minister. However, he has seen fit to have a letter directed to the person to whom I referred a moment ago. 
He is trying to scare and intimidate this man. The letter read: 
We have been consulted by the Honourable A. J. Forbes, M.H.R., with reference to a letter published in the Naracoorte Herald of 3rd August 1972 over your signature. 
The letter includes an allegation that at a dinner at Coonawarra 'circa 1956' our client said, 'Friend, the Australian Government wants large landholders - not peasants'. 
The inference obviously intended to be drawn is that  Dr Forbes  and the Party to which he belongs have little or no regard for the interests of small landholders and considers them to bc members of a servile class. In attributing such a statement to our client, your allegation is injurious to his character and reputation and reflects seriously upon his ability properly to fulfil the public office that he holds. 
Our client emphatically denies that he made the statement you have attributed to him - on the occasion alleged or at any other time. 
In the circumstances we have advised  Dr Forbes  that your allegation is libellous and defamatory, and as such would entitle him to recover substantial damages in an action against you. 
This i addressed to the fellow I referred to as carrying out public duties within his electorate. The letter continues: 
We are therefore instructed to demand from you a full and unqualified apology for and withdrawal of the imputations contained in the abovementioned passage of your letter, such apology to be approved by us- 
That is the hierarchy of the legal fraternity, with whom the Minister is in cahoots: and published (at your cost) in the Naracoorte Herald'. Our client also requires payment of the legal costs he has incurred herein. 
Failing receipt of your advice within fourteen days that you will sign such apology and pay such costs, our instructions are to commence proceedings against you without further notice. 
Yours faithfully. 
BARNF1ELD, NOBBS &amp; SOMERVILLE 
This letter was written on behalf of the Minister for Immigration. What a way for him to treat one of his constituents. This is a contemptible action which has been taken by the Minister. What is more contemptible is that the Minister is attempting to silence this particular individual - his own constituent - and also intends to scare the newspaper from printing anything that this person or others may write, in the hope that he can tie the paper down during the course of the coming election campaign. If any honourable member opposite thinks that I have been unfair to the Minister let him stand up here tonight and say so, but I can draw no other possible conclusion because there have been letters to the editor of the newspaper since the last election and the Minister has not responded to them in any way. Of course, this is an unusual year. We are about to go to the people and the Minister feels that he should attempt to stifle people who write letters to the editor. This is not an uncommon practice in public life. However, it is a pretty contemptible practice. The actions of lawyers who write letters of this type to scare the hell out of people and to extract from them some form of payment seems to me almost to fall within the category of unprofessional conduct. Nevertheless it goes on within the profession and I do not suppose there is much we can do about it unless we embark on a policy of general law reform. I hope that the Minister will enter this debate tonight and inform the House that he will withdraw this intimidation against this particular person. 
I desire to participate in the debate. I feel that what has happened in Canberra over the last 24 hours will do no more than blacken the name of Australia in the eyes of the Aboriginal people of this country and in the eyes of those who live on islands adjacent to Australia. I could almost hear the groan from the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  only a few days ago as he was taking off for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands to investigate a matter that was raised in this House when news was transmitted to him of the act of violence perpetrated under the cloak of an order by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  The Government must accept responsibility for the irresponsible actions of the Minister for the Interior. 
Let us take our minds back to the events that have occurred. Why were people camped on the lawns in front of Parliament House in the first place? I shall answer that question by referring to the judgment of the Full Court of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, which reads: 
These persons, encamped as mentioned, constituted what has come to be known as the Aboriginal embassy. The purpose of the embassy was to bring to the attention of members of Parliament and others, matters of complaint concerning the welfare of the Aboriginal race and in particular their land rights. Apparently no attempt was made during the period mentioned by anyone in authority to remove the tents; it is not suggested that the behaviour of embassy members or their visitors was other than orderly. 
A lot is said in this Parliament about law and order. I draw the attention of the Minister for the Interior, who is now chatting away to one of his colleagues, to the fact that that judgment in itself did not in any shape or form give the remotest indication that there was any form of disorder. Therefore, why did the Minister become so obsessed with the desire, by fair means or foul, to remove these people who were carrying on a peaceful demonstration in which they were trying to bring to the attention of members of Parliament not only their needs but also their rights? What was the attitude of the Minister during the time they were there? 
At public expense he had printed a booklet entitled 'Aboriginal land rights and the Northern Territory', which is merely a liftout from one of the most shocking speeches that has ever been made in this chamber. The Minister for the Interior may laugh. If memory serves me correctly, this booklet is a liftout at public expense of a speech delivered in this House on 23rd February of this year. 
The Minister is not ashamed of it? 
-If you do not keep the Minister for the Interior quiet,  Mr Speaker,  I might have to say something to him that is unparliamentary. Time will tell what type of person he is in this regard. For the Minister's benefit I shall quote some of the charges he made in his speech. The Minister said: 
Unfortunately there are indications that the 144,000 Australian Aborigines will be used as a political football this year. 
He went on to condemn anybody in the community - ministers of religion and so on - who dared stand up and state what his attitude was to land rights for the people who have just as much right if not more to live in this country as you and I.  Mr Speaker.  The Minister for the Interior went on to point out in the booklet what a tragedy it would be if Aborigines were to be used for political motives. During the time this booklet was being printed there was in front of this building an orderly gathering of the Aboriginal people of this country. What respect did the Minister have for them as individuals? What respect did he have for them as a part of the human race that has been denied all concepts of what the Aborigines consider to be their just and proper right in this unforgiving land of white supremacy. I hope this booklet never finds its way overseas, although it has probably already done so. The Minister went on in the booklet to draw the red herring of hypocrisy about the fact that certain Aborigines were claiming land rights and a total payment of some $6 billion. The Minister knew darned well when he put that statement in the booklet that he was misrepresenting the true and proper facts of the whole matter of Aboriginal land rights. The Minister for the Interior is not fit to be in charge of any portfolio. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  We have in this Parliament a Party that has dominated a particular portfolio, namely, the portfolio of the Interior almost since time immemorial. The Everard Park land rights case is a classic example of conflict between the Country Party and the Liberal Party. The holder of the Interior portfolio should have recognised his responsibility to care for those more unfortunate people who live in Australia. He should not have waited until the Office of Aboriginal Affairs suggested that something be done. If the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was sincere in his speech on Australia Day this year and if he was sincere in what he had to say to the Aboriginal lass that he clasped his arms around in Adelaide during a visit to that city in the winter months about the rights of Aborigines he should have challenged the making of this ordinance. The Minister for the Interior, who should be sitting at the table, has completely and utterly sabotaged any form of sincerity shown by the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister were as strong a man as he said he was on television the other night he would - being a man of decision, as he said he was - have nothing to do with the matter which is before the Parliament today. I can see that you are getting a little uneasy,  Mr Speaker.  Perhaps you feel that I am dealing too much with the subject of Aboriginal land rights. But that is the name of the game. 
The marauders at Munich at midnight last week drew blood. The marauders in front of this House at midnight last night did not draw blood, but they may well have drawn blood because of their failure to appreciate the meaning of the basic principle of land rights to the Aborigines. The Government has also failed to appreciate it. What caused the Minister for the Interior to run frantically through the corridors of Parliament House last night and to come into this chamber at midnight and bring before the House in the manner in which he did a measure which enabled the removal of people from the lawns in front of Parliament House at a time when it was raining, when snow was falling on the hills surrounding this city and when it was as cold as blazes, if I may use that term. The Minister went outside with not one thought of compassion in his mind and said: 'We can now pull down the tents'. Basic to the human race is food and shelter, but the Minister denied these people shelter last night. 
What ought to be condemned more than anything else is that Government supporters set out to take action with a feeling in their own tormented minds that they were within the law. But the law was not at their disposal when they carried out this foul act. As I see it, and as the judgment sees it, the law was not on the side of the people who carried out that act. My mind goes back to the manner in which the people were shifted from outside this House during the parliamentary recess, but enough has been said about that. I rose to say that this particular ordinance is a shocking piece of legislation from a bad Government and I want to tackle the Government on this issue in the few minutes left to me. The Government has done absolutely nothing, other than use a few words, to put into effect any form of land rights for Aborigines. No supporter of the Government has ever said that the Government would be prepared to meet the councils of these people in proper conference and under proper circumstances, to listen to them, to talk to them and to find out their requirements. In this House Ministers have done nothing, other than to reply to one or two questions from this side of the House, to indicate the land rights position in relation to Everard Park. The documents relating to the proposed acquisition of that property on behalf of Aborigines have not been tabled. Some 3 or  4  weeks have elapsed since questions were put to the Prime Minister about the matter. The Minister for the Interior may well be looking at this matter. I suggest that if he were to tell the true story he would enlighten the interested public. 
This ordinance will be condemned by every decent thinking person in this country. It might interest honourable members opposite to learn that in door knocking in my electorate I have found to my surprise that the treatment of Aborigines and the denial of their land rights by this Government rank as one of the main issues, at least in the minds of the womenfolk. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for pulling me up and saying that I have been given some latitude. Having quoted to you from page 108 I thought that you would feel that the whole issue was Aboriginal land rights. 
I do not think  Mr Speaker  is giving me a rotten go.  His  own colleagues have made his position in the House untenable. I agree that he is in a difficult position in a debate such as this one. Probably you,  Mr Speaker,  would feel somewhat ashamed to preside over this House at this time of the afternoon when honourable members on both sides of the chamber are discussing this ordinance. What is the Minister's next step to be? If I had the time in an electoral campaign I would cart this ordinance right through the electorate of the Minister for the Interior. I would do everything possible to bring about the defeat of a person who in this place has deliberated against the people he is elected to represent in his constituency and to administer through his portfolio. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who has charge of the passage of this measure, be prepared to have a proper look at Aboriginal land rights and have the subject fully debated? Will he have the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  brought forward on the notice paper so that we can debate it fully? Will he give members on both sides of the chamber an opportunity to put before the House the opinions of the Aboriginal councils and of the eminent and prominent church leaders throughout the country? Will he allow a full and open debate on this question, not . inhibited as is this debate? If ever a person deserved the condemnation of honourable members, including his own colleagues and the parliamentarians from other countries who are now meeting in Canberra, it is the Minister for the Interior. He deserves condemnation for the manner in which he has sought, to introduce this ordinance in order that he may achieve some peace of mind for himself. 
If this is the way that a so-called responsible Minister of this Government accepts a challenge, I feel sorry for the people who come within the administration of his portfolio. It is a mean and lousy policy, lt is contemptible and deserves the condemnation of this House. I hope that enough honourable members opposite will abstain from voting or will not vote with their Party on this issue to enable the measure to be defeated. The Minister deserves to be censured by his own colleagues and they ought to withhold their support from this measure. 
I hope that the provisions in this legislation will quickly be recognised by those organisations which have a great amount of work to do. I conclude on the note that it is not quite true to say in this place this afternoon - the Government brought in the relevant legislation in 1954, from memory - that nothing has been done in providing accommodation for the aged. I think the Minister will readily agree, because he visits these homes not only within my electorate but electorates throughout the Commonwealth, that a very great amount of work has been done by church and voluntary organisations over the years in regard to elderly people. Some of these organisations are very large, catering for the very infirm down to those people who merely want accommodation in their declining years and who are still quite active and are not as unfortunate as others in the community. I regret that time does not permit me to say anything more because I promised the Minister that I would take only 5 minutes. I hope that this Government, for the short time that it will remain in office, will continue to recognise its responsibilities in regard to this matter. 
May I quote from a certain left-wing radical newspaper - an agricultural document which is circulated in the country areas of South Australia, particularly in the areas represented by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who has just resumed his seat? The article is written by somebody under the name of The Magpie. Of course, the honourable member knows who The Magpie is. He knows that he served in the Legislative Council of South Australia. If the honourable member for Angas does not remember that, he wil know that the fellow who wrote this article under the name of The Magpie is a close relative of one of his colleagues. I shall now quote from this paper. It states: 
Finally did you read the following comment made by  Mr Anthony?  'Probably the most insulting remark of all made by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to currency appreciation was that tariffs were too high and should be reduced'. 
I wonder how CP candidates are going to explain to the fenner voters why the hero of their party insults so easy? Surely if he was the farmers' friend' he should be agreeing with  Mr Whitlam? 
I do not propose to talk about what the honourable member for Angas has spoken of tonight. I will enter into debate with him on the basis of industrial relations because the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  is at the table at the moment. During the course of this week the Government attempted to introduce a type of debate, if you could refer to it in that way, under the heading of a Ministerial statement by none other than the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who is praying to be re-elected. That reminds me of a story,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  On one occasion a member in this House decided to send one of the members of his Party into Victoria to sound out the Catholic vote prior to a by-election. When that chap came back to Canberra he said to him: How did we go?' The reply was: 'Most certainly they are going to pray for you but they are damn well not going to vote for you.' That may well be the case so far as the Prime Minister is concerned. 
Turning now to the question of a 35-hour working week and industrial relations and, if you really would like a debate in this House, the matter of the dispute on Kangaroo Island, 10 minutes would not suffice to expose the rotten hand of both the Federal and the State oppositions in prolonging that dispute in the lousy political interests of the 2 warring factions within the Liberal Party in South Australia. The honourable member for Angas referred a short time ago to the political complexion of the South Australian Government. He could not refer to the political complexion of the anti-Labor Opposition in South Australia because it represents 2 quite wide differences of opinion, neither of them knowing where they are going. Steele Hall stood up in the State House one day and said that he had decided to resign as Leader of the Opposition over a non-issue. The South Australian Premier decided: 'This isn't bad, is it? We'll give that person who has just resigned an office to himself. We'll give him a couple of female employees and 4 telephones.' All that Steele Hall had to do was sit there and try to grab the 4 telephones in both hands. The split widened and the 4 telephones are still there. So much for the political complexion of the State Opposition in South Australia. 
Returning again to the question of industrial relations, the dispute to which the honourable member for Angas referred was prolonged. Let me ask the honourable member: Who got the $7,000 or $11,000 or $9,000? People of his political complexion who put the money up for one of the lousiest industrial intrigues that this country has seen since almost the turn of the century got the money. And Woolley, the person concerned, was being pushed to repay the money that came from the hip pockets of the honourable member's colleagues. He knows that well. How much the honourable member put in I do not know; that is his business. Let us have that straight. Why did not the honourable member tell this House how many members from Kangaroo Island seeking political endorsement, either for the Liberal-Country League or the Liberal Movement, had sent representations to Canberra - the Minister will deny this - to talk to their opposite numbers in this place about how far the dispute should be carried? Did not the oil industry dispute have shadows of the same type of confrontation? What about the agreement,  Mr Minister,  in your nice apricot coloured shirt and your white tie? You almost committed white collar crime by the manner in which you carried on prior to last Christmas, did you not? If not you, the officers of your Department or somebody that you had stooged along. Maybe you did a little bit of ballot rigging yourself in your day in order to get into this place. You locked out delegates who cast votes in regard to your preselection for this place. We can all be dirty if we want to,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
He knows. Let him get up next week on the adjournment. He knows that he has done it. He knows that his mate, or his previous mate, in Adelaide, Steele Hall, is now saying to the Liberal Party in South Australia: 'Listen, our ballots have been so crook for so long that I insist that we go to the local returning officer for future ballots within the Liberal Party'. I do not know why he did not say that the Liberals ought to have court controlled ballots, that being the phrase which the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is at the table, has so often been parroting. 
Let me come back to the fact that the Minister or someone on his behalf attempted to sabotage the agreement between the maritime industry and the employers. The Minister knows that this is true. I went to the Minister's office one day at the invitation of an officer of his Department. The Minister can deny that, if he will. I think that the Minister was sitting somewhere in that office and probably heard the conversation that took place. I will not name the officer concerned. However, he attempted to get me to say to certain areas in the maritime industry: 'Look, the Government is going to take you on*. Does the Minister remember this? The Minister sits at the table and will not raise his head. He knows that this is true. The Minister's role in the field of industrial relations has been absolutely and extremely shocking. 
In the few minutes left to me I would like to comment on the speech that the honourable member for Angas made about inflation. Inflation effects the lower wage earners and the battlers more than it affects anyone else in the community. Inflation in this country is of the Government's own making. The Government is guilty as hell and its supporters know it. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has admitted this as has the Prime Minister whose admission is now on the record book in a number of places in this country. Yet the honourable member for Angas has come along and talked about devaluation, revaluation - call it what you like. However, someone else will call the tune on this subject as others have called the tune in the past for the Government. This fact was evident even in the television programme 'Frost Over Australia' in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  appeared the other night. 
The Government has created this situation, it has created a monster. Supporters of the Government have come into this House as absolute hypocrites. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Sturt moderate some of his comments. 
Well, I do not knowperhaps they are not hypocrites. Have they actually conned themselves into believing that they stand for a policy of full employment? I think they have. I thank you for correcting me,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; they are not hypocrites. They believe they are right in this when actually they are so far wrong that it does not matter. The Government has subjected half a million people in this country to living below the poverty line. If the Prime Minister is fair dinkum and has any courage at ali in accepting Professor Henderson as the head of his inquiry into poverty, having read Professor Henderson's book and having noted that the take home pay of a little over $50 constitutes the poverty line, why does not he bring in a measure to lift over half a million people, including 100,000 unemployed persons and their dependants, above the poverty line? The amount of the unemployment benefit is well below the poverty line. The Government has the effrontery to say that the Budget provides for fares to be paid to people who travel to look for work. This is not so. A person receives payment for fares only if he has not been able to find a job, and the fare provided is the amount required for his transport home. This is what is spelt our in the fine print as I see it. 
You have gone crook on me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I used the word 'hypocrite'. I thank you for correcting me because they are not hypocrites; they are just misguided, misled, foolish men. The Ministers who sit on the front bench should be referred to as the manipulators. They have nothing to learn from the Pentagon across the Pacific in giving out information about what happens in Viet nam. They use the same type of gobbledegook but they will not put it over the electors this time. The people of Australia have made up their minds and the Government is gone for sure. I was glad to see some honourable members opposite trotting into the Opposition Party room tonight to see what it is like. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like first to make some reference to a previous  speaker  in this debate who is now absent from the chamber. I understand that he is the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Dobie).  He made great play and went on with a great deal of criticism about Opposition members not entering this debate. In fact, up to this time members of the Opposition have matched speakers from the other side of the House and, in fact, most members on this side of the House have spoken for longer than Government supporters, taking into consideration the amount of time that has been used of the 20 minutes available to each honourable member. 
It is just as well the honourable member for Mallee has been knighted. The silent knight is now leaving the chamber. 
Of course there is not,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  The honourable member for Mallee has been here long enough to know that, without waiting for you to rule on it. The fact is that Opposition members have spoken in this debate for just as long as have honourable members opposite. However, that is not the matter on which I want to take issue with the honourable member for Cook. Let us cast our minds back to what occurred in this House on this very same matter in April 1970. An amendment was moved by the Australian Labor Party. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is sitting at the table may remember this. I did not look up his remarks on the matter as recorded in Hansard because he probably did not know at that time he would be occupying the position he occupies today. The amendment was moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on behalf the Opposition and, in part, stated: 
. whilst welcoming the extended scope for grants offered by the Bill, the House is of opinion - 
that the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act. 
The Opposition was ridiculed for moving that amendment in 1970. I just want to confine my reference to what was said by the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister,  Mr Dobie,  as recorded in Hansard of 15th April 1970. During the course of his speech he said: 
Just a minute, Tom. 
He was referring to  Mr Uren.  He continued: 
Time does not permit me to develop any thesis on this subject. Nobody would deny that credit unions are big business or that they will become even bigger in the near future, but I would reject out of hand the amendment that the Opposition has put forward. 
So much for the hypocrisy of the honourable member for Cook. I only wish that he were in the chamber; I would have a little more to say on the observations which he made. One gets sick and tired of sitting in this chamber- 
If I am incorrect in saying a particular honourable member is hypocritical, because the amendment was opposed by all Government supporters I will say that they are all hypocrites in regard to this matter. As I read it in Hansard- 
Oh sit down. I will withdraw the darned thing if it is going to hurt your hide so much. 
I had withdrawn for the benefit of the woeful member for Mallee who sits here day after day. 
I will withdraw that also. For God's sake, listen to the honourable member for Mallee parroting alongside me while I am endeavouring to make a contribution in this place. I have listened to Government supporters congratulating the Minister on his fine and able efforts in regard to this Bill. The Opposition is not opposing the Bill but one would think that we were to hear Government supporters speaking on this measure. 
However, I join issue on the fact that the very measure on which honourable members opposite have been saying that the Minister for Housing should be congratulated was proposed in an amendment moved by the Opposition in April 1970. Is it any wonder that I used the term that I used a while ago that seems to have in some way been offensive to the ears of honourable members on the Government side? Another thing that the honourable member for Cook said - I understand that he is a banker of some note - was that the Commonwealth had to play second fiddle to the States. What a lot of utter rubbish. The fact is that the name of the housing game is finance and who plays second fiddle to whom in this field? Do the States have the right to raise the revenue necessary to house the people within their boundaries? Are not the State governments, because of the restrictions placed upon them by the Constitution, forced to go overseas to speculators and to areas of finance that are costly even on the standard that this Government has imposed on the community? In South Australia we see such schemes as West Lakes. In an endeavour to house the people and to create new suburbs, the South Australian Government has had to go overseas to obtain finance from these speculators or burglars. One can use any term one likes to describe their financial activities, without discrediting them. Their interest rates and the whole structure of their transactions impose tremendous burdens on the young people of today. Is it any wonder that one becomes a little annoyed when one continually hears it said that the Government ought to be congratulated? 
Last night's Sydney 'Daily Mirror' contains a headline: 'Tougher than ever to buy a house. Cost up 66 per cent by 1980.' And 1980 is not far away. What provisions has the Government placed before this House over the last 23 years to stop the ever-increasing spiral of costs and to arrest the tremendous burden being imposed on our children and on our children's children? Not one piece of constructive legislation has been passed by this place to prevent the speculators from imposing their will and their demands - almost criminal as they are - upon the young people who are in search of a home today. If we have nothing to worry about, why does not any honourable member on the Government side stand in this place and say to me that the high rise development in Melbourne, 36 storeys high, to house women and children in little boxes is the desire of the people who inhabit them? 1 am quite certain that it is not their desire. They are being forced into this type of accommodation and this type of environment because the Government, in bringing forward a homes savings scheme, does not recognise and does not even commence to understand the basic necessity of arresting this tremendous burden on the young people today. 
One can go through half of my electorate which are not old established areas - through such places as Campbelltown Athelstone, Tea Tree Gully and Rostrevor - and find that there is an everincreasing spiral of land costs. Do not suggest, 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, that I am not speaking to the Bill. The question of land is basic. It is one of the basic necessities of human life to provide shelter. I remind honourable members and the Minister for Housing of that basic fact. The Bill before the House today mentions land. While members of the Government were down in the concrete vaults of the nation hammering out the nation's Budget in this election year a national survey was carried out. The whole of the electorate should take note of the fact that the last time the Government did anything in relation to this matter was also in an election year. Honourable members opposite wonder why we on this side of the House say that they want to put out their hands so that people will, mistakenly, believe that they are giving them a golden handshake. But the Government is doing nothing about the basic necessities to cure the ills. What has it done, even in this city of Canberra and beyond, to stop speculators from doubling their money by sitting on undeveloped land? What has been done by this Commonwealth Parliament to ensure that adequate finance is made available to the States to arrest the ever-increasing cost of land? I ask the Minister what he or his predecessors in this place have done to hold at rural values those areas of land on the fringes of every city in Australia. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  may bash his hand as much as he likes but it will not make any difference. Let him get up this afternoon and repudiate what I have said about this Government not wanting to make grants tothe States to stabilise land prices in the interests of the young people in this community. I feel sorry for them today when 1 consider the tremendous burden and the tremendous amount of their total earning capacity over their working lives that they have to pay in exorbitant interest rates, exorbitant land costs and exorbitant costs within the industry. The number of people operating in the home building industry throughout the cities of Australia today has decreased considerably. The attitude of get bigger or get out' has prevailed for a number of years, and this Government has done nothing about it. I wish I had time to go through the balance sheets and the profits made by some of the organisations which are tied up in manufacturing, in brokerage companies, in land speculation, with builders, with land agents and with every aspect of the industry, and which will con from the unsuspecting younger couples their money for a quite substantial part of their working lives. 
What has the Government done and what does it intend to do? I can only conclude from the debate today, from the Budget Speech and from the speech that was made in this House last night - if one can call it a speech - in relation to land costs, that it will do nothing. The Government has no thought of saying to the State governments: 'Look, here is a grant which will permit you to have some control and some say over the development costs of adjacent city and urban areas of land'. The farmers who sat on that land for 2 generations were told that they could be offered millions of dollars for it. This is happening in South Australia today, in the electorates of Barker and Angas, because the proposed development of a new town on the Murray. It is only the State Government, with its meagre financial resources, that is prepared to hammer out a policy for South Australia that will prevent the people on this land from being offered millions of dollars overnight for a few lousy acres. Honourable members opposite have seen the headlines. Does the message not trickle down to them that offers are being made amounting to millions of dollars for 200, 300 and 400-acre parcels of land for socalled developmental purposes and that poor unfortunates will go in there and live in inadequate houses on tiny areas of land? They are the ones who have to bear the burden. 
A headline in the 'Australian' yesterday read: 'House; up by 66 per cent'. The article says that that does not take into considerationthe ever-increasing spiral of land costs. 1 come back to the question of land all the time because this is the thing that is important. How many speculators are there around Australia? Has the Government carried out any research on this matter? Are honourable members opposite able to say to this Parliament - as responsible individuals in the community, as socalled responsibly elected members of a governmentin office - that there are vast areas of land in Western Australia, South Australia, and Sydney where millionaires have been created overnight who have not placed one road in those areas, who have not dug one trench for sewerage services, who have not done one thing- 
I will come back to the Bill. It makes some reference to land. If research has been done by the Department of Housing, nobody on the other side of the House has had the courage, the honesty or the integrity to include it in the measure that is now before the House. We are talking about homes savings grants. That is why I am on my feet today. That is why I am attacking the Government today. If I am wrong, let any one of a dozen honourable members say something about it. The Government knows that it has let the speculators have the land. Let me refer to areas in Western Australia on comparatively level ground. Somebody sits in an office and has an idea that the area may develop in 3, 4 or 5 years or even less. He goes out and offers the rural producer a fabulous sum for it. The farmer moves out and the speculator just sits on the land and waits for the sprawl to continue. Then he forms a company, the land changes hands and he becomes a millionaire. He has not produced anything. He has done nothing. That is the sort of person to whom we on this side of the House are opposed. We undertake to eradicate their so-called business practices in the interests of the young people. We on this side of the House express concern on that matter. We express concern for the people who have to buy a home. We express concern for the young married couples who are being forced to live in flats. They do not want to live in them. They would sooner own their own homes. They have not been given any incentive to do so by the Government. 
The measure now before the House is the Homes Savings Grants Bill. It is totally inadequate. It does not scratch the surface of the problem. In the next 8 years housing costs will rise by 66 per cent. When the Government framed its Budget it knew all about this cost increase and when it framed the legislation that is now before the House it knew all about it. When the Prime 
Minister  (Mr McMahon)  came into this House last night armed with a statement on policy - if one could call it that - on urban and regional development he knew all about this. What did we hear from the Prime Minister last night? Just a babble of words. There was not one skerrick of a plan in what he had to say. All that has happened on the question of housing as far as the young people of Australia are concerned is that there has been an increase in the cost of houses. 
I have brought 2 or 3 cases to the attention of the Minister for Housing of people being denied the benefits of this legislation because a lot of work has been done on a home and the permissible value has been exceeded. This matter was also mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I hope that the Minister will take some note of what I have had to say. I would also point out to anybody who cares to listen that the Government's cut-off point with regard to the benefits contained in this measure is the night that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  introduced his Budget. Therefore those poor unfortunates who are having construction problems at the moment will not derive any benefit from this so-called large increase. I hope that the Minister will consider the fact that he ought to extend the provisions of this Bill until such time as homes are completed that were commenced a few weeks, a few days or in some instances a few hours before the night of the Budget Speech. I conclude on that note. I make no apologies for yelling at and condemning the Government on this measure; it ought to be condemned forever. 
I desire to raise a subject which was raised this morning by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in the form of a question that he directed to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  A problem has arisen in South Australia because certain Commonwealth moneys are no longer available to that State to the same extent as they were 12 months or perhaps 2 years ago. I refer to the grants to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis. It would appear that South Australia was very quick to introduce its eradication programme and, as a result, was able to secure from the Commonwealth S200.000 in excess of the sum granted on a SI for $1 basis. South Australia put that money to good use inasmuch as it made no charge on cattle producers for the vaccine it made available to them. 
In 1972, at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting, the Commonwealth reaffirmed its policy of providing assistance on a Sl for $1 basis but said that it would discontinue making finance available to South Australia beyond the $1 for SI basis. That resulted in the South Australian Government having to cease giving free vaccine to the cattle industry. It was forced to impose a charge of about 40c to 50c a vaccination. Over the last 6 months the United States of America has become more stringent with regard to the conditions it places on the importation into that country of Australian beef, particularly cattle that have not been tested for tuberculosis. This has placed the South Australian Government in a most invidious position. Because of the restricted finance available to it, South Australia has had to give top priority to the eradication of tuberculosis. It is expected that a tuberculosis eradication programme will be effectively completed in approximately 2 years. All resources will then be directed towards the eradication of brucellosis. I think the Minister for Primary Industry will agree with me when I say that during the last year the South Australian Government has received assistance in excess of that provided on a Sl for $1 basis for the eradication of both of these cattle diseases. I think the Minister will also agree that this was made possible because South Australia responded more quickly in implementing the scheme than did some of the eastern States. I think the Minister will further recognise that this was achieved because the money not being expended by the other States was then made available to South Australia. 
Because South Australia will now receive only the Sl for SI grants a very serious position has arisen. The situation has to be viewed against the background of the stringent conditions imposed by the United States with regard to the importation of Australian beef. I think the Minister should take into consideration the fact that because South Australia has had its revenue reduced by some $200,000 a charge upon the producers in that industry will have to be continued. The Minister should regard this matter from a national marketing point of view as being most serious indeed. He will concede, I am sure, that the Commonwealth Government has a responsibility, because of the marketing situation generally, to review the whole financial structure to ensure that the additional revenue that has been available to South Australia in the past is 07ce again available to it. South Australia should not suffer just because the other States are now using the whole of the revenue afforded to them by the Commonwealth Government for the eradication of those 2 diseases. Honourable members who have more knowledge than I of those 2 cattle diseases will agree that the treatment of brucellosis is complementary to the eradication of tuberculosis. 
Briefly, I am on my feet tonight because the reduced Commonwealth contribution for the eradication of tuberculosis has forced South Australia to impose a charge on the producers. There could be a retardation of the programme which has been set at a very high standard in South Australia if the Minister does not agree to take up this matter with the Government. 1 think he should discuss it Wit his colleagues from South Australia, I refer particularly to the honourable member for Angas who raised the question this morning. I am not using the matter as a political football. It is too serious for that. National marketing is involved. 
I am not. I do get sick and tired when I hear a lot of claptrap from honourable members opposite. I am merely paying a compliment to the honourable member for Angas for raising the matter this morning. I did not want to be blunt about this matter but I must say that my hope is that politics will not enter into it, whether in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas or in my electorate. There are no cows in my electorate, as the honourable member knows, except perhaps some 2-Iegged ones. This matter also affects the electorates of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  I am quite certain that those 2 gentlemen would not want to play politics in this matter. Government supporters may want to criticise the South Australian Government. That is their right. Whether they do so will be determined by them, I hope fairly. A continuing process in South Australia has been aimed towards the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis in the cattle industry in order to meet national marketing requirements and the standards of the countries to which we export meat. Tt is a sorry state of affairs when a paltry sum of $200,000 is needed to avoid stepping back the programme at considerable risk to the producers, firstly through delay in the eradication of the disease, and, secondly, through the risk that their beef will be rejected for export to the United States. As has already been said, the United States imports a great quantity of Australian beef. In addition to that there are the problems of abattoirs and so on. The 2 diseases themselves represent some danger. As I have already mentioned they can be transmitted to human beings. That point is perhaps more important than any other aspect that has been raised. My understanding of brucellosis is that it affects female cattle and in turn can be transmitted through milk and dairy products generally to people who consume those products. I think a very large percentage of the population of Australia does consume dairy products. 
That is so. It will hit the poor unfortunate fellow who is looking for a livelihood in the industry. I would be very pleased indeed if other honourable members from South Australia would support this proposal and use any influence they can bring to bear on the Minister to ensure that the additional finance is restored to South Australia. It may be felt that South Australia has got beyond its entitlement in the strict sense of the $1 for $1 basis. 
I have already said that South Australia was able to put this money to extremely good use to step up the necessary programme to eradicate these diseases within the industry. I hope that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is at the table, will convey this request to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on the basis put forward tonight. There is an extremely urgent need to restore to South Australia the amount equivalent to that it has lost because of adoption of the restricting $1 for $1 basis as the other States have caught up with their own particular programmes. 
I desire to direct a question to the Prime Minister. I preface my question by saying that the Prime Minister will be aware of 2 previous questions directed to him regarding the Everard Park situation. Hansard is full of matters which the Prime Minister is looking at and considering and to which he may give a reply. I ask my question because of the reply the Prime Minister gave me on 17th August. Will he table all the relevant documents on the Everard Park transaction? Will he have the matter made the subject of a full report to this House so that a debate may ensue, in conformity with the reply he gave me on 17th August this year? 
We have just listened to a speech giving views quite the opposite of what has been enunciated by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  said that our early settlers came here some hundreds of years ago free and seeking freedom. If he had read anything of Australian history he would know that they came in stinking hulks, bound in chains, and were thrashed, and evidence of this is still available for the honourable member to see if he cares to visit Sydney. 
It is all right for the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to interject in a debate such as this. I looked at last year's Hansard to see what he said in this debate last year and I suggest that he look at what he said then and consider himself in front of a mirror for the damned fool he made of himself on that occasion. No doubt he will rise to do the same tonight. It is no use standing in this chamber in  1972,  on the threshold of  1973,  harping and parroting: 'The post-war years demanded that we have an expanding numbers game of migration'. It is no damned good, if I may use that expression, anybody heaping congratulations upon the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  who is not present with us tonight, because he initiated this vast scheme. And it is no use the honourable member for McPherson, in the short time that he has left in this chamber, saying that we are bringing in underprivileged people. Was not that the basis of the immigration policies of  1945  and  1946?  Did we not offer sanctuary not only to people who were underprivileged but who had no privileges at all? Honourable members opposite do not know what they are talking about in that regard. But one cannot refer to  1973  as a post-war year unless one is referring to our involvement in Vietnam. It is not practicable to adopt a  1945-46  attitude in  1973.  Today there is no necessity to embark upon a policy such as that enunciated by the Treasurer a few weeks ago to increase the number of immigrants coming into Australia. Probably, of the immigrants who come here, a greater percentage will be lost than has been lost in the last  2  years. The Government is wasting the financial resources of the country by bringing immigrants here when it knows damn well that almost one-third will return to their own country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to moderate his language. 
I hardly think that I was swearing. But the Government knows darn well that  30,000  immigrants will go back to their own country. It is no good the Minister worrying about retaining the seat of Barker. If he picks up any migrant paper that has been published in this country, particularly in the last few weeks and reads the public opinion polls that have been taken amongst immigrants he will find that  80  per cent of them say that the Government ought to be sacked. Let him remember that. 
Only a few days ago in this House we witnessed the attitude of another Minister as expressed through the Minister for Immigration who is the Acting Minister for Health and former Minister for the Army and God knows what else. The Government hides the figures for immigration unemployment. It should look at the poverty surveys and see some of the areas of real poverty. It should make itself aware of the incidence of poverty in some of the great cities of this country. 
The great majority of immigrants find themselves in the automobile industry, assembling vehicles for General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd and Ford Motor Co. of Aust. Ltd. What a great future for them! They are on such low wages that the Minister had to provide a subsidised medical scheme for them. Then he did not have the courage to advertise among the immigrants that the scheme was available to them. The Government cannot regard immigration in  1973  as it did in  1953.  It cannot afford to continue to fetch the number of people to this country that it used to bring here if it considers the views of the people who support it. The Chamber of Manufactures in Victoria is one organisation that supports - or used to support - the Government. Perhaps that organisation has now given the Government away. However, it has told the Government, as a result of a survey of expectations of employment for the next  5  years that there will be half a million unemployed in this country. Five years is not a very long time to the newcomer to this country who might possibly be able to get his feet off the ground in that time and get a mortgage around his neck in order to start buying a home. The minimum figure is half a million. Multiply that by 3 and you will probably have the number of people who will be involved. 
The Government has not engaged in any planning for educational needs as far as building is concerned. Housing is another matter in which no planning has taken place. Despite an initial expenditure of $ 15m on immigrant education the scheme is a shambles and a damn shame. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
What is the position of schools in my electorate where 70 per cent of the children are immigrants? I say to honourable members opposite that this is no laughing matter. Let them go into the schools there. When the Minister replies to this debate, let him tell honourable members how many teachers have been put in there in order to overcome the language problems initially. Can the Minister tell the House whether he has accepted the suggestion I made to his predecessor that provision ought to be made in at least 2 schools in that area for a pre-school crash course in English over a period of 12 months? A child who goes to a school like this and is stuck with the problem of a language difficulty for the first 2 or 3 years at school is disadvantaged for the whole of his life. 
Do honourable members know what the response was to my suggestion? A teacher was put in that school with 3 weeks training. Whether that person had taught previously is open to question. The Government has to come down to the human areas of this problem. It has to come down to the areas that affect individual people, not only the broad masses of people who are at the whim of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla. I say to the Minister also that no industry has been set up in Whyalla for the employment of females. Whyalla consists mostly of a shipbuilding yard, and the Government has done nothing to overcome this problem of female employment. 
The Minister should look at some of the reports that are compiled from time to time as a result of seminars and congresses that are held in this city. They used to be held at the rate of one every 12 months or 2 years. The Minister should have a look at the recommendations at committee level which resulted from discussions that went on all week. The Minister should stand in this chamber in the next hour and acquaint us with one recommendation of that committee that this Government in fact has implemented. Is it any wonder that the Government cries to the Opposition: 'Tell us about your policy. Tell us whether you will open the flood gates.' It is a lot of rot. I hope the Minister will tell me about the human problems within the migrant field. I hope he will tell me how he stopped the speculators who were rampant in the United Kingdom and who were conning people to come here with the promise of a job but requiring them firstly to sign a contract to purchase 'a home. Does the Government really tell the English migrant the real money value of wages in Australia for a fitter and turner, a mechanic, a bricklayer or a carpenter? The Government has not done that. It has been completely dishonest in its approach to people who have been conned into coming here. 
Is it any wonder that 30 per cent of migrants return to their home country? Those migrants who want to go back but cannot go back suffer in poverty, and the Government knows it. If it does not know it, all I suggest is that it has been so completely dominated by executive control over the last 15 or 20 years that it has turned its back completely on the problems of the people it is supposed to represent. What I say is true. I invite the Minister or any Government supporter, once the Prime Minister decides when we should have the election, to trot into my electorate and I will tell him some facts. The Government has done nothing in the way of migrant planning in the past or the present. While unemployment remains at the present levels I believe that every British newspaper should publish the facts so that there is no response to the Government's recruitment campaign in the United Kingdom for people to come out here and go onto unemployment relief, such as it is. 
I understand from what was said by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that a man who has no assets other than a weekly income of, say, approximately $100, his wife who is over 60 years of age will possibly become eligible under the changed circumstances to some form of pension. Is that so? 
The Minister indicates that that is so. I want to make it abundantly clear that I have no quarrel with that. We on this side of the House have not opposed it. But the point that strikes me - this is a matter which comes within the portfolio of the Minister - is that a married man who is unemployed and getting just under $30 a week is expected to keep himself and his wife. This Government has to give consideration to making grants to the States in order to lift that benefit as well as the minimum wage in the States which is down to about $51. This is a glaring example of failure to give justice in the social welfare field. I repeat that we are not opposed in any way to the increased pensions but steps must be taken to eliminate the poverty faced by those on the minimum wage in every State of the Commonwealth. If it is good enough for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to give $15m to save the hide of the New South Wales Premier, then it should be good enough for the people who hold the purse strings of this country to make massive grants to the States to enable salary and wage earners to live above the poverty line. 
From a radio broadcast I listened to the other morning, I understand that there are some 40 Bills yet to come before this House. I understand further as a result of that broadcast that the Government is in a somewhat embarrassing position because of delays in the office of the Parliamentary Counsel. Can the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  inform the House whether the Government is experiencing difficulty in completing its legislative programme? To my mind, the Government has never had a legislative programme since I have been in this place, although it has been referred to as such. Can the House be advised as to the Government's legislative programme between now and the date on which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will announce the date of the election? 
Personally, I do not give a continental when he announces the election date; it does not worry me one iota. I am well geared for the election and I suppose that most other honourable members on this side of the House are similarly prepared. But if the Prime Minister wants to play a one man band in regard to when he announces the date of the election- 
I wish to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  about the takeover bid for Clarkson Ltd. I understand that there will be a board meeting of Clarkson Ltd, the company concerned. As a result of a similar type of takeover, which was referred to by the honourable member for Kingston, almost all the staff of Colton Palmer and Preston were sacked. From observation the staff of COX.Foys was reduced by about 75 per cent. Some employees of Clarkson Ltd have worked for that company for periods ranging from 15 to 40 years and they could well become redundant. Honourable members may recall that this is one aspect that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  mentioned in his statement to the House only the other evening. When a man aged 55 years has worked with a company for over 30 years there is not much possibility of retraining him under the scheme referred to from time to time by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch). 
I have given an undertaking to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who is now at the table, that I will be brief. I regret that my time is short; otherwise 1 would have dealt with the matter of the takeover of Clarkson Ltd in greater detail. I wish to deal with one other matter that is concerning me because the whole of the shipbuilding industry is being examined at the moment. By now we should have received a Tariff Board Report on its inquiry into the shipbuilding industry but we have not had it. We have not had one whisper from anybody on the Government side about a feasibility study that is proceeding in the Westernport Bay area. It concerns the construction of a giant complex including facilities for shipbuilding, ship repair, dry docking and so on. Not one word has been said about it. The document I hold in my hand relate"! to a feasibility study undertaken by YRD of Australia, which is associated with a foreign owned company. I do not see how such a document would have escaped the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
Why did he not inform the House of this document? Is this one reason why the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding has been delayed? According to the document I hold the danger exists that almost every shipyard in Australia - including Evans Deakin, Whyalla Shipyard and Adelaide Ship Construction - will go to the wall. Members of the Country Part like to talk about decentralisation. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is a member of the Country Party. Where then is the sincerity? 
I challenge the Minister for Trade and Industry to consult his colleague on this matter and make a statement to the House. I would like him to say whether a feasibility study for such a project has been undertaken. What is the attitude of the Government if the company decides to proceed with the project? Where does it lead for thousands of people in Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia who would most certainly be affected? Ought not this matter be looked at by the Gov ernment in the interests of the employment of people, bearing in mind statements that have been made by the Minister for Trade and Industry and belatedly by the Prime Minister about decentralisation and movement away from the cities and outer suburban areas. I am reminded, however, that he referred to Tennant Creek as an outer urban area. That is his concept of cities and suburbs, I suppose. When the estimates of the Department for Shipping and Transport are being debated I will deal more fully with the document I now hold. I would be amazed if somebody in the Department has not told the Minister or the Government about this document. Why has he kept it under wraps? 
 I was hoping that tonight the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  would be present in the chamber. Unfortunately, he is not. That shall not deter me from having a little chat about the honourable gentleman. Last week in this House we were treated to a not so. learned dissertation from the honourable . member for Boothby on . the alleged corruption of the South Australian Government for using the advertising agency, HansenRubensohnMcCann Erickson Pty Ltd. The honourable gentleman said, that it was wrong for the South Australian Government to use the same agency as that used by the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. He claimed that it was equally wrong to use an advertising agency with overseas ownership. As usual, the honourable member in his remarks was not concerned to let the facts about this matter spoil the very good story he believed he had to tell. The honourable member, unlike his leader, often is not punctilious about the truth. Although his allegations were incorrect as I propose to show, I was impressed by his apparent sincere concern for the future of the Australian owned advertising industry. In fact, never before have I heard him so outspokenly the champion of Australian owned and controlled industry. Therefore, I was concerned to establish whether his words in this place were matched by his actions and those of his party in South Australia. Regrettably, my research has uncovered the following facts. 
During the course of the 1970 State elections in South Australia full page newspaper advertisements were placed by the Liberal Party's great friend and political ally, the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Without question, they were among the most scurrilous advertisements ever placed by any political party during an election campaign. Of course, the DLP employed its old technique of suggesting guilt by association. Later in 1970 during the Senate election campaign of that year advertisements were placed in Adelaide newspapers by the Liberal-Country Party League which were so similar in design and appearance as to be almost indistinguishable from the DLP advertisements for the State election campaign. These advertisements also employed the guilt by association technique. Like many other people. I was struck by the similarity of these advertisements - so much so that my curiosity was aroused as to whether they had been prepared and placed by the same advertising agency. Accordingly, I made inquiries about the agencies which had placed these newspaper advertisements. This is what I discovered: The Liberal and Country League advertisements had been prepared and placed by the Party's traditional advertising agency, Martin Kinnear Clemenger Pty Ltd, in which company the largest shareholder is John Clemenger Pty Ltd which we all know is the agency used by the Democratic Labor Party in Victoria. I discovered that the DLP advertisements had sot been placed by Martin Kinnear Clemenger, but by an agency called Admen Advertising Pty Ltd. 
Disappointed but undaunted, I initiated a search at the office of the Registrar of Companies to determine the ownership and control of that agency. To my amazement, I found that there are 3 shareholders in Admen Advertising which I remind the House handled the DLP advertising in the 1970 State elections in South Australia. One is  Mr Kevin  V. Borick who at those elections was the LCL candidate for the marginal seat of Unley in the Federal seat of Boothby. The second is a  Mr William  H. Stevens.  Mr Stevens  would not bc known to many members of this House. But on Monday, 25th September, he wrote a letter to the Editor of the Adelaide Advertiser' defending the honourable member for Boothby. He signed himself W. H. Stevens, Secretary, Norwood Men's Branch, Liberal and Country League. The third and major shareholder is our old friend Martin Kinnear Clemenger Pty Ltd, who, I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  handle, and have handled for years, the LCL account in South Australia. Admen Advertising has 3 directors.  Mr Borick  and  Mr Stevens  look after their interests and  Mr J.  B. Jarvis, a Director of Martin Kinnear Clemenger, is the third Admen Director. Presumably they all look after the interests of the Liberal and Country League. 
For years we have suspected closer than normal links between the LCL and the DLP but now we have living proof of outright collusion between these 2 parties. Here is an intriguing pattern of interlocking directorates and shareholding - the DLP's advertising agency owned and controlled by the Liberal Party's advertising agency together with a man prominent enough in the Liberal Party to be its candidate for a seat at the last State elections and another who is an official of a LCL branch. One is led to only one conclusion - that Admen Advertising was created by Liberal Party interests as a convenient way of enabling the Liberal Party in South Australia to fund the DLP's campaign in that State. 
After the unwarranted attack by the honourable member for Boothby last week on the Dunstan Government, the agency, Hansen-Rubensohn-McCann Erickson, and its South Australian Manager,  Mr Geoff  Huntley, a highly respected figure in advertising in South Australia, I made inquiries about the advertising agency used by that gentleman's private interest, McLeay Bros Pty Ltd in Adelaide. I was not surprised to learn that his firm places its advertising through Admen Advertising, the DLP's agency. This brings me to the question of foreign interests in Australian advertising. From the remarks made by the honourable member for Boothby last week, one would have thought that so great is his concern for the preservation of the Australian advertising industry that he would have found unconscionable the use of other than an entirely Australian-owned advertising agency by both the Party to which he belongs and his own carpet firm. 
Instead what we find is that John Clemenger Pty Ltd is in the process of yielding a substantial portion of its ownership and control to the American firm, Batten, Barton Durstine and Osborn. Because of the close links between John Clemenger Pty Ltd, Martin Kinnear Clemenger and Admen Advertising, what we in fact have is a significant American ownership and control in the advertising agencies used by both the Liberal Party in South Australia, and the honourable member's own firm, McLeay Bros Pty Ltd. What 1 am shocked to realise is that far from being a champion for the cause of wholly Australian-owned advertising agencies, the honourable member for Boothby most certainly misled the House in regard to that matter. Apparently, it is not in order for the Australian Labor Party to use an advertising agency with American links - that is unpatriotic. It is, however, all right for the Party to which the honourable member belongs, and the firm in which he has financial interests to use advertising agencies with American links. 
The firm of Masius Wynne-Williams Pty Ltd is an advertising agency for the Liberal Party and it also engages in work for the Post Office. This company also has some 35 per cent overseas interest. Let me quote from a South Australian Hansard in regard to the account of the Australian Country Party. It reads: 
The account of the Australian Country Party ... is serviced in this country by the United States-owned Leo Burnett Company,  a  wholly-owned subsidiary of that company in the USA. 
The account of the Democratic Labor Party which is even serviced by subscriptions from supporters of the honourable member, is served by John Clemenger Proprietary Limited which was formerly  a  wholly Australian-owned agency in which the American agency . . . has now acquired  a 35  per cent shareholding. 
Let us look at some of the other advertising agencies in Australia which have close contact and association with State Liberal governments around Australia. The present New South Wales Government when it took office transferred to the Liberal Party's advertising agents, Masius Wynne-Williams, the agency I mentioned a few moments ago, the advertising accounts of the State Lotteries Department, the Premiers Department and the Health Department. Those accounts previously had been serviced by Hansen-Rubensohn-McCann Erickson. That firm has been denied those accounts and they have been given to the, company which services the Liberal Party in New South Wales. 
If the honourable member for Boothby wants to stand here and make a snide attack on what happens in South Australia he ought to look at his own household before blazing away. If time would permit, I would relate to the House many other areas in New South Wales which are serviced by overseas companies. Having looked at the facts I would like to say with regard to the firm to which the honourable member took such strong objection that up to 31st December 1971 the agency's Adelaide office had, before paying tax, the magnificent profit of $5,252. This year the company probably will suffer a loss. All but 3 of its employees are employed in South Australia and most of its work is undertaken in that State. It is true that it does some work for some Government departments in South Austrafia. It is equally true to say that there are some overseas advertising companies which do a great deal of work for a great number of the banks in Adelaide. I think that puts an end to the attitude displayed by the honourable member for Boothby a couple of weeks ago in this chamber. I hope that the honourable member is listening tonight and that he will basten into this chamber to apologise for the disgraceful manner in which he attacked the South Australian Government in the hope that nobody would check what he put to the House and what he tried to convince the House were truthful statements or clear statements. In fact, we now know that what his company indulges in is far worse than what he complained about. 
I move: 
That so much  of the  Standing  Orders  be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Sturt making  a  statement  on  the report  of  the Joint Committee  on  Publications  now  before the House. 
I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders and I know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you will make me stick closely to what that actually means in terms of the restrictions imposed upon me. 
The Leader of the House interjects in agreement. Let me say that it is a shocking state of affairs when a member of the Publications Committee has to move the suspension of Standing Orders in order to discuss one aspect of a report which fills 190 foolscap pages. I am forced to act in that way. I have already informed the Leader of the House that other members of the Committee want to participate in this debate, but naturally the Government does not want to debate the matter. How can we accept what the Leader of the House has just said? He gave an assurance and in the same breath qualified it by saying 'time permitting'. Only the week before last I referred to the limited time available to discuss these important matters, and now I have been forced to move the suspension of Standing Orders to make a statement relevant to a document containing 190 pages. 
When the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was speaking the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee, the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  suggested by interjection that the honourable member for Hughes had no right to speak on the subject because he did not attend all the meetings of the Committee during the winter recess. I remind the honourable member for Ballaarat that with very little notice he changed the times of those meetings. I am not quarrelling with that but I do think it is unfair of the honourable member for Ballaarat to interject and say that the honourable member for Hughes was not at the Committee meetings as he knows that the honourable member for Hughes serves on a number of parliamentary committees, including the Public Works Committee, a duty which calls him away from the venue of the meetings of the Publications Committee. It is also unfair to suggest that the honourable member has not read the report. The Committee has met since the report was made available. 
I also was unable to attend some of the winter recess meetings but we have read the report and all we want to do is have it debated. Some of the allegations made in the report ought to be aired. When Government supporters want to stifle the debate one can only conclude that they do not want those matters aired in this place. There are allegations that bad the Government and the Post Office adopted a more proper and correct line, a profit instead of a deficit would have resulted in 1970-71. In the last two or three weeks a great deal has been said about the fact that the Post Office ran at a loss last year but now has a profit of$60m and an alleged profit of $200m. In those circumstances it should not come as any surprise that a member of the Opposition moves the suspension of Standing Orders in order to have this report properly debated. I deplore that situation, and so would members of the public if they could be made aware of the system that prevails inthis place. 
Thank you for the interjection. The truth is in this document. The true attitude of Government supporters is contained in the report which the honourable member has just delivered to this House. I refer him to page 11 of the report, portion of which the honourable member quoted to the House. The attitude of Government supporters towards foreign control of the Australian Post Office is spelt out in the report.I hope you will forgive me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for transgressing for a moment. Honourable members opposite are completely out of step and out of tune with the statement ofthe Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on foreign takeovers made in this House, from memory, last Wednesday week. That is clear from the report. If any honourable member opposite wishes to challenge me on that score he has only to read the report.I suggest to the honourable member for Ballaarat that he read in Hansard tomorrow what he has said in the last hour and he will realise that the allegations we are making are truthful. I have already stated that the document contains almost 200 pages. In it are statements by people within the industry which indicate- 
That may be, but I think you would agree that I have laid a pretty good foundation. Perhaps I have transgressed a little in indicating to any fair minded member of the Parliament that members of the Committee should be allowed to debate the report. Unfortunately some of those members are at present attending another Committee meeting. The procedures of the House should allow for a full debate on the report. Why should it not be so? 
The Postmaster-General, as the Minister responsible for this portfolio, must certainly have had knowledge. He has had deputations to him. 
Look, do not sit there interposing and saying that you have not had deputations from the industry relative to this matter. You know darn well you have. 
Do you mean to tell me. as the responsible Minister, that a report of this nature relating to the Post Office, for which you are ministerially responsible, has been seen by you for the first time this morning? 
That is what you are inferring. Do you mean to tell me that you do not know what foreign interests have done about the publication of the pink pages of the telephone directory? Are you going to infer to this House that this is the first you have heard of it? What aload of tripe, and you know it. 
You do not like it;I can see that. 
No, I did not. He made it against himself. 
Well, don't give me that. 
I am sorry that the Leader of the House, the Minister for Customs and Excise- 
Are you trying to take up the last 2 minutes of my time? 
If the honourable member for Mallee claims to be shocked, I will conclude my remarks. I must do so because of the means that have been used to deny me my last few minutes of speaking time. The Leader of the House should allow the debate to proceed and statements to be made if he wants to correct the impression he says that I have wrongfully given about the Postmaster-General. I suggest that the debate proceed so that at least 3 other members of the Opposition can speak. I challenge the Leader of the House to permit that course to be followed. 
 It surprises me that any Government supporter, particularly the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  would dare to rise in this House and talk about conservation when he has been a party to a campaign in Indo-China to eradicate almost three-fifths of its land area of timber. I take this opportunity to remind the honourable member how shockingly lacking he can be in this regard. In addition I remind the House of the stupidity of the Government and of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in attempting to introduce into this House a proposal to impose a tax on the use of liquid petroleum gas in motor vehicles. That proposal was very hastily withdrawn. The Government withdrew it because it knew of a decision on this side of the House to oppose it during the Budget debate. How unconcerned must this Government lie when it seeks to impose a tax on what can be regarded, in comparison with other petroleum products used in motor %'ehicles. as a comparatively non-pollutant fuel. So much for the Government's hypocrisy in regard to that. 1 will waste no more time on that. 
The honourable member for Warringah, who has hurriedly left the chamber, spoke about exhaust emission. How many Government supporters have stood in this place and have said, as a guide to transport companies and transport pool operators, that this Government would operate government motor cars and government transport vehicles with liquid petroleum gas? lt has not done so. Government supporters have woken up to the environment in the last few short weeks and they are falling damn short of what their responsibilities ought to be in regard to this matter. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  who is attempting to interject, does nothing in administering his portfolio to ensure that certain near city areas are given back to local authorities in the interests of the people, and in the interests of environment and recreational facilities. They should hand them back to the local councils which can make good use of them on behalf of the people. This Government has no use for them in this day and age for retraining purposes. 
How much attention is the Minister for the Army paying to the Woodside area in South Australia and the Hills freeway where land is now being made available to every speculator across the Commonwealth and indeed to overseas speculators who are running rampant through the area offering all sorts of inflated prices for farm land adjacent to the very area to which the Minister will perhaps in the next few short weeks have to pay some regard. He should not sit in this place and think that he can make snide remarks when somebody is on his feet, thinking that that person may not have some knowledge of the situation. What he ought to be doing as a Minister is to stand in this place and say what ought to be said in the interests of the community. 
Most of us are conscious that the world today faces a number of major problems which appear almost insoluble. The most important of these problems is the environmental crisis. This threat to the life support system of the earth is more apparent to those suffering from its effects already but is nonetheless shared by us all. In the developed nations it may manifest itself in emphysema, lung cancer, heavy metal poisoning, mental illness or by our increasing dependence on hazardous and potentially dangerous chemical sprays used in food production. In the under-developed nations environmental stress becomes evident earlier and shows itself in the more traditional manner through starvation and disease. It is doubtful whether the world can support over a period of time the level of industrial activity to which it is at present being subjected. Our wanton use of valuable and limited mineral and energy resources to create shoddy products of little or no real value is extremely short sighted in 1972 and will not only create animosity in the under-developed world but also will downgrade our own children's futures. 
The despoilation of land is still proceeding, even in Australia, although many nations are now spending millions of dollars in land reclamation projects. A recent survey showed that unless drastic steps are taken soon almost all of the native vegetation, except that under State control, which exists within a 50 miles radius of Adelaide will be destroyed by 1980 regardless of whether the land is suitable for agriculture. A common symptom of environmental breakdown is the use of irrigation for food production, leading to increased salinity levels and the ultimate failure of crops. We all are familiar with the problems of salinity along the Murray River caused by irrigation and the intrusion of salt water into the aquafier at the 
Adelaide Plains due to over-pumping. The more dependent we become upon such exercises the more we are closing our options for the future. It is up to us to recognise these and other problems and to take responsible action now. 
It is imperative that action be taken at all levels of government but the most important role must be assumed by the Federal Government. There are areas in which it can act immediately and have a significant impact. For example, the vast majority of Australians live in major cities which, as a result, suffer from congestion and air pollution. In order to assist decentralisation which will help to solve this problem, the Federal Government can provide cheap land, mass transportation systems, additional finance for tertiary educational complexes and establish Commonwealth Departments at the new sites to provide employment in the early stages of development. The efforts of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation should be considerably expanded in the field of environmental conservation and the Organisation should immediately undertake the national survey of natural resources which was suggested by the National Academy of Science in 1968 and again in 1972. This should be paralleled by the removal of income tax incentives for the clearing of indigenous vegetation and the provision of incentives for its retention. The Commonwealth should provide funds for the management of national parks in States and should assist with the purchase of important wildlife habitats. It should provide a subsidy to allow the States to remove stock from marginal areas, such as the north Flinders Ranges, and assist in the destruction of introduced pests which are now in that area. 
One subject which is of particular interest to me and one which the laughing honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  may remember I have raised, is the open space and Hills face zone in the Adelaide Hills area in the Federal electorate of Sturt. There are local problems which require Federal assistance if we are to provide a worthwhile environment. The State Government is restricting development in the Hills face zone of both urban and extractive industry and the Australian Labor 
Party's shadow Minister for the Environment, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  has promised that the Australian Labor Party would, when elected, give assistance to the purchase of major portions of the Hills face zone and thus provide recreational land and preserve this vital backdrop to the city. A fund has also been established by the State Government to allow quarry site restoration and the planting of trees. There are many areas of land in Adelaide at present which will almost inevitably be built on because insufficient funds are available to enable them to be purchased as recreational land. Two such areas are Craigburn and Penfold's vineyards. I have made vigorous attemps to frustrate the alienation of Penfolds and believe that other vineyards should be retained. I will work to achieve this. 
At present our pattern of industrial development is capable of generating goods in excess of our reasonable personal requirements and this has resulted in the widespead introduction of gimmickry and deliberate obsolescence. The problem of distribution of resources is now being recognised and elementary arithmetic shows that there are insufficient materials in the world to provide the underdeveloped nations with a standard of living equivalent to our own. Because of this and other problems, goods will have to meet much higher standards of durability than heretofore. It is evident that with the introduction of automation and mechanisation fewer people will be required in the production of goods. Consequently more and more of us will become involved in one kind of service industry or other. We look forward in this respect to a shorter working week. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has had plenty to say to straighten the twisted and tormented minds of members of the Government parties on this matter. Australia cannot ignore the greatest single problem facing the world today - over-population - and it is a problem in respect of which there has to be international understanding rather than countries saying that they have no problems simply because their problems are not the same as the problems faced by India, Pakistan and other nations. 
The 10 minutes allowed each honourable member in this debate is not sufficient even to scratch the surface of this matter and the Government's action in restricting the debate to  10  minutes for each speaker is indicative of its attitude to important matters such as this. 
The honourable member for Angas who interjects so much should realise that the area which he represents in this Parliament is being denuded of vegetation, it is an area which should never have had a plough, harrow or pick put into it for so-called agricultural development because since it was opened up about SO years ago farmers have had to exist on a pittance,  lt  is no good the honourable member saying that he does not have to recognise certain factors, such as salination, in his electorate. But be that as it may, his thinking has never changed and is never likely to change. 
I was personally misrepresented on the basis of a speech I made in this House yesterday. I said that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  had received deputations on a matter relating to the pink pages directory in Victoria. He said that he had not received a deputation last July from the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  in regard to this matter. The deputation placed all the submissions from Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd before the Minister. So the Minister was not correct in saying to the House yesterday that he had not received a deputation on this matter. 
I want to refer to one or two matters relative to the estimates for the Department of the Interior. Earlier today mention was made of a report relating to a Commonwealth block in Tasmania. I have risen before in this chamber to speak of the construction of Commonwealth offices in Adelaide. I would appreciate it if the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  would listen or the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  would let him listen. As 1 said, I have previously referred to the construction of Commonwealth offices not necessarily in Adelaide but at least in suburban Adelaide. For how much longer is the Australian tax payer to be required to pay rental for Commonwealth accommodation to wealthy insurance companies? The AMP building in Adelaide consists of 16 floors. Commonwealth officers occupy in excess of 10 floors, including the whole of the 15th floor. The rental for this accommodation is being paid by the Commonwealth Government from the pockets of the Australian taxpayers. The amount being paid will probably meet the whole cost of this building within a period of 5 years. 
For a number of years officers of the Department of the Interior have been accommodated in Da Costa building in Gawler Place in Adelaide and with other Commonwealth departments probably has already contributed to the full cost of construction of that building, again from the taxpayers' pockets. The Department of the Interior now intends to move from that building. Apparently Da Costa building is out of the red so the Department will now move into a new building on the corner of King William and Grenfell Streets in Adelaide. This building was constructed in the last 12 months by the Investment and 
Merchant Finance Corporation Ltd, a merchant banking organisation. Why are other Commonwealth departments being transferred from quite modern and adequate buildings into new buildings? Almost every insurance company in Adelaide is benefiting from such transfers. Why does the Department of the Interior continue to refuse to recognise the need in South Australia for a Commonwealth office block? Why do the Department of the Treasury and the Taxation Office remain in the 'Advertiser' building in Adelaide paying exorbitant rents to a wealthy South Australian combine? Noone can suggest to me that the Adelaide Advertiser' or the Bonython family are going to the wall or are on the rocks. 
Let us consider some of the rentals that the Commonwealth Government is paying in Adelaide. The Department of Immigration occupies an old and almost dilapidated building opposite the Adelaide railway marshalling yards. This building is not quite opposite the Adelaide railway station platform area. According to an answer to a question asked in the Senate last year, the Commonwealth is paying as rental $10.1 a square foot per annum for accommodation in this old and dilapidated building. Is it because the directors of the company which owns that building have been associated for so long with the top brass of the Liberal Party in South Australia? I believe that the Department of Social Services and the Department of Health pay an average of about $4.35 a square foot per annum for accommodation in the AMP building. Why then is the Government coughing up to chemical companies in Adelaide in excess of $10 a square foot for inferior office space? These are questions that should be answered by the Minister for the Interior. Obviously he has something else on his plate because he took up a fair amount of time a little while ago and be does not intend to reply to any other questions. 
I turn now to the question of votes for 18-year olds and to what the Minister for the Interior said in August 1971. I quote from a document 'Liberal and Country League; Replies to Resolutions Passed at the Annual General Meeting of Delegates held on 6th and 7th August 1971 through the  Hon.  A. J. Forbes, M.P.'. In regard to the 18-year old vote I quote from the statement by the Minister for the Interior, who said: 
An Interdepartmental Committee recently examined the question of lowering the age of legal responsibility, including the matter of the franchise age. Although the franchise age could be lowered as a separate exercise without the complications that would attend a lowering of the age of majority, you will appreciate that the  2  matters are inter-related. The Government has yet not examined the Interdepartmental Committee's report nor has it taken any decision on the franchise age. The franchise age question is one of policy and an announcement of the Government's intentions will be made as soon as a decision has been reached. The lowering of the franchise age for State and local government elections is, of course, a matter for consideration by the respective State governments. 
Let us consider what the Minister for the Interior has said in this chamber about votes for 18-year-olds and compare that with the speech which was delivered on his behalf by the Minister for Immigration over 12 months ago. If we make such a comparison we can see the twisting attitudes of the Government on this issue. I say no more on this matter for the moment. 
We still have not had from the Department of the Interior - surely it must accept some responsibility because it signs the cheque, as it were - information concerning the purchase of Everard Park for use as an Aboriginal reserve. I have raised this matter on previous occasions. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  now is not going to keep the promise he made or honour his undertaking in reply to a question to table all relevant documents concerning that particular land transaction. I would have hoped that today the Minister for the Interior would have informed honourable members about the situation and told honourable members how a very prominent member associated with the Liberal Party in South Australia came to lay his hands on this property at a time when the Commonwealth Government was negotiating the purchase of the property, according to the Prime Minister's statement of 26th February of this year relative to Aboriginal land rights. How much money was made by the private speculators, if I may use that term, on this transaction? 
We were told by the Minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs that the land was being purchased by the Government for the 
Aboriginals. Later we learned that the MacLachlan interests were involved with this property. The MacLachlans are associated with Jumbuk House in Adelaide in South Australia. If I were to read out here what their company and pastoral interests are, quite apart from their political interests with the LCL in South Australia, I would need an extension of time which would occupy all the time until this chamber adjourned at about 11 o'clock tonight. Honourable members should be informed why it was that, when such a land transaction was being negotiated by the Commonwealth Government and when cheques were being written as payment for it, it was found that the land was in the possession of a private vested pastoral interest. It is no good for the Minister to be chatting to a back bench member who is now trying to occupy the front bench temporarily because he will not be here after 2nd December. I want the Minister to tell the Committee whether this land transaction was above board or whether, as is suspected by a large number of the general public and not only myself, it was not. I want him to inform honourable members what went on. Why was the Prime Minister telephoned by a brother of the  President  of the Liberal and Country League in South Australia, who said: 'Look, Billy, you can have it back'? It was because the Government was in the hot seat. We do not want to hear from the Minister any glossing over such as we had with the Jetair affair. We want from the Minister facts and figures. For what amount was a cheque written by the Commonwealth? How much was the Government prepared to pay and then how much finally was paid to the MacLachlan interests in this deal? Has the property been properly purchased on behalf of Aboriginals in accordance with the Prime Minister's statement of 26th January last year? That is the least that the Government can tell us to clear its name and the name of the Department. 
In the few seconds remaining to me I want to say that it is time that the Department of the Interior handed over the administration of Aboriginal affairs to an appropriate Commonwealth department, properly constituted for that purpose. The administration of Aboriginal affairs should not be split down the middle, half being dealt with by the Department of the Interior, the administration of which the Country Party considers to be its sole province, to be dictated to and ruled and dominated by the Country Party ever since it has been in office. 
Motion (by  Mr England)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Proposed expenditure, $26,004,000. 
I understand that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has cleared out. It is no good him saying that unemployment figures have not been cooked. It is no good the Minister leaving the chamber because he does not want to hear the truth. The fact is that recently in this chamber sufficient evidence was produced to show quite clearly and concisely that incomplete figures have been made available. If my memory serves me correctly, figures were given by the Commonwealth Statistician regarding migrant unemployment as a percentage of total unemployment, but recently these figures have been omitted and migrants have been a high percentage of the total. It is no good the Minister saying that this situation does not exist in the community. In Adelaide last week 125 people were sacked from the motor industry. Because my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  could not take part in this debate he has written a letter to the Minister on this subject. As yet, of course, he has not received a reply. The Minister goes from this chamber and claptraps about trade unions.  His  Government, through one Commonwealth Department, is letting contracts fall into foreign hands. 
The Assistant Minister assisting thi Postmaster-General  (Mr Robinson)  can listen to what I have to say about Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. There was an undertaking in respect of the staff of this firm, but what has happened? Five juniors have been offered employment by the foreign contracting company. Because of the uncertainty of the situation 33 employees have left the firm. Seven senior clerical officers have been interviewed but have not been employed. In Adelaide the firm of Clarkson Ltd is to be taken over by what I regard as foreign owners. At least 50 per cent of its staff will not be absorbed by the takeover company. This represents 250 people who will be dismissed. It is not good enough for the Minister to say, when some honourable member suggests that the books have been cooked, that he is lousy on it. Not one thinking member opposite - I pay some regard to the mental capabilities of honourable members opposite - can honestly say that there are more people unemployed than are registered for unemployment benefits. About 30 per cent of the kids in my electorate went back to school last year because they could not get employment, but they do not appear in the unemployment figures. If any honourable member wants to say that the books are cooked, having that information in mind, it is perfectly valid for him to do so because he can back his claim with figures. 
I have made representations in Canberra, as the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  knows, to the Academy of Science for biology books for use in the 3 principal high schools in my electorate. This requirement has been made necessary because of the school leavers who have not been able to obtain employment. What is the position of the bloke who is out of work, who has 3 or 4 dependants and whose wife is working and bringing in $30 a week? He cannot get any benefit. Is he shown in the unemployment statistics? I invite the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  to answer this question. Is this man shown statistically as being unemployed? 
Honourable members opposite talk about industrial relations and wage justice, and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on Monday Conference' or some other programme of that nature the other night said that in 12 months time Australia will have overfull employment. This Government has never had a proper policy of industrial relations. It has never had a proper policy of employment of the whole of the Australian work force. It has an ad hoc attitude to employment. It has been by good fortune that people have been employed. The Government has not planned for employment. It has not planned for any national development to cater for the people employed by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. I invite the Assistant Minister to say that what I am saying is untrue. He knows darn well it is not untrue. 
Finally, I come to the question of the wage gap. We have the situation now - I am not saying that it is wrong - that the wife of an employee aged over 60 years who is dragging in $100 a week becomes entitled to a form of social welfare pension. I do not disagree with this and I make this abundantly clear. If the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is not asleep but merely has his eyes closed he will agree with what I say. Remember, I said $100 a week and $103 is the cut off point. Yet in every State of the Commonwealth minimum wage and salary earners have to take home pays of less than $50 a week, and they each have 2 or 3 kids to maintain. At what point is Professor Henderson's poverty line drawn? It is $52 a week. What does the Government propose to do about the ever-widening gap in wages? All it has done within the last 6 months has been to seek to update the salary of personnel of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by 37 per cent. At the same time it goes crook about the unions making demands on behalf of workers who have a take home pay of less than $50 a week, which is below what Professor Henderson says is the poverty line. Where is the Government's honesty? Where is its integrity in this matter? Where is its sense of standards? Where is its sense of proportion in respect of the standards that people should expect in such a lucky and wealthy country? What is the Government's atti tude to this gap in salaries? Does the Government intend to leave it to the trade unions to try to remedy the situation? Is the Government intending to leave it on the basis of Commonwealth and State financial relations? 
How can State governments with their meagre Budgets and with no access to the income tax field pay more than a mere pittance of $50 a week to the bloke who works for water boards and sewerage boards and does the lousiest jobs in the community and gets the least for it? This situation must be examined. If the Government says that the States are burdened by restricted Budgets why does it not, in the interests of the wives and children of men on this low wage and salary level, make grants to the State governments to enable them to lift those wages by at least 20 per cent? The same situation applies to some employees of the Commonwealth Government. Is the Commonwealth Government not an employer? Can any honourable member opposite claim that he has ever stood in this chamber or elsewhere publicly and said that people are entitled to a wage rise, except when it concerns himself? Tell me when you have done that. Tell me of any Liberal Party of Country Party candidate for office who has ever stood publicly or in this place under privilege and supported a wage or salary increase other than for yourselves or the top brass within the Commonwealth structure. 
That is where the great gap lies today. That is where the poverty line is placed. How do you expect people to exist on the lousy pittance that you give to an unemployed bloke with a wife and 2 children? The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  seeks to interject. If he wants to gag me, let him go ahead and do so, but I point out to him that farmers in his electorate have suffered from drought after drought. The South Australian Government, that he attacks here, has done more for those farmers than this lousy Federal Government has ever thought about doing. It gave no grants towards the efforts of the Dunstan Government in South Australia to put the unemployed on local government work and the honourable member knows that. He should not interpose on that point. 
The penny will drop so far as people seeking employment are concerned. I remind  the 
Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is now at the table, of the difficulties of the long term unemployed. A man who is out of work for 6 months finds it more difficult to get a job and develops a mental attitude towards the unfortunate position in which the Government places him. It becomes harder when you are unemployed. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  is laughing but I point out to him that it is harder for a man who has been out of work for 6 months to get a job than it is for a man who has been out of work for 3 weeks. If he does not have enough common sense to see that, there is something wrong with him. It is even more difficult for a man who has been out of work for 9 months. The Department's figures are revealing that the numbers of long term unemployed are increasing. 
You cannot expect people in the community to exist on a few lousy dollars a week at a time when an employed person taking home  $100  a week can still get something from the Government. It is time that the Government did something for the people at the other end of the scale. You do not realise what you inflict on a wage earner when you push him into unemployment and deprive his children of the proper facilities for education, particularly beyond the primary school age. Honourable members opposite who purport to have the interests of the community at heart should be looking at those aspects about which I get emotional and concerned. Government supporters show no concern at all about them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want briefly to enter this debate- 
Yes, I remind my friend the Deputy Liberal Party Whip that I am always nice and calm. I enter this debate at the Committee stage because of the almost hysterical outburst against the Opposition by the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who is now sitting somewhat forlornly at the table with his head hung in shame, possibly because he has done some reflection during the dinner adjournment. I think I spoke about wool when I made my second speech in this place in 1970. Perhaps some Government supporters would be well advised to have a look at what I said nearly 3 years ago. This Bill is aimed at assisting the wool industry. The Minister, now roused a little, had so much to say this afternoon relative to wool brokers. Broking is one area which has not carried the burden of the mistakes of the Government in regard to this industry. 
Dalgety Australia Limited is a name that falls from the lips of so many of the people who purport to represent the wool growers. It is a name which comes to their minds in any election year because of the magnificant handouts that such companies make to the Liberal-Country Party political machine. In 1969 Dalgety made a profit of $2,416,000. 
It was $2,416,000. 
I am not concerned with its capital but with the facts. The Minister may laugh. I make this very valid point down at the farm gate level, if I may use that phrase which honourable members opposite have not used. The farm gate level is the subsistence level. Whatever capital goes through the farm gate allows the farmer to service his debts, to meet his ever increasing local government rates, his cost of living, his depreciation on machinery and all the other things that he is responsible for as a man on theland. Let us turn to the profits of Dalgety for 1970. I ask the learned gentlemen within the industry to bear in mind the reduction in the income of the producer. 
In 1970 Dalgety's profit was notreduced very much. It was almost $2m. How much of that revenue came from this Government? If the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  wants to know about clauses he should look at the Bill. He had a lot to say about it this afternoon. In 1971 the profit was well in excess of $1.5m. The 'Australian Financial Review' of today, which I do not have with me, said that Elder SmithGoldsborough Mort Ltd made $6m in 1969. That figure was reduced by only a few thousand dollars in 1970. In 1971 the profit was in excess of $4m. 
I would need an extension of time to give the shareholding. I remind my honourable friend from Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that the takeover by Younghusband Ltd gave. Elder Smith a wider share spread. This appears in the Australian Financial Review' of today's date. I will hold it aloft for those few Country Party members who have been cluttering the benches since 1969. It contains a half page list of the major shareholders of Elder Smith-Goldsbrough Mort. They are not poor farmers and they are not representatives of farmers' co-operative organisations. 
They are the Bank of New South Wales, ANZ Nominees Ltd, the Australian Mutual Provident Society and others. Let me digress for a moment and say that a tremendous amount of the taxpayers' money is wasted, as a result of the Country Party's attitude to the massive buildings purchased or built by these wealthy insurance companies which the Commonwealth Government rents from them. Other shareholders include Elders Trustee and Executor Company, City Mutual Life Assurance Society, National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd, Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. There is not sufficient in the measure before the Committee to assist the grower or to protect the consumer. 
Committee deserves to know what amendment or what clause he is remarking upon. It is quite beyond everybody who has been paying attention to this Bill to decide what on earth he is referring to. 
I had not intended to deal with the matter I am about to deal with tonight except for the attitude displayed by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  in using the terms that he used in relation to the Australian Labor Party and the position that we might be in during an election campaign. I could stand here tonight and sling mud about what is happening to the Liberal Party and the Liberal movement in South Australia but I will fight this election on the issues, not on personalities and what is happening within political parties. I want to come back to the Minister for the Interior so that he can stand again in this House tonight and clear his name and that of his Department in relation to a matter I have raised on several occasions. I refer to Everard Park in South Australia and its proposed purchase - I say 'its proposed purchase' - by the Commonwealth. I am glad to see that the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  has just come into the chamber. We have not been informed in this House whether this property is being purchased on behalf of the Aborigines. We have not been told in this House whether in fact there has been a purchase. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  stated in this House a few weeks ago that the Government was about to conclude the purchase, either on that day or the following day. I want to know whether the Commonwealth has the power to acquire this property. 
I ask that question because of the very sorry spectacle of what happened in regard to Aboriginal land rights, if I may use that term, as the Government sees them as illustrated by the speech of the Prime Minister on 26th January this year. Has the Commonwealth the power to acquire this property? If so, why did it have to go cap in hand begging the McLachlan family in South Australia, who went under the neck of the Commonwealth Government after it had written a cheque for the amount involved in the acquisition of this property, and plead with the family to allow the Commonwealth to purchase it. If the Government does not have the power it should have the courage, decency and honesty to say so and should bring the appropriate legislation into this place to acquire the power in accordance with the Prime Minister's statement of 26th January. 
In addition, on figures that I have revealed already by way of Press statements and so forth, there is a large discrepancy in regard to the purchase price of this property and what later appeared in Press statements and other statements by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts about this property. We want the Minister for the Interior to give an answer directly, if he can, as to whether or not the Government has acquired the property and what was paid for the property, and to reveal to this House the details of the whole transaction. 
We in South Australia are not very happy on this matter because of the company which owned the property or had the lease and to which, of course, the Commonwealth had to go to acquire the lease. I refer to the McLachlan family. Its history of treatment of Aborigines in South Australia is nothing short of shocking. A land acquisition by the South Australian Government some few years ago was transacted with this family. At that time these people stood on the then South Australian Government and insisted on a dogproof fence being erected around waterholes and timber on the property and denied access to both water and timber by the Aborigines concerned. The family has a long history of bad treatment of the Aborigines. 
Is it any wonder that, when the Commonwealth had its options open to acquire the Everard Park property on behalf of the northwest Aborigines in South Australia, the McLachlans went under the neck of the Commonwealth and acquired the property because they did not want to see any reserve or. further than that, any land rights for Aborigines in areas adjacent to their own properties? The Minister has said to me in conversations in this chamber that if I asked him he would, in fact, give me the figures relating to the purchase, or if I went to his office he would give them to me. I have requested them but I have not received them. 
Perhaps this is like another matter that was raised here today, namely, that in relation to Jetair Australia Ltd, where we are still waiting for information and for something to be said by the Minister concerned. If I may briefly mention the Jetair matter, on 31 st March last year I made a statement in this House relevant to that. I will raise it again next week unless we get some sense out of the Government on it. 
The Government now stands in a position of having to reveal its sincerity in regard to Aboriginal land rights in this particular property acquisition. It should also lay down guidelines as to the future acquisition of properties, suitable of course to the Aborigines and after consultation with the Aborigines concerned. I have already referred to the statement in relation to the concept of Aboriginal land rights which was made by the Prime Minister on 26th January of this year. 
The attitude of the Department of the Interior to Aboriginal affairs and Aboriginal land rights and the attitude displayed by the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts are somewhat different. We will not see a change in this attitude until there is a change of government, which will occur shortly. Then this matter will be approached on a proper basis and not with interdepartmental jealousies as have occurred over this particular property where the Department of the Interior on the one hand, does not wish to see the property acquired by the Commonwealth and perhaps the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts wants to acquire the property and has to have some considerable interdepartmental argument with the Department of the Interior. 
This type of thing should be completely removed. If the Government is fair dinkum in this matter it will approach it in the manner in which it should be approached - on behalf of the Aboriginal people themselves. It should not continue with interdepartmental quarrels in regard to the matter. 1 directed a telegram to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  some few weeks ago. It read: 
Please advise urgently whether Commonwealth has the power to compulsorily acquire Everard Park. If you do not know please obtain this information from the Crown Solicitor. 
I have received no reply. So, not only does he not know himself, but he does not even know the procedures by which he should go to the Crown Solicitor to endeavour to ascertain whether or not the Commonwealth has the power. 
Of course one does not expect to get answers from every Minister in this place. I suppose it is asking a little too much to expect an answer from the AttorneyGeneral on a matter such as this. No doubt it would be different if it were in relation to a university student or what happened in front of the building with the Aboriginal embassy when we had a great deal of false response from the Attorney-General. I shall conclude and make 4 minutes of my time available to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts so that he can answer the questions which I have put to him in regard to the transaction. If we do not receive the answers I suggest that there are other forms of theHouse which I will be forced to use in order to get to the bottom of what can be regarded only as a deal which is questionable, to say the least. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be  now  put. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I will not take long to make my statement. I have heard bandied by 2 previous speakers by interjection that it was blackmail- 
Has the Prime Minister or his Government received any communication from Lord Vestey 6f the Vestey company which controls 16,965 square miles of land at Wave Hill in the Northern Territory, offering to the Government a grant of land from the Vestey property for people of the Gurindji tribe, leaving the Vestey holdings with approximately 16,930 square miles? If so, what were the terms of the offer? Was this offer made immediately after the release of a statement by the Government of its policy on Aboriginal land use? Why has it taken the Government 9 months since January to grant land to the Gurindji Aborigines? 
In the very few minutes available to honourable members in this debate I want to commence my remarks by reminding the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  that I stand by the statement I made in the House last night about certain appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Postmaster-General said there was no element of truth in what I had to say. If the Postmaster-General does not believe that a certain person appointed as a Commissioner is not his next door neighbour I am prepared to go on a current affairs programme with the Minister and debate the issue. I will not insist, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahan)  does, that there be a run and a re-run of the programme. Apparently the Prime Minister has to be afforded the protection of the PostmasterGeneral's Department before he will make a national broadcast to the people of this country. I stand by what I said last night about the shackling and censorship of the current affairs programmes. I do so in no uncertain manner. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  should not have been so quiescent and should not have been so congratulatory in his speech. The honourable member for Maranoa has stood in this place year after year and has complained about matters affecting his electorate and country people generally. For about the sixteenth time we heard the honourable member condescendingly praising the PostmasterGeneral and his Department whereas he ought to be taking a stronger line on behalf of the people he purports to represent. 
I have a few moans and groans to make. [ will not be so congratulatory. The Government's policy of increasing Post Office charges has inflicted a burden on the business community out of all proportion to what is required to meet the Department's costs. Last year in the Budget the Government imposed a tremendous increase in Post Office charges. A profit of $60m has been disclosed by the Postmaster-General and it is alleged that the correct profit could be as high as $200m. Honourable members are aware of the growth that has taken place within industries and insurance companies. Some insurance companies have now introduced their own system of capital city to capital city postal deliveries. Postal charges have been pushed up to the point at which business interests consider that they can carry out their own deliveries of letters, papers and parcels better than can the Postal Department. I hope that the Postmaster-General will not once again blame rising costs. Perhaps he should blame the management of his Department. I want to touch on some other matters that concern people in my electorate, and indeed, in the whole of South Australia, because of the stupidities and shortcomings of the Post Office. Why is it that public school organisations have been forced to pay higher postal charges on school books? Why has the South Australian Association of State School Organisations been inflicted with a burden through the shortcomings of the Government because of increased postal charges for its publication? People in the community who are associated with school committees, parent organisations and so on do not get one cent in return for the hours they devote to the welfare of children. These people have to engage in fund raising so that they can pay a handsome dividend to the Post Office. 
Oh nothing; it is a fact. The honourable member can 'Oh' as much as he likes. 1 come now to another matter. Why have church organisations also been placed in the category on which a burden has been inflicted? I have in mind the increased charges that have to be met by the people who produce the Methodist Central Times'. It is a terrible thing to increase these charges. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has been heard to plead a case for country newspapers in his electorate that have been swallowed up by the mass combine of city newspapers in the last few years. I refer to the 'Advertiser', for example. The honourable member's heart bled for them but he did not have a word to say for the pensioner organisations, school and church organisations, and so forth. 
When will the Postmaster-General raise the concession granted to widows in respect of television licences and the like? When the first teenager in the family brings in about S25 a week, away goes the concession. Not one skerrick of consideration is given to whether a widow has 3 children at school. Obviously the Minister does not give a damn. He simply says: That is the cut off point. That is my Department's decision. That is the Government's decision. There it ends and I will not listen to any compassionate argument.' Why has he not considered what is involved in the installation of telephones in flats and apartments? A hole is punched in a wall and a wire is led through but the installation charge and reconnection charge are the same for pensioners and others when they have to move, as quite frequently they do. I have corresponded with the Postmaster-General on this matter in recent weeks. Why is the same charge imposed on such people as is imposed on business organisations? 
I would also like the Postmaster-General to look into the cancellation of the television programme 'Adventure Island'. He must be aware that the programme was one of the most popular on television. The matter should receive his priority attention to ensure that the programme is continued. In my area after development takes place the people have to wait God knows how long for postal receiving facilities and public telephones. In some parts of my electorate people have been waiting for years for postal deliveries. Yet honourable members opposite say that they want to congratulate the Postmaster-General and his Department for all sorts of things. 
Another matter which troubles me at the moment is the restricted type of licence which has been granted to universities in Adelaide in respect of the production of television plays. It has been ruled that the producers cannot play music in those plays. We might as well go back to the days of silent films. What an imposition and a restriction to be in operation. Is there any common sense in it? The plays are produced on an educational basis but they must not include background music. It seems quite ridiculous to me and I hope that the penny will drop so that such a stupid restriction will be removed. I refer now to subscriber trunk dialling. Will the Minister inform this House whether the Belmont telephone exchange has a technical fault? 
 The honourable member knows damn well where it is. If the honourable member who represents that area were here 1 would tell you. I ask the Minister how many complaints he received about telephone accounts issued from that exchange? How many rebates and adjustments were made in terms of dollars and cents? The Minister will not reveal that figure because if he did other subscribers would be able to argue about their telephone accounts. Some people in my electorate who are usually charged for trunk line calls about $10 to $13 have received bills for about $400. I ask the Minister: What the devil goes on, man? Does not the Minister think that the situation requires some sort of investigation? The subscriber is not always at fault in querying charges. It may not always be a case of a teenage lass waiting for her parents to go out so that she can speak on the phone for hour after hour. Some bachelors in my electorate are salted with these types of bills. I repeat that there ought to be some sort of investigation into this matter. 
Although the time allotted me to speak in this debate has nearly expired 1 would like another 20 minutes to give the Minister a run down on a number of other deficiencies in his Department. I believe that the whole Department ought to be investigated to see whether a better system can be introduced to deal with rental charges, meter charges and so forth. Other countries have adopted a system of renting or hiring telephones which seems to be a more sensible and economic approach than the system at present in operation. 
I did not intend to speak on this occasion as I have continually been spoken to by the  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  But the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  stood in this place tonight and he inferred, by using the name of an officer of the Australian Council for Trade Unions, that that organisation is quite happy with this measure. You stood in this place last year in the dying stages of a session, did you not  Mr Minister,  and said the very same things you are saying now - that it is the intention of the Government to do certain things? You have had 12 months to do those things. You did nothing. I suggest to you as a Minister that you should have a look at some of the State Acts and see what a lousy presentation you are attempting to put through this chamber tonight in comparison with those. You have paid no regard to what the ACTU has said. You have paid no regard to what the Public Service organisations have said. To stand in this place and infer, in the manner in which you did, that they are quite happy with this Bill is not putting the facts of the matter squarely. You as Minister on 2 occasions have had a Bill before this House which has purported to do something about compensation. You have not even updated the provisions in this Bill to the standards that apply in many industries in this country or semigovernment bodies in South Australia which make up the difference between the workers' compensation payment and the pay rate enjoyed by employees of these bodies who through no fault of their own can no longer attend regularly at their place of work. What the Minister has done is to limit the payment of full sick pay to 26 weeks and then he has gone and filched their sick pay - that is the term I would use in a proper industrial concept. 
The Minister says that if a bloke is still off after 26 weeks as a result of having a wrist or back injury or because he has dropped something on his foot or whathaveyou, the Government will give him full pay for 26 weeks. But if his doctor - the almighty doctor, the false god to whom the Minister and his colleagues pray - says that he is going to be off for a greater period than 26 weeks the Government reduces his pay, does it not, but says in what it might think is some degree of benevolence: Well, you can take your sick pay'. Workers' compensation was introduced approximately 100 years ago in the United Kingdom. There was a great clamour among employers at that time that it would be the ruination of industry. But you still think in the same way as they thought 100 years ago in regard to compensation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member for Sturt should address his remarks to the Chair. 
I understand that the Bill is being taken as a whole. Is that right? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That is right, yes. 
Right. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am asking the honourable member to direct his remarks to the Chair. 
The Minister dealt wilh matters regarding the ACTU and whathaveyou. But with all due respect to yourself,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I will abide by the ruling that you gave that the Bill be taken as a whole. I come back to the fact that the Bill as a whole places a limitation.  Mr Chairman,  of 26 weeks, does it not? The Minister says that a bloke can use his sick pay - that is what the Minister's 
Bill says. Does the Minister consider that a fair thing in the light of standards in industry today when full pay is being made up to employees. You can sit with your head in your hands, sir, because you ought to. The Bill falls far short of what ought to be regarded as a proper compensation Act in this year of 1972. You,  Mr Minister,  have not told us, have you, in your second reading speech of the way out for the Commonwealth which was referred to by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  You spent more time in trying to deny workmen rightful compensation through the courts of this land than you are prepared to give in this lousy instrument that you have before this House tonight. 
I would say to you,  Mr Minister,  through the Chair, the very words that you said in the dying stages of a previous session of this Parliament, that the time does not permit and so forth and so on. You,  Mr Minister,  went on to say that the amendments which were put up by the Opposition on the then measure before the House would receive proper consideration during the recess period. In fact you,  Mr Minister,  through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  had agreed that a parliamentary draftsman would be made available to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in that particular matter. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is nodding his head because he has a better memory than does the Minister, and of course he does remember it,  Mr Minister. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I want to wind up on this note before I am gagged by the honourable member for Angas, who I can see is getting rather edgy, and say to the Minister: Don't you dare sit there - and this also applies to his Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who has just come somehow or other into the chamber - and say that you are doing anything in this Bill for people who are injured whilst they are in your employ, because you are not doing that. You,  Mr Minister,  are not even updating the Commonwealth compensation provisions to the same standards used in semigovernment organisations within the Commonwealth. You have the effrontery to stand here and say that the ACTU and proper employee organisations in this country regard this measure as being acceptable. You know that is not true. That is the reason I dragged myself reluctantly to my feet. I wanted to let the Minister know in no uncertain terms and to push back to him the very words he has used in the last 3 years in this Parliament. You know as well as I do that the slogan 'Not yet' which has been coined by your Government applies to every damned thing that you have been dodging in this country since the present Prime Minister gained office and particularly during the terms of office of his predecessors. I will wind up on that note. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
I support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. What I want presented to this House is not the statement to which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has just referred but the Bill. We should have the Bill in this place. This matter has gone on for too long. Ex-servicemen's organisations in my electorate have raised it with me. I have given them all the reports from this Government. The reports have not been dealt with by the Parliament. This Parliament could sit next week and deal with the issue rather than members going off and campaigning on platforms such as a television show with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and  Mr Frost.  Why not sit here next week, introduce the Bill and complement the reforms that are contained within the report? The report does not go all the way, but it will improve many aspects of Service life. For too long we have seen the hypocrisy of the Government hiding behind statements which do not determine the matters that concern servicemen today. They do not determine the factors which are dealt with in the report. What possible effect can a statement have towards curing the ills of Service life today in such matters as housing and education? 
Where is the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)?  He is not in the chamber now. Only a few weeks ago, and since then a few days ago, a matter was raised in this House relative to his Department. He was not here. I had to raise in the adjournment debate - I am reluctant to keep the House late at night - a question concerning a serving soldier being denied his pension. 
The Minister can hear me all right. I raised the matter of a serving soldier being denied his pension. In dealing with the matter of the suspension of Standing Orders- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  In support of the motion I made a point which should lead any reasonable thinking person in this chamber to support such a motion so that the matter can be dealt with by debate and by the introduction of a Bill that ought to be brought before this House, so that honourable members do not have to keep the House late at night on matters appertaining to the report presented by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  as far back as 18 th May. The report was then printed and circulated. That was nigh on 6 months ago, and the House has not been given the opportunity to debate it. There is an opportunity now for the Government to support this motion so that the matter can be debated. If the Government opposes this motion, one will be able to go on the highways and byways in the next few weeks and say that the Government is not prepared to stand behind the honourable member if appointed to deliver the report which was presented in this House on 18th May. I commend the motion to every clear thinking member of this House, on behalf of the ex-servicemen and particularly the serving servicemen of this country whom the Government says it, more than anybody else in the House, supports. Now honourable members opposite have the chance to stand up and be counted as to whether they are sincere or otherwise. 
I want to say something on this matter. I do so because of what the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has just said. This Minister, who is about to retire from this Parliament, to the last day, the last hour and the last minute is sticking up for the tall poppies. I was most interested to hear him say that the amounts by which the salaries will be raised and also the way in which salary increases may be given under the provisions of this Bill will be by the decision of a few people. Did I understand the Minister to say that salary increases were not given by ministerial approval alone but by the Higher Salaries Committee of Cabinet? 
On this very day in the last 24 hours of the Parliament the Government is opposing salary and wage increases for the workers, yet it has the temerity to put a Bill of this sort before the Committee and says, in effect: 'Whilst we oppose a salary increase for those who toil within the airline system - in TAA - we will have, in fact, another system which says to the top brass: "You have only to come and knock on out door and you will be granted salary increases".' Not only does the Minister agree with this, but also if he wants a little protection in what he does he can gather around him the Higher Salaries Committee of the Government of Australia. This body of 13 men, which could fit into a telephone box if it wanted to, will determine the salaries for the top strata. If the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  had a female member on his executive staff would she be discriminated against? 
Would she be discriminated against? In answer to the interjection, the Minister can have a wager outside the chamber if he likes. I oppose this Bill with all that I can muster. If I sound bitter, is it any wonder? I reiterate that honourable members opposite, as a Government, have never supported a wage and salary increase other than for themselves, top brass or the darned doctors in the medical profession. That is the only time they have ever put themselves on the line and said: 'All right, we agree to a salary increase.' They go along with a situation - I am dealing with the salaries provisions within the context of the Bill,  Mr Deputy 
Chairman - where there are minimum wage and salary earners within the framework of the airlines. Government supporters have never lifted a finger to take these people's salaries beyond $50 a week take home pay. Yet, they know the poverty line calculated by the professor chosen by this Government to carry out an investigation into poverty is $2 a week below the amount paid to some Government employees. 
It is an absolute disgrace. The Leader of the House, the Minister for Customs and Excise interposes. The Minister should get on his feet and justify the fact that he will permit the top brass who do not want an increase - the fat cats- 
