Has the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry been drawn to a statement by a former Australian Country Party member of this House,  Mr C.  W. Russell, published in the 'Australian' of 6th February 1970, in which it is claimed that most supporters of the Country Party would be surprised to learn the source of funds for McEwen House, the Country Party's new headquarters? Would the right honourable gentleman agree with  Mr Russell's  general propositions that the present policies of the Country Party are counter to the interests of those whom the Party purports to represent? Will the Minister allay public disquiet by revealing the source of funds for McEwen House? 
First of all, 1 should like to thank the electors of Kingston for showing their confidence in me by electing me to represent them in this Parliament. I shall do my best to justify their confidence by representing their interests and by representing the interests of all Australians. The 1969 election results showed a remarkable change in electoral fortunes from 1966. In my electorate of Kingston, after allowing for the redistribution, the swing from 1966 was 16%. The average swing throughout South Australia was 14%. Why did this swing to Labor occur? The answer to this question would depend on whom you asked. 1 shall quote only 2 answers, that of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and that of the Premier of South Australia. On the night of the Federal elections the Prime Minister, in a television interview, was asked how he viewed the big swing to Labor in South Australia.  His  reply was: 
It has a good deal to do. 1 suppose, with the feelings against the State Government. 
The following day the South Australian Premier,  Mr Hall,  was quoted in the Adelaide Press as saying that the Prime Minister's remark that the big swing to Labor in South Australia was caused by dissatisfaction with the State Government was said on the spur and in the stress of the moment. He went on: 
Events around Australia show there is nothing in that contention. Even the Australian Labor Party candidates who were successful pinned their success on Federal issues. 
So the Prime Minister thought that it was the State Government's fault and the South Australian Premier thought that it was the Commonwealth's fault. I have not quoted these 2 conflicting viewpoints for party political purposes but merely to illustrate a conflict between the present holders of office in the Commonwealth and in the States. Within the framework of their own concepts of federation, the present problem is irreconcilable. The upshot of this conflict between governments is that the State governments at present lack the funds to carry out their traditional responsibilities. Lacking power to levy income tax, the State governments are dependent on Commonwealth generosity to carry on. The problem has been that the money refunded to the State governments from income tax revenue is not sufficient to cope with the increased State government commitments. The State government's commitments are rising because of increased demands in quantity and quality. Not only is the population increasing but there are rising expectations in standards of education, hospital facilities and other communty services. Not only have the State governments' usual sources of revenue failed to cope with rising commitments, but increasing amounts of their budgets are taken up in repayments of capital and interest, because the Commonwealth has transferred most of its debt burden to the States. 
How is this impasse to be overcome? The State governments have sought to remove their financial straitjackets by a return of their powers to levy income tax. The insistence by the Commonwealth on retaining uniform tax is regarded as centralist. Centralist' to the present Liberal Party and Country Party Premiers means dictatorial, bureaucratic and other less polite adjectives. The argument of the State government"! centres on what they call the rights of the Governments of the sovereign States' or, more simply, 'State rights'. As so called State rights loom so large in this conflict, it is worth considering what they realy mean. T believe that the State rights issue is a counterfeit issue. Whether you are discussing off-shore oil, education or housing, state governments do not have rights. Neither does the Commonwealth Government have rights. No government has rights: governments have only responsibilities. Only the people have, rights, and the people of the States, of course, are the people of the Commonwealth. . 
A state of impasse now exists in the Commonwealth-State financial relationship in spite of the - concessions' gained by the States at the last Premiers Conference, and it will persist 'as long as governments cling to the meaningless abstraction called government, rights'. The present dispute between the Commonwealth and State governments must be resolved according to the needs of the people, not the jealousies of those in political power. The concept of the divine right of kings was rejected many years ago. It is high time that we did the same to the divine rights of governments. 1 would like to relate these thoughts to specific issues. I think most, honourable members will agree with me on the importance of education. The Australian Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should assume direct financial responsibility for all schools, whether they be primary, secondary or technical schools or preschools. An Australian schools commission analogous to the Australian Universities Commission should be set up to examine the requirements of all Australian schools, Government and non-Government, and recommend appropriate Commonwealth payments according to needs. Whenever I discuss this matter publicly I usually get a question from a teacher something along these lines: 'There is enough paternalism and bureaucracy in the State Education Department already. Will not Commonwealth intervention make this worse?' I think this is a valid question, but the answer is a clear no. The Commonwealth, through an Australian schools commission, will not decide how each $1 will be spent in each school throughout Australia. This approach would be quite wrong. This has already been demonstrated by the Government's grants for science blocks. In this case the Commonwealth predetermined the priorities. The only apparent basis for this, as far as I can see, is that here was a way of obtaining maximum kudos for a minimum outlay. As a result anomalies occurred. For example we have science buildings and laboratories but not enough science teachers. By this arbitrary determination of priorities the Commonwealth showed a very high-handed attitude. It is not surprising that this lofty attitude to the tying of grants is resented by officers in the State education departments. With some justification they look upon the Commonwealth as a Johnnycomelately in education, anyway. 
In my view the function of the Commonwealth should be to formulate national policy and what might be termed 'social and economic priorities' such as how education will be used as an instrument of social and economic welfare. Expenditure within each school would remain in the hands of the State authority. So broad priorities would be determined at a national level, but this would not mean centralisation of all educational policy making. In fact, I believe much of the decision making should bc decentralised. Many teachers complain that centralised control makes them feel that they have been treated like schoolchildren. I believe that there should be active participation in decision making not just by the teachers, but by the people about whom the decisions are made; that is, the students themselves. 
What are these socio-economic priorities which the Commonwealth Government should determine? A national education policy should enable every individual to develop and to realise all his or her abilities and to use them to best advantage. Nobody should be denied access to complete education merely through lack of finance. Some honourable members probably will say that this sounds trite and that nobody could disagree with this attitude. But, it is not the policy of the Government. In answer to a question during the last election campaign, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said, in relation to university fees: 
Frankly, 1 do not see why those not at university, but at work, with houses and the like to pay off, should have more money taken from them to pay university fees to people not good enough to get scholarships. 
Put another way, this means that only the most gifted students should receive Government assistance. Some students, although not in the top echelon, who could enter and pass a matriculation, university or technical course, cannot afford to do so. At the same time, other students who do not really need financial help are receiving it. 
This is an elitist education policy and it is based on a false premise. It assumes that money spent on education is money dissipated. In truth,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  education is a highly productive investment. In fact, some economists believe that expenditure on education is more productive than expenditure on fixed assets. I am not saying that the economic argument is the only basis for educational expenditure. As far as 1 am concerned, it is not the main one. But I do make this point in rebuttal of those who look at education expenditure from a purely economic standpoint. I have here another illustration of the attitude of this Government. It is an extract from a letter written by the present Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to a constituent of mine. The Minister said: 
As regards the allocation of Commonwealth Secondary Scholarships, I emphasise that, in the selection of scholarship holders, no distinction is made between candidates on the basis of what school they attend. Awards are made in open competition and entirely on merit. 
This is not the same concept as that of  Sir Robert  Menzies - not that I wish to appear to be an apostle of  Sir Robert  Menzies - who stated that the scholarships were created to 'benefit those who might otherwise miss, through family circumstances, the final 2 school years'. This attitude is clearly the more just one. 
If we are setting out to give everybody an equal opportunity in life, we should bear in mind that, if we give a child from an underprivileged family the same education as a child who has an adequate home environment, the child from the underprivileged family will make less of that same education. Therefore, to give both children the same opportunity in life, we must give additional educational assistance to the underprivileged one. In other words, if we are to have discrimination in education, it should be in favour of the underprivileged. I can think of no better place to start than with the Aboriginals. Australia cannot afford to have any section of its people under-educated. If 25% of its people are under-educated, it is not to just their disadvantage; it is to the disadvantage of the other 75% as well. The Government has recognised this in respect of the nonGovernment schools by its per capita grants. How about a fair deal for the Government schools as well? 
I wish now to discuss another problem which is related to the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and State governments. That is the problem of the cities, a problem which should really be called 'urban mal-development'. While individual Government members have acknowledged the existence of the problem, it has not yet received official recognition from the Government. The only thing in the Governor-General's Speech which could be a reference to urban problems is the reference to a proposed Bureau of Transport Economics. It is not clear at present what its scope will be but, assuming that urban transport is to be one of its responsibilities, I shall say something of this Bureau later. 1 wish to refer particularly to urban transport, not because transport is the only consideration in planning cities but because there is an alarming tendency to put cars first and people last. The task for responsible government must be to decide the needs of people and then to plan cities according to these needs. In such plans, somebody, sooner or later, must make a responsible decision on the relative place of public and private transport. The motor car, invaluable as it is - in fact, many would say indispensable - has now become our master instead of our servant. Cannot we have the motor car without having this devastation of suburbs by freeways, the planned obsolesence with waste of resources, smog, noise and the road toll with its cost in lives and money? What form of insanity are we suffering from that the motor car is allowed to rule our lives? 
In my home city of Adelaide, the need for a remedy to this social illness has become apparent by the now infamous Metropolitan Adelaide Transportation Study or the MATS Plan. This plan was based on projected population trends and traffic flows. Although representatives of several Government bodies were on the Steering Committee, the Highways Department is the only one whose influence is apparent in the whole plan. It looks as if the planners merely asked: 'How can we fit more cars into the metropolitan area?' The ultimate results, if this nightmare is allowed to proceed, will be miles of concrete carving up suburbs, and the destruction of the city area, which largely will give way to parking areas. The absurdity of the whole idea is made apparent by the planners' own admission that the freeways are not going to improve the traffic congestion anyway but that they will only stop the present, situation from getting worse. Where will we go from there? Will we have more freeways? Or will we have more deaths on the road? 
And what about smog? This matter has had some attention from the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. The Senate Select Committee has recommended that some attention be given to controlling exhaust emissions from cars. But, even if the report of the Committee is acted upon, the effect of anti-pollution measures should be quite clear. The Committee looked at the possibility of an electric car being evolved, or a car powered by steam. After-burners were studied and carburettor modifications were considered also. These result in more complete fuel combustion. So too does the use of liquid propane for fuel. But, whatever these ingenious proposals can do in reducing smog, they still cannot prevent consumption of oxygen and production of carbon dioxide. It is the rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide which may be the most sinister of all effects. The only way that this can be controlled is by reducing the amount of combustion taking place. An enormous wasted combustion occurs in our cities with each individual motor vehicle bearing an average of only 1.2 persons per vehicle trip. Surely, the most logical way of overcoming this is by increasing use of public transport for commuters; in other words, to have more people per vehicle. So, let us commute by public transport and keep our motor cars for other purposes than driving to work. 
So, here is a major task for governments, Commonwealth and State, to save our cities. As the cities swell like malignant growths, time is precious. Unfortunately, urban planning is in its infancy. The first urgent need is a body to co-ordinate the activities of all government departments and semigovernment authorities. Government departments have been very well described as working on parallel lines, and parallel lines never meet. There could be no better example of this than the Metropolitan Adelaide Transportation Study. This was released in 1968. At the time, the planners said that all aspects of urban development had been taken into consideration, such as how private and public transport relates to different forms of land use. This is to be expected. Our roads and railways are planned after we have decided where we will put our residential areas, our shops, our factories, our schools and our parks and reserves. 
Adelaide's transport planners assured us that types of land use had been properly considered. But now an extraordinary document has appeared in Adelaide entitled 'Adelaide 2000'. In it, the State Planning Authority is asking for suggestions from the public on how Adelaide should develop. Should we have metropolitan districts; or high rise development; or decentralisation; or satellite towns, and so on? The State Planning Authority intends to bring down a revised development plan for Adelaide in a year or so. I wonder if South Australians realise the significance of this. A system of freeways is a fait accompli - yet the city which those freeways are meant to serve has not yet been planned. Surely this is a case of putting the cart before the horse. 
The need for Commonwealth Government involvement is vital and urgent. In the case of this transportation proposal, although all the South Australian governmental and semi-governmental authorities put their heads together, they could not provide a plan for a city for people. The problem is not in any way due to the individuals in the government authorities, it is just that the problem is too great. No single State, and certainly not a small State like South Australia, has sufficient facilities to make an in-depth study of all the ramifications of urban planning. The Australian people must pool their resources. I am not talking about the Commonwealth just taking an interest in this matter, I am advocating really massive Commonwealth involvement. The Governor-General's Speech mentions a proposal to set up a Bureau of Transport Economics. The title makes me apprehensive. If the Commonwealth is only going to study urban transport in isolation from other urban problems, it will only be perpetuating the problems which already exist, not only in Adelaide, but in Sydney with its outline plan, and to a lesser extent in other cities as well. 
The Commonwealth so far has shirked its responsibility. The Government goes all out to people the cities, with its immigration programme, but then washes its hands of what is to become of the people. It leaves the State Governments to house them, educate them, and provide them with community services. I hope the time is not far distant when the Commonwealth will set up a department to pool the nation's resources and skills in the field of urban development, and to provide funds and advice to the States, as well as acting as a co-ordinating body. On a practical level, one of the first things which needs to be done is to remove the system of tying grants to the States specifically for roads. 
I have already mentioned arbitrary predetermined priorities in relation to science blocks for schools. It is equally stupid in the case of road grants. Funds should be spent where they will satisfy a need, not where someone thinks they might buy votes. For that matter, I cannot see the logic in the suggestion that all petrol tax revenue should be allocated to roads. I fail to see why the requirements for road funds in any one year should coincide with revenue from petrol tax for that year. It would be equally sensible to spend all excise from liquor on improving breweries. There is a clear need to reorientate commuter traffic into public transport. This is a political decision which will have to be made sooner or later. It is better sooner than later. This matter must not degenerate into a party political issue. I hope that ad members in this House will speak with one voice to save our cities from destruction. We are spending millions and millions of dollars annually to defend our country from a supposed foreign threat. It is high time we spent a few dollars on defending our cities against the real threat - ourselves. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the rise in gross national product at constant prices per head  of  population in Australia in each of the last  10  financial years. 
Is he able to provide the corresponding figures for the United States of America, Japan, the United Kingdom and the countries of Western Europe. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many items were investigated by the Tariff Board in the last 5 years with a view to- 
imposition or increase of a duty, and 
removal or reduction of a duty. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise and concerns the invitation that has been circulated from the Minister to all honourable members - I presume that I am not the only honourable member invited - to a film censorship showing in Canberra next week. ' Does the Minister consider that parliamentarians are less likely to be corrupted or depraved by obscene films than the general public? Does the Minister have any evidence that the persons who censor films in Australia are being corrupted or depraved by repeated exposure to obscene films? Finally, has tha Minister any evidence of anyone, anywhere, ever, being corrupted or depraved by obscene films, and if not, will he agree that film censorship is an outdated, unjustifiable breach of civil liberties? 
Before I address my few remarks to the Committee I should like to say that I cannot understand why the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  did not exercise his right of reply to the second reading debate. One can only conclude from his failure to do so that he had no answer to the submissions put forward by the Opposition. But to come to the substance of what I want to say: With respect 1 think that the Minister has misconstrued the meaning of the Opposition's amendment. The amendment reads: 
Omit 'is hereby ratified and approved', insert shall not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
The meaning of that - the Minister may not agree with this interpretation - is that a computer study be done on the effect of both dams being built. I have had a look at the reports the Minister has just mentioned, namely, the reports of the River Murray Commission relating to the future development of the water resources of the River Murray made in January 1969. Those are the 3 reports to which he referred. There are indeed different studies on the varying capacities of the two dams - Chowilla and Dartmouth - but there is not anywhere any study of yields if the two dams were constructed simultaneously; in other words, of what would be the yields if we had both Chowilla and Dartmouth - 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Government and the Opposition seem to be speaking somewhat at cross purposes in this debate. Government supporters seem to be approaching this matter with a view to defending Dartmouth against the attacks of the Opposition, which is accused of being opposed to the Dartmouth storage. This is not so. We have no quarrel with the principal purpose of this Bill, which is to provide for the construction of a storage at Dartmouth. Let us be clear on that. However, we believe that it is important that the door be not closed to construction of a dam at Chowilla. In his second reading speech on the River Murray Waters Bill the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
Clause  13  provides for the deferment of construction of the Chowilla Reservoir as agreed by the  4  governments. 
The Minister is well aware, as is the Premier of Victoria and everybody else, that deferment of the Chowilla project at this stage, as envisaged in the Bill, will mean cancellation of Chowilla for all time. 
This is the point which the honourable member for Mallee did not make clear earlier in the debate. We submit that if this Bill is passed it will mean the end of Chowilla for all time. Some blandishments were uttered by honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  to the effect that the Government would be keeping its options open regarding the construction of Chowilla if this legislation were passed, but this is not so. If this legislation is passed it is curtains for Chowilla. This was virtually admitted by the Minister in his second reading speech when he said: 
It was also agreed that ... the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement, which had been regarded as a temporary measure pending completion of Chowilla, should be continued indefinitely. 
In other words, the Agreement now goes on forever; it is no longer contingent on completion of the Chowilla proposal. The life of the present arrangement regarding the Menindee Lakes is no longer related in any way to construction of Chowilla. As the River Murray Waters Agreement now stands, construction of the Chowilla dam shall be continued without cessation, other than may be due to unavoidable causes, until the work is completed. That is the Agreement as ratified by the Parliaments of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and the Commonwealth in 1963. That is the Agreement which was eulogised by  Sir Robert  Menzies and, I believe, also by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  in 1963. It is still articulately and eloquently supported by that former Liberal Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford. This is the substance of the present Agreement and this is how it will remain until this Bill is ratified by each of the 4 Parliaments. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said earlier tonight that the 1963 Agreement was no longer in force because this legislation has been ratified by the Parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria, but this is not so. The River Murray Waters Agreement stands as passed in 1963 and ratified by the 4 Parliaments. That is how it stands until it is ratified by each of the 3 State parliaments and the Commonwealth Parliament. Once this happens - that is, assuming that this Bill is passed and is ratified by all 4 Parliaments - the Chowilla proposal will go back into the melting pot. 
This Bill will amend clause 24 of the River Murray Waters Agreement so that Chowilla will be deferred until the contracting governments agree mat the work shall proceed. In other words, the approval of all 4 governments would have to be obtained before work on Chowilla may be resumed. What chance is there of all 4 governments agreeing now? How would  Sir Henry  Bolte react, in the unlikely event of his still being Premier of Victoria after the next State elections? He has already stated that he is prepared to see Dartmouth jettisoned, despite its benefits lo Victoria. If Dartmouth is refused ratification by any of the Parliaments he will spend Victoria's annual contribution of $4m on something else. This being so what chance is mere of his agreeing to Chowilla? This point was raised by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who asked why should die Victorians agree to building Chowilla if they are not to get much out of it. I do not know how this aspect squares with the argument advanced by the honourable member for Angas, who said that the options regarding the construction of Chowilla are still open. There seems to be an area of conflict between the honourable member for Angas and the honourable member for Wakefield. I challenge any honourable member opposite to show that this Agreement will mean anything other than the finish of Chowilla. 
The honourable member for Mallee did not disprove my assertion in any way in his speech. 
The proposed works on Lake Victoria are a further clear indication of what the Government intends to do. The River Murray Commission proposes to spend a further $7m on Lake Victoria. If Chowilla were to go ahead later this $7m worth of public works, paid for by public money, would be inundated. Does the Minister seriously expect us to believe that it is the Government's intention to go ahead with S7m worth of work in the anticipation that subsequently all of it will be inundated? For goodness sake let the Government come out in the open and disclose its real intentions. I repeat that the Labor Party is not opposing construction of the storage at Dartmouth, but the Agreement must be varied so that the Chowilla reservoir is not shelved permanently. What we shall be seeking in the Committee stage will be a further study by the River Murray Commission of the feasibility of a two dam proposal so that Chowilla and Dartmouth may be proceeded with concurrently. 
I am concerned that so far we have had insufficient data from the Commission to enable South Australians to be completely happy about Dartmouth. I see that the honourable member for Mallee is now withdrawing from the chamber. I have seen more prudent retreats in my time but seldom more solitary ones. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! There is no substance in the point taken by the honourable member. 
I am concerned that there has not been a benefit cost analysis of the Dartmouth proposals. There has been only an analysis of cost. The honourable member for Wakefield raised this point, although in a different context. He said that he was concerned only with engineering. It is not just a matter of engineering. It is a matter of what we are to do with the water made available as a result of any engineering projects that may be carried out. This is a matter of agricultural economics as well as engineering. 
Since the first day of the present session I have had on the notice paper a question addressed to the Minister for National Development in these terms: 
What is the maximum additional diversion of water which would be made possible to Kew South Wales and Victoria from the River Murray by the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. 
To what use are New South Wales and Victoria expected to put the additional water thus diverted. 
Has a cost benefit analysis been carried out on the various projects on which New South Wales and Victoria will use the additional water. 
What effect on salinity of the river in South Australia is expected from this additional wafer use in New South Wales and Victoria. 
So it is not just a matter of engineering. These are vital questions concerned with the construction of the Dartmouth dam. These are questions that are not answered by the purely engineering standpoint that has been taken in the report of the River Murray Commission. I think this is something we are entitled to have answered. I do not think it would be a difficult question to answer; it is a fairly straightforward one. Yet the Minister has failed to answer it, although it has been on the notice paper for some 5 or 6 weeks. We already know the vital use that South Australia is making and will continue to make crf the River Murray waters. It is not just for agricultural purposes but used for industrial and domestic purposes as well. Without the River Murray South Australia would not have developed to its present state. In fact it is most probable that, if we had not had reports of Captain Barker and Captain Sturt in the 1830s about the great waterway that was available close to what is now Adelaide, the area of metropolitan Adelaide would not have been colonised. So this is what the River Murray means to South Australians. 
I think it is fair to ask: What use will be made of River Murray waters by New South Wales and Victoria? What will be grown? What are the marketing prospects for whatever is to be grown? What will be the effect of salinity on the river downstream in South Australia when these products are grown? Where will they be sold? Will we have to subsidise the people who are producing these goods upstream in New South Wales and Victoria? The Minister has already stated in his second reading speech that the upstream States have already entered into commitments for the use of water from the Murray system in anticipation of the availability of additional supplies. So we can anticipate that when water from the additional diversion at Dartmouth becomes available to the upstream States the supply will be taken up quickly. In such a circumstance salinity control from the present Dartmouth-Lake Victoria complex may not be adequate for the water when it reaches South Australia. Yet if this agreement passes, South Australia has no safeguard. There will be no provision for a storage downstream from Lake Victoria, no safeguards of future controls over salinity and no safeguards against a further important contingency - drought. In a drought year there is no guarantee as to the volume of water that will be available. The Agreement provides that in a year of restriction the water available shall be shared equally between the  3  States. 
A storage at Chowilla may be necessary in that case to prevent South Australia being embarrassed by a shortage of water in a dry year. What the Opposition is askingfor is a study of the feasibility of building the 2 dams. We cannot discount this idea on the basis of cost on the knowledge of the proposals at present. For a start we have only a cost analysis on individual storages of varying capacities; that is, we have cost analyses on varying capacities for the Dartmouth and the Chowilla proposals. As far as I can tell, we do not have a cost benefit analysis. Furthermore we cannot assume that the cost of a 2-dam proposal would necessarily be equal to the sum of the individual estimates for Chowilla and Dartmouth. In other words, if $xm is necessary to build Chowilla and $ym is necessary to build Dartmouth, we should not necessarily assume that $xm plus $ym will be the total outlay for building the 2 dams. It could welt be that a smaller storage could be built at Dartmouth or at Chowilla or both in such an integrated system and this might be the best prospect for a cost-benefit analysis. 
It has also been suggested that if we oppose this Bill we will be unduly prolonging the building of the Dartmouth dam. I would like to submit that there would be no undue delay because we already have much of the data that would be required for a computer run on having the 2 dams built at the same time. We already have the stream gaugings that were used at the time of the last River Murray Commission report, which was released last year. We also have the study of salinity from the consultants' report which was made available at the same time. So such a study is a practical proposition. It is not asking a great deal; it is a very reasonable request. The Opposition strongly feels that Chowilla cannot be discarded at this stage if further water use is to occur in New South Wales and Victoria. I have mentioned the commitments entered into in anticipation of further water becoming available. What happens when this demand has been met after Dartmouth has been built? Who is to say that further demand will not occur and will it be acceded to? In such circumstances we must have a safeguard to the quality and the quantity of water downstream. I therefore ask all honourable members to bear in mind that this Bill closes the door on Chowilla for all time and I urge them to support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total value of exports of kangaroo meat and other kangaroo products from Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
How many animals are represented in this  value  in each of these years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. What is the average waiting time in the casualty departments of the major teaching hospitals in Australia before casualties are first seen by a medical officer? For patients admitted through casualty departments at these hospitals and requiring immediate surgery, what is the average time lapse between arrival at the hospital and examination by the surgeon who will be responsible for the surgical treatment? How do these times compare with those in equivalent hospitals in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Sweden? If these facts are not known to the Minister, on what criteria does he base his claim that Australian teaching hospitals subsidised by the Commonwealth are as good as any in the world? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many persons employed on the staff of the Tariff Board are engaged in full-time research. 
What are the qualifications of these persons. 
What is the nature of the work in which they are engaged. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What are the minimum, maximum and average areas of holdings producing palm oil owned by (a) indigenes and (b) non-indigenes in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
We are debating a Bill for an Act to amend the National Health Act 1953-1969. The National Health Act is described as an Act relating to the provision of pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits and of medical and dental services. I deplore the fact that this Bill does not relate to these things. It does not relate to the provision of these services. The Bill does very little more than provide limited medical and hospital insurance. It does nothing about the general problem of national health. We of the Opposition feel that the title 'National Health Bill' is somewhat grandiose and pretentious, lt is applied to something that was conceived in haste as a result of political pressure put on the Government prior to the last elections. Anything pertaining to the health of the Australian people in this legislation is purely accidental. I cannot understand why Government supporters who have participated in the debate have avoided the issue of the quality of medics' care and have confined themselves strictly to the subject of medical and hospital insurance. I concede that the way in which the medical profession and the hospitals are to receive their finance is important but surely we as a national Parliament should have wider responsibilities. 
We of the Labor Party feel that the primary concern must be for the patient. It is our function to see that the people of Australia get the quality of medical care which they deserve, namely the best possible standard. Until a few months ago this Government defended its health scheme as being the best in the world. It said that it was without peer and pointed to the awful Socialist schemes operating in other parts of the world. Tt pointed to what it saw as deficiencies in those schemes, particularly in the British national health scheme. Anybody who has examined in any way the history of the British national health scheme will know that any faults in that scheme are clue to the 13 years of tory rule in Great Britain, during which a systematic attempt was made to bankrupt the scheme established by a Labor government. The Government defended its scheme until last year by saying that it was the best in the world. I use the word 'scheme' advisedly because that is all it is. The Government has schemed; it has contrived to put forward this document bearing the pretentious title National Health Bill. In fact it does nothing really for the health of the people of Australia. Probably a more appropriate title for this  Bill  would be National Hea'th Insurance  Bill  or National Medical Profession Remuneration Bill. 
Before the last election no campaign on health was really necessary. The Australian Labor Party campaigned very strongly on the question of health insurance, but debate on the subject was redundant and superfluous because everybody in Australia knew that the scheme was no good. The Government argued, until its supporters were blue in the face, that it had a good scheme but the patients knew otherwise. They knew that they were paying twice for their health insurance. They were paying once by way of contributions to a health fund, believing they were adequately covered, but when the bill came from the doctor they found that in many cases they also had to pay a good percentage of the bill. In many cases the&gt; had to pay out of their own pockets about one-third of the sum involved. One-third was the average, In some cases it was as much as one-half. In some cases - there is evidence of this in the report of the Nimmo Committee - the sum they had to pay exceeded 50%. So the Australian people knew that the scheme then operating was no good. 
Then political pressure built up. It wa&gt; potentiated by the forthright and constructive proposals put forward by the Australian Labor Party - and the Government hastily conceived its response. Previous speakers have alluded already to the evidence which indicated that the scheme was conceived in haste. They have referred to the great margin by which the estimates of the Government as to the cost of its proposals to the community was in error. As I hope to point out later if I have time, this scheme does not implement the Labor Party's proposals but it does acknowledge all the principal criticisms which the Labor Party levelled at the Government system last year 
The National Health Bill takes no account of the whale question of the health of the Australian people. There is a whole range o' areas which should be considered by the national Government. It is not sufficient for the Government to say that health is the responsibility of State governments The State governments are saying  this  already. However, this does not apply only in the sphere of health. It applies in education and other fields. It is pointless to argue that health is the responsibility of the States or to talk about State rights. It is pointless, on the other hand, to talk about Commonwealth Government rights. Whether or not we agree with the existence of State governments they are a fact of life. 
What is holding Australia back at the moment is the tug of war that is going on between the Commonwealth and the State governments. We must acknowledge the existence of the various States and not talk about State rights. We must think of what i-&gt; in the best interests of the people of Australia, and the various governments must work in close co-operation and consultation There are instances in this Bill which indicate that this has not happened. Thi* honourable member for Cowper endeavoured to say that various matters relating to hospital deficits have been referred to State governments. That is not so. According to my information, from South Australia, the State governments and their health departments have been waiting for the Commonwealth to do something positive about the situation that is facing hospitals in all States. 
One matter in particular which has arisen is the payment of honorary staff. It is the policy of the medical profession generally - I hope it is the policy of the Government: certainly it is the policy of the Opposition - that we should abolish the anachronistichonorary system. The State governments, certainly the South Australian Government, have paid lip service to this idea. Now there is to be an election in South Australia and the Liberal Minister for Health, realising that the next South Australian Government will be a Labor government and will have to implement such a scheme, has said that the Liberal Party would implement the payment of consultants at the public hospitals as from January 1971. 1 hope all State governments soon will be in a poition to say that they can implement such a system. lt is not just a question of remuneration for the doctors; it is in the best interests of the patients that there should bc a properly salaried or sessionally paid consultant staff on hand at hospitals. We should not have th s present sytem of honoraries with consultants visiting public hospitals once or twice a week and being unable, however well intentioned they may be, to supervise total patient care. In many cases there are registrars in hospitals who can handle this situation quite competently. But particularly in cases of emergency it is absolutely essential that the whole clinic, from the consultant down to the resident medical officer, should be available the whole time. 
I suggest that the only way in which this can be accomplished is by the implementation of a salaried system in hospitals. The Commonwealth Government should be looking into this matter. So far it has taken no interest in it. Two weeks ago the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  asked the Minister for Health whether he was concerned about 250 hospital beds in Victoria be ng out of action due to lack of staff. The answer given by the Minister seemed to be symptomatic of the approach of the Commonwealth Government. He said that he would refer the matter to the authority responsible - the Victorian Government. 
It should be done in consultation. All that is happening at the moment is that the Commonwealth Government is washing its hands of the problem. At the same time the State governments, faced with rising commitments and fixed incomes, are saying that they cannot meet these commitments. They are saying that the Commonwealth should concern itself too. 
1 presume the question is as to whether the Australian Medical Association advocates this system. I cannot speak for non-members of the Association. It is the policy of the Australian Medical Association in most States at this stage to abolish the honorary system. I hope I will have a chance in a later debate to refer to the nursing problems in hospitals. There are numerous instances of this throughout Australia; there is a nursing problem in every capital city. The shortage of nursing staff in public hospitals has reached crisis point. There was a report in the Press earlier this week to the effect that nurses in hospitals in Victoria will refuse to carry out non-nursing duties. This indicates there is a general shortage not only of nursing staff but general hospital staff. The same situation applies at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in South Australia. There is a great crisis in staffing in public hospitals throughout Australia. The situation is extremely serious in South Australia where numerous hospital beds and even an entire wing of the Royal Adelaide Hospital are out of operation because there is not sufficient nursing staff to run them. The situation has been pointed up by a meeting some weeks ago called by the Royal Australian Nursing Federation at which the following resolution was passed: 
That RANF take all necessary steps to close hospital beds to all non-urgent cases when properly trained nursing staff are not available for the adequate welfare of the patient. 
This is an extremely serious matter. I suggest it is something which the State governments cannot manage by themselves. The Commonwealth Government must take responsibility for this; it must take an initiative. I am not suggesting that the Commonwealth should lord it over the States and say that it will take over completely. Corrective steps must be taken in consultation. However the State governments cannot be left to run health services by themselves. 
Another matter which the Commonwealth Government has overlooked is the deployment of medical manpower. In South Australia some years ago something constructive was done about this. I refer to the Nicholson report that was tabled in the Legislative Council in South Australia. It related to the projected need for medical manpower in Australia. This is something that the Commonwealth Government must look at. If it is a national government it must look at national priorities. It must see what we need in the way of medical graduates overall. We need to know how many general practitioners will be required in the cities and country areas and we must also examine the requirements in the various specialties. The increase in medical knowledge will mean a proliferation of the number of specialists we will have and the number we will require. We must be prepared to educate the undergraduates so that they will be able to take a place in the community where they can best serve the public. A national government must look overall at the nature of medical care and the medical needs of the people. 
This once again raises the question as to how we can use our resources best. Do we need more diagnostic centres or do we need more geriatric centres? Or perhaps we need more money spent on research into various aspects such as occupational medicine. We need a national health commission and a national hospitals commission. We must have the optimum deployment of hospital facilities throughout Australia so that we do not have small hospitals that are overcapitalised and are unnecessarily using equipment. We do not want the duplication of facilities. The Opposition feels it is unnecessary to have in every country town over-large hospitals which are not being fully utilised. This constitutes a waste of national resources and we cannot afford to waste any of our national resources at this time. We must look at the quality of medical care both in general and specialist practice in the cities and in the country. These are all vital national issues and they should be the concern of the national government. I can say quite confidently that these are matters that a Federal Labor government would make very much its responsibility. We would certainly not subject our National Health Bill to the strictures of mere hospital and medical insurance. 
J now come to the question of medical and hospital insurance. The principal criticisms of the health scheme that were put forward by the Opposition last year were, first of all, that the voluntary health scheme as it operates is costly and inefficient to run. There are very high administration costs in each of the funds. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned this when he spoke. There are also excessive reserves accumulating in many of the larger funds. I give an instance of this. One of the funds in New South Wales in its annual report last year stated that its reserves came to about $15m. This was equivalent to the annual turnover of that fund. We could not but agree that this is an excessive reserve. We also charged that there is an excessive duplcation of funds. This means duplication of administration costs. 
The other principal criticism we had of the Government's scheme was that it was inequitable because of the way in which the scheme was financed. There are various ways in which health insurance schemes can be financed. These vary with the number of different methods of taxation. We have the progressive method of taxation - that is, income tax - under which the rate of taxation in cents per $1 paid rises as the income rises. Another method that was suggested in the Labor Party's health proposals at the time of the last election was that the scheme should be financed by a flat levy of 14% of the taxable income of a family up to a maximum of $100 per family. 1 suppose this might be called a progressive form of tax but it is not quite as progressive as income tax because the rate does not rise with the income. Another method is the regressive taxation method which might apply, say, to sales tax on cars. This is a flat rate. Of course, this is an excessive imposition on a person with a low income or a person with a large family. 
The way the existing voluntary health scheme is financed is worse still because of the system of taxation deductions. The person with a higher income, who pays the same contributions, gets a larger deduction. So the person with the lower income pays more net. The person with the higher income pays less net. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  who has just come into the House, made one constructive suggestion on this aspect yesterday. As far as it goes, I believe it is quite a good proposal. He suggested that a better way for the Government to have gone about its scheme so as to provide subsidies to the low income earners would have been to withdraw income tax concessions and to increase the Commonwealth benefit. The proposals that the Opposition put forward were based on one simple premise, lt was that with the advances in medical knowledge and technology we are bound to spend a greater percentage of our gross national product on health. As the medical profession and the medical scientists can offer more it is obvious there will be a greater usage by the community of those services. If we are not going to penalise the people on lower incomes and create a wider gap for them to pay, if we intend to give everybody the same health care regardless of their means, we must have some sliding scale of contributions. 
Accordingly, as is well known now, the Australian Labour Party proposed that it would introduce a national health insurance commission with which everybody would be universally insured. Of course, the advantages of this were, first of all, that there would only be one fund and there would only be one reserve fund. This reserve fund could be kept down if it were underwritten by the Federal Treasury. The administration costs would be decreased because there would not be a number of funds overlapping each other and competing against each other. The Opposition feels also that the administration costs of the scheme itself would be relatively lower than would be the costs of a conglomeration of individual funds because the collection costs would be decreased. It would involve putting only one extra line on the taxation form. The other advantage is that the scheme would be financed by a levy on taxable income, that is, on a sliding scale. 
Before the Parliament was dissolved for the election last year the Minister for Health was denying all the criticisms that were made of the scheme by the Opposition. However he has now acknowledged the existence of faults that were criticised. I would like to have a look at these individually and refer to the Minister's second reading speech. In the first place we claimed the administration costs of the funds were excessive. What does the Minister say in his second reading speech? He said: 
In future a report, comprising the financial returns submitted by registered medical and hospital benefits organisations will be tabled in both Houses of Parliament. For this purpose organisations will be required to submit returns each year in respect of the year ending on 30th June. 
In other words here is a tacit admission that the funds have not been operating as efficiently as they could in the best interests of the consumer, and that in the future Parliament will be acting as a watchdog over these funds. 
Secondly, we criticised the excessive reserves that the funds were accumulating. The Minister again denied that the reserves were excessive. What does he say in his second reading speech? He said: 
A policy will be applied under which larger funds' 'free' reserves - that is, reserves in excess of amounts held against unpresented claims and contributions paid in advance - will generally be limited to the equivalent of 3 months' contribution income. 
We also claimed there was unnecessary duplication of funds. The Minister has not really made any positive proposals on this point but in his second reading speech he said: 
Approval for an open fund to operate in a particular State will not be continued unless it is shown that economic and efficient operations in that State can be expected.  1  would like to say something now on the question of subsidies that are being provided for low income earners and people receiving sickness benefit. Although this has some merit and has provided considerable relief for people on lower incomes, it is a most inefficient way to go about it. Very serious criticisms can be made of this method of providing relief to low income earners. In the first place, the level of eligibility is very low. When the weekly income is above  $42.50  the amount of subsidy is reduced; when it is above  $48.50  the subsidy goes altogether. It is a pretty low level. It is not much above the poverty line and is considerably below the level of income at which, when means tests are applied, a patient becomes ineligible for public hospital treatment. The second criticism - this is implied in what I said before - is that the range of incomes over which the subsidy applies is very small. In other words, it has a very steep rise because the subsidy operates only within a limited range. Over and above that, the full amount must be paid. 
Another criticism, as  1  mentioned before, is the way that this operates because of our taxation deduction system. A person who is earning  $42  per week is not required to make any contribution towards health insurance. A person who is earning  $50  per week must pay a contribution of  $57  per year for medical and hospital insurance. That is for the standard award rate. The net payment for a person earning  $130  per week is down to  $42  per year. A further very serious criticism of the subsidy scheme as it will operate under this Bill is that it still leaves people uninsured who through ignorance have failed to register with a fund. 
The way in which this section of the Bill will be administered deserves very serious criticism. There will be a large number of recipients. This in itself is a problem because it will mean excessively high administration costs. As the minimum wage as determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will be increasing, these costs will have to be reviewed from time to time. That is a very inefficient way of doing it. I wish to refer here to one paragraph from the report of the Canadian Royal Commission on Health Services. That Royal Commission said:   . . the number of individuals who would require subsidy to meet total health services costs is so large that no government could impose the means test procedure on so many citizens or would be justified in establishing a system requiring so much unnecessary administration. 
So these really are all restraints in a voluntary health system, lt has been said that the new universal health insurance system proposed by the Australian Labor Party implies compulsion. Well, it is no more compulsion than is the payment of taxation or the payment of water rates. If I wished to sink a bore in my backyard to obtain water I would be perfectly at liberty to do so. But I would never suggest that. I should be exempted from the payment of water rates. In fact, the voluntarism as applied to health insurance is a restraint. Once voluntarism is abolished the system is able to be adjusted with proper security and equity. That is why I believe that it is much better that we have a sliding scale of contributions starting from earnings of $45 per week or $50 per week rather than having a scheme whereby various grades of lower incomes are subsidised and then that benefit is cut out altogether. 
I wish to refer briefly to a couple of matters, the first of which is the question of differential rebates. I am opposed in principle to the idea of differential rebates because I think a system of 2 rebates does imply that there are 2 standards of service. I suppose that, in the context of this Bill, under which we will have 2 lots of common fees, we will have to accept something along these lines, otherwise we will oblige the person who goes to a specialist to pay more. However, I feel that no real necessity exists to have 2 sets of common fees. We should have 1 system of rebates and I schedule for fees. It should not be difficult to have 1 set of fees. What has happened with regard to common fees at the moment is that a set of common fees has been worked out for specialists and a set of common fees has been calculated for general practitioners. Surely it would be desirable to have just 1 set of common fees. 
If a person is able to perform a service he should be able to get what is the common fee or the scheduled fee for that service. If he is not capable of performing the operation or procedure adequately surely he should not be doing it. We believe that the scheme would best be implemented by having a system of proper accreditation where medical practitioners are enabled to perform the operation if they are subject to proper audit. If they do that, it does not necessarily imply that a person must be a specialist in the sense of having post-graduate degrees. 
The proposition has been put forward by the medical profession in the last few days that it would be better for a patient to split the $5 moiety among the different doctors rather than pay the $5 to one when multiple services are required in respect of one operation. This assumes what is. I believe, a fallacy. This is that it is necessary for the patient to pay anything at all in respect of any individual service. I believe that the relationship that a patient has with his doctor really has nothing to do with whether or not he pays for each service. Surely the medical profession would not suggest that its relationship with its pensioner patients or its repatriation patients is any worse than its relationship with its private patients. Surely people who are treated in public hospitals are quite satisfied with the treatment that they receive and are quite happy with the doctorpatient relationship in most instances. 
I wish to refer briefly to one matter raised by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  and also by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  They said that they hoped that the Government would define what a specialist is so that each case could be judged by specialist registration committees. I disagree with this proposal. In fact, 1 hope that the Government will not define what is a specialist. This should be left to the medical profession itself. It should determine who should do what procedures. It should be performed at the level of the medical practitioner and not at the level of the Government or a government department. 
The specialist registration committees that are set up by this Bill will determine the criteria in the same way as the specialist registration committees do in the various States, as those committees operate at the moment. In conclusion,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I indicate that I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: recruited in each District of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and the Districts in which such workers were employed have not been kept. 12,145 new agreements were made in the single year 1969. 
However statistics are kept of the total numbers of indigenous workers employed in each District in the Territory tabulated against the Districts of their birth. These are attached for 30th June 1968. Those for 30th June 1969 are not yet available. Similar information is not available for earlier years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that use of the south-west runway of the West Beach air terminal was made by jet aircraft between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. over the weekend of Easter 1970.. 
Is it a fact that a curfew applies to the airport between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
If these flights occurred, were they authorised by the Minister. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that similar flights will not be authorised in future. 
asked  the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the maximum additional diversion of water which would be made possible to New South Wales and Victoria from the River Murray by the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. 
To what use are New South Wales and Victoria expected to put the additional water thus diverted. 
Has a cost-benefit analysis been carried out on the various projects on which New South Wales and Victoria will use the additional water. 
What effect on salinity of the river in South Australia is expected from this additional water use in New South Wales and Victoria. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. As the Minister assisting the Treasurer he is no doubt aware that one of the principal effects of the Government's anti-inflationary measures will be to reduce the number of approvals for home construction. I ask: In view of the expected decrease in housing approvals, has the Minister modified his stated target of 175,000 immigrants for the year 1970? If he has not reduced this target, will the effect of a migrant inflow of this order tend to increase the demand for housing, thus having itself an inflationary effect? Has the Minister issued instructions to his departmental officers to warn prospective migrants that the Government has a conscious policy of reducing the housing available to them? 

 - Mr Chairman, shortly I will move circulated amendment (21). Before so doing, I wish to add my protest to those of my colleagues on this side of the Committee regarding the way in which this Bill is being rushed through the Parliament. It seems to me to be quite hypocritical for the Government to say that this Bill must be put through in a very great hurry. We waited around for 4 months after the last election. The Parliament sat for 1 day only during that time. All that time, we could have been attending to the legislative business of this country. The Parliament was kept in recess except for that 1 day sitting for the whole of those4 months. I do not think that the Government is really justified in saying that this Bill has to be pushed through in a great hurry. 
I also wish to add that all these amendments that the Opposition has put forward to this legislation are not prejudicial in any way to what the Labor Party will do when it forms the government of Australia. All we are trying to do with these amendments is to make a bad Bill not quite so bad. We are trying to get rid of some of the worst features of the legislation. These amendments do not relate in any way to the health programme of the Australian Labor Party. 

 Mr Chairman, I move: 
In proposed section 76a, sub-section (2.) omit paragraph (h), insert the following paragraphs: "(h) names of all shareholders in the fund and the equity held by each in that fund and the names of all directors of that fund; 
details of how the reserve fund has been invested; 
details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held by directors of the fund in organizations in which the fund's reserves have been invested; and 
such other information as the Parliament requires to be included." 
The purpose of my amendment is similar to the purpose referred to by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in speaking to the last amendment. It relates to section 76a of the principal Act which provides that the Director-General will furnish the Minister with a report on the operations of registered organisations. It relates to the details that the organisations should disclose to the Minister. The last paragraph in my amendment is (k), which reads: such other information as the Parliament requires to be included. 
In other words, I have changed the wording from 'Minister' to 'Parliament' so that members of Parliament who are representing the people can have access to information about the way these funds operate and to the annual financial statements of these voluntary health insurance funds. 
The purpose of my amendment relates to experiences I have had in my own State of South Australia which are similar to those mentioned by the honourable member for Prospect. I was concerned about the middle of last year at the way some of the funds were operating, because as honourable members know there was a great deal of publicity about the excessive administration costs of these voluntary health funds and also the excessive amount of reserves that they were accumulating. So I set out to find out from one fund, the fund to which I contribute in Adelaide. I can say the name of it. It is the Mutual Hospital Association Ltd. I would like to make it quite clear that I am not alleging any malpractice or any misappropriation of funds on the part of this particular organisation in South Australia. However, the circumstances are that because of the way in which this Act operates in such a secret manner the opportunity would be there for unscrupulous operators to use funds without any public supervision. So I inquired of the fund whether I would be able to get hold of its annual financial statement and I was rushed in to the secretary who told me no, the financial statement was not available to contributors of the fund. I said: 'Is it made available to anybody?' I was informed: Yes, it is made available to shareholders.' 
Not being a shareholder I was not able to get a copy of the statement. So I inquired whether I would be able to buy one or two shares in the fund. I was told this was not possible either, because the shares were not tradeable. I was not able to find out the market value of the shares. I was not allowed to find out who the directors of the fund were. All I know is that the directors are elected by the shareholders and not by the contributors. I was informed that in 1937 before the implementation of the Basle Page scheme for health insurance 300 prominent families in Adelaide set this fund up. 
I was told that 300 families in South Australia had set the fund up and they became the shareholders and acquired some sort of equity in the fund. This ownership and managerial control of this Association has operated in South Australia since 1937. 
I do not know whether the Minister's family is one of the 300 prominent families in South Australia. However, it is a pretty notorious fact that the 300 prominent families in South Australia have a fair bit of hegemony over the affairs of that State. The point that I make is the secrecy surrounding the fund. For all we know each family may have one 20c share in the Association which enables it not just to control the share capital in the Association but also to control the whole of the contributors' funds. This means that they can control what happens to the reserves of each individual organisation. As we know the reserve funds of these voluntary health insurance funds were excessive. I was quite unable to find out who the shareholders were and what their equity was in each fund. I think it is something that we ought to know. 
That Association ran a particularly vitriolitic campaign against the Australian Labor  Party at the last federal election. It would not reveal the funds to me, but every now and then it leaked to the Press a one line item out of its financial statement. I do not know very much about accountancy but I do know that if you release a smail enough amount of information you can make black appear to be white. This ought to be done in a much more open fashion. I do not suggest, as I said, that the directors of this organisation are making a profit out of it. I realise that it is a non-profit organisation. However, the directors of it have access to the reserves. They can decide where the reserve funds of each health insurance fund can be directed. For instance, supposing I happened to be a director of this Association and I also happened to be a director of some bank or some hire purchase company. I could say: We have a few reserves to spare. My own finance company is not going too well. We will invest some of the reserves of this health insurance fund in my finance company'. I repeat that I am not alleging that this has occurred but we must have public oversight to see that such a thing does not occur. This is a very important reason why we must know what is being done with the public's money. 
It is an extraordinary situation that the public is virtually being compelled to belong to these insurance funds, as the honourmember for Prospect pointed out. The Government maintains that this is not compulsory insurance, but if we do not subscribe to these insurance funds we do not get the Commonwealth benefit for which we subscribe taxes. I cannot see any reason why the Government should not accept this amendment. All we ask is that the funds make available the names of the shareholders of each fund; the directors; the equity they hold; where the reserves of each fund are to be invested: and if companies in which reserves are invested have common interlocking directorships with health insurance funds, this should be stated in the annual report which should be given to the Parliament. I cannot see why this Government should not accept this amendment. It does not involve an appropriation of money. It does not involve complicated administration. There is no extra expenditure. It does not involve any tribunals and there would be practically no filling in of forms. I strongly hope that the Government will accept this amendment. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Hulme)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
We are debating today a matter of very great importance in Australia and that is the grave and deteriorating state of the nursing profession. It might be better described as the crisis in nursing throughout Australia. We are discussing this question in the context of the confrontation that is taking place throughout the length and breadth of Australia in all the hospitals and particularly in the public hospitals. The parties in this confrontation - or should I. say, the opponents - are, ranged on one side, the nurses who are in favour of reforms, who want to do something about the state of the nursing profession and who want therefore to do something about patient care in the hospitals throughout Australa and. on the other side, the forces of reaction, those who are opposed to having anything done; these are the members of the hospital departments, the hospital administrations and the entrenched establishment within the nursing profession. I submit that what any responsible government should do - this is what a Federal Labor Government or any Labor government in any State would do - is support the side which would do most to further the interests of patient care. That is the side that is presently being espoused by the nurses. We believe that we should intervene - that the government should intervene - on behalf of the nurses. This is not so much intervening in an industrial dispute but doing what happens to coincide with patient care. No government anywhere in Australia can afford to jeopardise patient care or take risks with people's lives. 
Let us have a look at what the governments throughout Australia are doing at present. I point out that all of these governments are of the same political complexion as the present Federal Government. This is the attitude of the Liberal Government in South Australia where a deputation from the Royal Australian Nursing Federation was recently received by the Minister for Health in that State. It put a number of forthright propositions before the Minister but the Minister would not concede there was any great problem. In fact, before he would even discuss anything with this deputation he insisted that the industrial officer of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation make an apology for a public statement that he had made that the Minister was not really concerned with the nursing crisis, in fact, the Minister in South Australia was more concerned with his own personal feelings. He had to have his own honour satisfied before anything would be discussed about nursing. Evidently that was more important than- the care of the patients with whose responsibility he, as Minister for Health, is charged. 
We had the same attitude expressed recently by the Queensland Minister for Health on the 'Four Corners' television programme in which he virtually stated that the problem was being rather overstated by the nurses and that we really had to balance their claims up with the taxpayers' interests. This is right, but we must have a really complete new look at the status of the nurse in Australia. We have the same situation in Victoria. I have an extract from the 'Bendigo Advertiser' of an item which the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  was good enough to point out to me. This publication is dated 19th May 1970 and states: 
There were about 30 to 40 nurses present from the Bendigo Base Hospital-- 
This was at an election meeting at Bendigo -  wielding banners carrying such slogans as 'We are a profession, not cheap labour'. The Premier told the nurses that there was no problem that could not be solved with a few dollars to the people involved. 
So here he is just shrugging the whole thing off. He barely acknowledges that there is a problem at all. I do not think he really is aware of the situation as it really is. 
What has the Federal Government done? I point out that I had quite a bit to say, and my colleagues on this side had also quite a bit to say, during the second reading debate on the National Health Bill about the quality of medical care in Australian hospitals. But the Minister for Health passed it off as what he called a lot of soporific waffle. What was this which he described as soporific waffle? I quote from what I had to say on 6th May in my second reading speech. I said: 
There is a great crisis in staffing in public hospitals throughout Australia. The situation is extremely serious in South Australia where numerous hospital beds and even an entire wing of the Royal Adelaide Hospital are out of operation because there is 'not sufficient nursing stall to run them. 
Later I said: 
This is an extremely serious matter. I suggest it is something which the State governments cannot manage by themselves. The Commonwealth Government must take responsibility for this; it must take an initiative. 
This is what the Minister described as soporific waffle - the shortage of nurses throughout all public hospitals in Australia. I. wonder: Can the Minister really in conscience justify his attitude? The attitude of the Australian Labor Party is that it is quite hypocritical for the Commonwealth Government to take the attitude that it is just a matter of State government responsibility. In this day and age we just cannot let the State governments manage by themselves with their own limited commitments. There must be consultation between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. They have to get together. They have to say: 'What are the problems of nursing in Australia'. As the Commonwealth Government and the Stale governments are charged with the responsibility for patient care throughout hospitals in Australia they have to say: 'What are we going to do about it? Let its look at the problems and see what we can do in consultation; let us see what we can do about improving the standards of hospital care'. But at present the State governments are absolutely starved for funds. 
There is no constitutional limitation on the Commonwealth in certain fields. For example, the Commonwealth has seen fit to intervene in the field of tertiary education, in certain fields of university education and in respect of providing colleges of advanced education. Well, is nursing training not education? Is it not tertiary education? Surely the Commonwealth Government could take some initiative in this field. Now I want to say a few things about what we believe ought to be done. In the first place I believe that the central issue is pay, because there is an increasing drift from nursing into other occupations. 
We must do what we can to try to attract girls into this profession. In other words, we must provide sufficient pay, pay that will be comparable with that of the jobs which will be competing for these girls. So, in the first place, the salary level must be completely re-appraised. Secondly, we must do what we can to relieve the workload on nurses. This can be done by upgrading the work done by nursing aides in hospitals. Too much of the work at present undertaken by nurses could more properly be carried out by nursing aides. Obviously this means that more nursing aides are needed. The shortage of nurses could and should be partly relieved by nursing aides performing some of the tasks which have been traditionally regarded as the responsibility of nurses. This means, of course, that the pay, education and status of nursing aides must be upgraded. In this way the trainee nurse and the trained nurse can be freed to perform the more skilled and responsible duties proper to their profession. 
On the matter of education we of the Opposition support the principle espoused by the Truskett Committee in New South Wales, that nursing training should no longer be the responsibility of the hospitals but that a special college should be set up charged with the training of all nurses and that that college in each State should have the status of a college of advance education. There are many other matters that we need to give our attention to. Many of these are matters that 1 believe the nursing profession itself should be looking at. J believe that there are nurses in the precincts of the House today. I would suggest that all the nursing bodies throughout Australia look at certain matters themselves. They should be seeking participation in the formation of policies within public hospitals by actually having nursing representatives on the boards of hospitals. 
I want to conclude by saying that the nursing crisis in our hospitals will not be solved until our attitudes to all aspects of nursing are revised. It is not just a question of salaries, although that is important, but also of working conditions, education and professional status. We have to decide whether we want to continue to regard the nurse as a person who is regimented, working in an outdated, hierarchical system, overworked, underpaid and performing repetitive, uninteresting duties more properly those of the domestic staff, or whether we should regard her as a skilled, responsible professional, a trained specialist in supportive patient care. If we persist in the former attitude we cannot hope to attract anybody into the nursing profession. 1 cannot understand the attitude of the Commonwealth Government. As far as I can see it has completely failed in its responsi bility for qualitative patient care. I do not know why the Minister for Health even wants to be the Minister? I do not know why he has joined the Federal Ministry. He just does not seem to be interested in prosecuting a decent policy of health. I would have thought he would be absolutely bursting to make all the reforms that need to be made in hospitals throughout Australia - about medical manpower, about staffing hospitals, about qualitative nursing care. But all he seems to be interested in is preserving the status quo. I just cannot understand it. The Minister has absolutely failed and he ought to resign. 
It is a little saddening and rather pathetic to hear honourable members of the Australian Country Party, like the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who has just resumed his seat, support everything that the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  says. This is a Socialist measure. I wonder if their hearts are in it when they support this Bill as my heart is certainly in it. It is extraordinary that they are always rather blindly supporting the Leader of the Country Party. 1 sometimes wonder whether some of the economic policies of the Country Party are really in the best interests of the people whom the Party claims to represent. But that is a matter for their consciences and is not my concern. It is the intention of the Opposition to support this Bill. In doing so I would like to ask a few questions, some of them of a rather fundamental nature. We are discussing the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I think the first thing we should ask is: Are we in favour of industrial development? This is probably a silly question to a lot of people but I think it is fundamental. I think, having answered that, that we should ask ourselves if it is a desirable thing that we have industrial development in Australia; is it necessary to import foreign capital in order to do so; and if it is necessary to import foreign capital does this Bill meet the requirements? 
The first question is: ls industrial development a good thing? Of course, it is assumed by most politicians in Australia that industrial development is the be all and end all of our political life. State elections are fought, won and lost we think, on who can get the greatest industrial development for their State. All sides argue that the bigger our cities become, the more factories we can get, the more bridges built, the more the suburbs invade the countryside, the better it is for everybody. We get more goods produced, more goods consumed, and what could be better than that? The apostles of industrial development unlimited argue that industrial development accommodates a rising population, both migrant and Australian born. They say it brings economies of scale so that our industries can expand into the export market. They say it stimulates the building industry and supports service industries so that we get a rise in the gross national product and if we get a rise in the gross national product that is al) we need. I think that all these assertions are only partly true. It is necessary that we should also look at the other side of the ledger. 
I make no apologies for mentioning these matters in reference to a Bill dealing with industrial development. In the first place, a matter which has received a great deal of attention in recent times is the effect that industrial development is having on the environment. A tremendous amount of publicity and attention has been directed towards how industrial development causes pollution of air, water and soil. I hope in this case that Government opinion will not lag very far behind public opinion and that when matters of industrial development are considered concurrent attention will be given to the effects it will have on the environment. I believe a pressure group in the United States of America called Zero Economic Growth Incorporated has been formed and that this group does not want anything done to increase industrial development because it fears that the effects on the environment might completely outweigh any economic advantages that might accrue. I am not saying that we should go that far but I think we should take a balanced approach. I am in favour of economic growth, but let us keep our perspectives in this. 
Look at the bauxite development at Weipa in northern Queensland. I think that both the Queensland Government and the Australian Government would regard this as a great development in the field of extractive industries. However, I wonder whether the Aboriginals living at Weipa on Cape York Peninsula would agree with this. What has happened is that the Aboriginals had 91% of the land of their native reserve excised and handed over to the mining company. What was paid in return for this land was a lump sum of $300,000 plus a royalty of 5c per ton of bauxite. This is going not to the Aboriginals in the area but into Queensland's consolidated revenue. There are other adverse affects from industrial development. Not the least of these is the social effect. Many commentators have referred to what is going on nowadays as the second industrial revolution. Anyone wilh any knowledge of history will know about the horrors of the first industrial revolution and how human beings were depersonalised into what were called 'factors of production'. It was the degradation of humanity as a result of the first industrial revolution under early capitalism that gave rise to the flowering of Socialist thinking throughout Western Europe and caused the rise of the great Socialist movements in Western Europe in the 19th century. 
I think it is no accident that in this second industrial revolution there is an increasing advocacy of greater participation in management and control of industry by the workers and by the community. I believe this is no accident because this is really a second great step forward in industrialisation. In the 19th century it was mechanisation - machines took the place of men's hands. Now we are getting automation where machines are taking the place of men's minds. So let us have as much industrial development as we can, but let us qualify that by saying: Just have that amount of industrial development that is consonant with minimal over exploitation of the environment by man, exploitation of man by man or exploitation of man by machine. On this side of the House we believe that these aims of industrial development, hand in hand with desirable social changes and the preservation of the environment, can be achieved only by democratic socialism. 
The second question 1 would like to pose is whether it is necessary to have foreign capital imported into Australia for the industrial development that we will have. I believe it is necessary, to some extent, to have foreign capital. I believe that we have to have some sort of foreign capital, but we should try to keep it at a minimum, and we should keep it a minimum by mobilising the capital resources that we have in Australia as much as we can. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  made a reference to this in his second reading speech when he said: 
Inhere are many demands on our limited capital resources. Scarce Australian investment funds do not easily flow to new projects which may take many years to reach the earning stage. 
I agree with this reference to scarce resources, but let us try to mobilise that capital that we have. I think that at the moment there is far too much frittering away of public funds  on  so-called development works that are not really development works at all. They are just carried out for political purposes. Also, I think it is a bit hypocritical for the Government to say that there are scarce resources of capital on the one hand and on the other hand dole out public money to some wealthy private schools in the community. This seems to me to be somewhat of a two-faced approach to this matter. If we are to mobilise our resources of capital to the optimum we have to have a great degree of economic planning. We have to have a good look at our policies on such matters as land prices, because a lot of the money that is invested by lending institutions is going into housing but too much of that is being taken up by inflated prices of land. 
We have to have an overall look at the policy on tariffs. Too much of our tariff policy is made on an ad hoc basis at the moment. We should be looking towards investing as much as we can on education, because this is a very great way of increasing our national prosperity. Also, I believe we would have to consider, as referred to earlier by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  the proposition that we would have to look at some of our immigration quotas and decide what is the immigration target we need most of all in order to integrate migrant intake with the other aspects of our economic planning. 
It is rather ironic that it is the Minister for Trade and Industry who is saying that resources are scarce. In a lot of cases it is of his doing. It is because of his policies that Australia has been groping along from day to day making ad hoc decisions, lt is extraordinary that so many honourable members on the Government side of the chamber have chosen to do nothing about this. For some reason they all seem to have cowered before the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
There is an urgent need for us to plan the development of our resources so that we can achieve an optimum gain in our national prosperity. Earlier this year I put a question on notice to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in which I asked what was the rise in the gross national product, at constant prices, per head of population in Australia over the last 10 years and how it compared with the same parameter for Japan, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other countries in western Europe. The answer I received was rather surprising in view of the fact that the Government says that there has been a tremendous rise in prosperity in Australia. 
The rise in gross national product in Australia at constant prices and constant population during that 10-year period, was 2.8%. In Japan it was. 10.1%; in Italy it was 5.3%; and in West Germany it was 4.7%. In fact Australia was second last of the countries mentioned. This shows that we have a long way to go in the field of economic planning. 
 The figures covered the last 10 years up to 1968-69. It is necessary for us to mobilise our resources for 2 reasons: Firstly, so that we can achieve a maximum degree of Australian equity in our own industries and resources and, secondly, because it is necessary that we maximise our growth in national product so that we can catch up with the countries mentioned in the table to which I have referred. If we do not own our industries we lose all round. What often happens is that foreign companies operating in Australia sell their products, their ores or whatever it is, overseas at cost or a little above so that the taxable income in Australia is kept at a minimum. All we get are the royalties, and they are very low anyhow. 
The third question is whether this Corporation is what we want. Does this Bill fit Australia's requirements? The Bill is a desirable thing as it stands at the moment. To some extent it is necessary that we have some degree of foreign capital entering Australia. If it must come in then I think it is a good idea to have it come in as debenture issues rather than as equity. The Minister for Trade and Industry referred in his second reading speech to some of the disadvantages of having equity capital owned overseas. He said: 
There are export franchise limitations, arrangements that limit competition with a foreign parent, processing of raw materials here, and sale at cost, as inputs for industry overseas, and fabricating industries finding themselves at the mercy of foreign-owned firms who control the prices of their raw materials. These are some of the" consequences that can flow from excessive foreign ownership of industry and resources. 
It is extraordinary that the Minister for Trade and Industry seems just to have discovered these drawbacks of foreign control. The Australian Labor Party has been talking about them for years. 
Another advantage of this particular Corporation will be that it will enable economic planning to be implemented. I refer particularly .to the control of capital issues. By the time all the issued capital from the Government to this Corporation is fully paid up it will be $10Om. This will enable it to borrow up to S500m. If we add the extra capital of the Corporation arising from any profit that it may make after taxation, and also any profit that may be realised from the investment of the issued capital of SI 00m in the first place, as time goes on the amount of capital that the Corporation will be able to direct into desirable places will be pretty substantial. My principal objection to the Bill is that it does not go far enough. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Trade and Industry referred to the problem of the multi-national corporation. He said, 1 think, that the problems of the multi-national giant often are not the problems of Australia. The Australian Industry Development Corporation appears to be a corporation which will use funds in Australia for companies which lack the prestige or backing to raise capital overseas on their own initiative. In that respect the Bill appears to do nothing really to break the stranglehold that the multi-national corporations already have on the Australian economy. However, as far as the Bill goes it is a good thing. As I said, it is better to have industries sustained as far as possible by Australian capital. Where industries have to be sustained by foreign capital then it is better to achieve this by means of shares rather than debentures. However, we have to remember that debentures themselves are not wholly unmixed blessings, particularly at the moment when the Euro bond rate is so high. Also there are other disadvantages. We have to remember that one does not declare dividends on debentures but they still have to be serviced and sooner or later they have to be redeemed. 
I would like to deal now with some of the specific measures in the Bill and some of the objections of the apostles of laissez faire economics, of whom the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  seems to be the chief apostle at the moment. I do not know whether the honourable member for Lilley actually seeks the mantle of being the apologist for the big financiers in Australia. That certainly is not a mantle I would seek. Being a little chap myself, rather would I be seen to represent the interests of the little people. The honourable member for Lilley tried, rather dishonestly, I thought, to evoke reaction from the Australian Labor Party against this Corporation because it is to operate as a fringe banking organisation. He said that the Australian Industry Development Corporation would be a fringe banking organisation and that, as the Labor Party always has opposed hire purchase companies and the exorbitant interest they charge, we ought to oppose this measure. The implication was that we of the Labor Party had better look out because the Corporation would charge exorbitant interest rates. But when we look further at his speech we find that he is not talking about that at all. What, the honourable member for Lilley is worried about is that the Corporation will charge a low rate of interest and that this will be to the detriment not of the consumer but of the private financial interests in Australia. 
Another objection put forward to this Bill is that it is a Socialist measure because of the amount of government equity that will be acquired. I would rather that it be a more Socialist measure, and that its workings should conform more to the policies of a democratically elected government. I think the Corporation will be a little too independent of Parliament as the Bill stands. No doubt when the Labor Party comes to office in 1972, or perhaps sooner - since J prepared this speech it appears that this will happen sooner - one of the first things it will do will be to modify the provisions of this Bill so that the activities of the Corporation can be carried out in conformity with Socialist government policy. 
Another of the objections levelled against the Bill concerns clause 8(6.). Under this clause the Corporation is not obliged to divest itself of equity in any enterprise and it need not refrain from acquiring a majority shareholding in any industry. I cannot understand why some people object to this proposal. It seems to me to be superstitious for anybody to object to a public corporation - that is public in the sense that it is a government or semi-government undertaking - participating in industry in this day and age. Some people, such as the honourable member for Lilley and other representatives of financial interests, are worried that the Corporation is going to lend at low interest rates and make no profit and that therefore it will constitute unfair competition with private financial interests. This is a good thing. This is the basic and fundamental advantage of Socialist enterprise. With private enterprise one has to worry about some of the income going to the wage earning sector and some going to the profit earning sector. The advantage of a government enterprise is that one does not have to be concerned about how much goes to the profit earning sector. The benefit can be passed on to the consumer by means of low prices. In the case of this particular government enterprise the profits can be passed on by means of low interest rates. Alternatively, if it does choose to make some degree of profit, that profit is ploughed back into the Government so it can be used for proper purposes. 
I think it is extraordinary to see the people who are complaining about unfair competition from Socialist enterprise because these are the same people who usually say that Socialism is inefficient and never works. We seem to have 2 standards here. If Socialism really did not work properly, its opponents would not be worrying about competition from Socialist enterprise. So if Socialism is really inefficient, the profiteers in this country should not have anything to fear. If Socialism is efficient, as I believe it is, the beneficiaries are the people. So in my opinion clause 8 (6.) will enable the AIDC to operate as a public enterprise. This is a good thing. It would be quite disastrous if this sub-clause were not in the Act. What it would mean is that the members of the board would have to look at an enterprise and say. 'We are getting over 50% control of this' or 'We do not need to have equity in this corporation any more' and sell the equity. Therefore, what that really means is that they will have to sell for purely ideological reasons. What sort of sellers' market will it be then? What sort of price would the shares realise? I would like to know, if that happened, the identity of the people to whom it sold the shares and the market value of the shares when it sold them. 
I want to come to another matter that has received a lot of attention, and that is the claim that this Corporation will support so-called lame duck industries. The Minister for Trade and Industry said in his second reading speech that this Corporation will not be a supporter of lost or doubtful causes. This raises the very large and very important question of what is meant by lost or doubtful causes, because in the modern capitalist state there is such widespread propping up of private enterprise by Government intervention already that it is difficult to define what is a doubtful cause. It is a very interesting matter for the advocates of capitalism to ponder on how efficient private enterprise would be without Government support, and I am not in this case thinking only of selected primary industries. There is a plethora of examples in manufacturing industry and other secondary industries. 
For instance, let us look at the venture in Whyalla in South Australia where the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd wants to ship its steel across Australia from Whyalla to the eastern seaboard. 1 wonder whether that would be a lost or doubtful cause. I wonder how profitable that would be if the Government were not to build the railway for BHP - and I emphasise that the Government is building it for BHP. When I was a general practitioner in Whyalla in 1963 the then Minister for Shipping and Transport hinted at building a railway from Whyalla to Port Augusta for the convenience of people commuting to Adelaide, but that idea was quickly passed over. However, as soon as BHP wanted to ship its steel by rail, that project assumed top priority over night. I hope I will have a chance to mention that when speaking to the Bill that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  has introduced. 
I am talking about shipment by rail. 
We will get on to that later when we are dealing with the Bill introduced by the Minister. What about the ports and bridges that are built for various mining companies by the Government? What about the tariff protection that is given to selected secondary industries? What about the trifling royalties that the mining companies pay for extracting ores from Australian soil? I believe that the dangers of political patronage are inherent in this Australian Industry Development Corporation. But let us face it: This is an inherent danger in any phase of the activity of a government of any complexion. Any government can prop up private interests as the present Government props up the interests of those who are contributors to McEwen House. The answer does not lie in rejecting legislation of this sort but rather it lies in an open examination of the national economic policy objective based on an open, rational public debate. It lies in lifting the veil of secrecy surrounding the workings of government, and it lies in community participation in decision making - what we call participatory democracy. 
Some opponents of this Bill, decrying it as Socialism, imply that Socialism is merely nationalising a few key industries. Socialism is much more than that. It involves full participation by the people in making decisions which affect their lives. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who I see is in the chamber, the other night stated his view that under a Labor government this Corporation would be under Government control, under what he likes to call the dead hand of a Socialist empire. Socialism does not mean dictation by a faceless government; it means control by the people. 
I think I have time to refer to one other matter mentioned by the honourable member for Lilley. He questioned whether the Australian Industry Development Corporation had a place in view of the existence of the Austraiian Resources Development Bank, and he pointed to something that was referred to earlier this year by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The Prime Minister evidently implied that the ARDB was not doing its job because it was borrowing locally and we needed a new body that would borrow overseas. I think that the honourable member for Lilley made a very good point. The Australian Resources Development Bank did right in borrowing locally when it could, firstly, because it is as well to keep borrowing in Australia and, secondly, it is even more important to do so when there is such an enormous disparity between interest rates in Australia and those overseas. I hope that when this Corporation is brought into existence it will not be hampered by anybody's interpretation of the second reading speech or the Act, but it will maximise the amount of borrowing it does in Australia. I cannot see any reason why it should not. It will be subject to the economic guidelines laid down last year. There should not be any strictures on the AIDC borrowing funds in Australia and I hope it will do that as much as possible. 
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the AIDC does not solve all the problems. lt does not really get anywhere near solving all the problems the multi-national corporation brings to Australia; but it is a good start for a future democratic Socialist government. I wish the venture well. I hope that it will not become a source of political patronage for selected interests, and I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 

 Mr TURNER (Bradfield) "5.22J- The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  of course, is a good Socialist. I believe that he is entirely sincere. Indeed, ideologies have caused great suffering to mankind through the ages. So be it. 1 propose to deal with this Bill entirely as a practical matter. 1 hope that we will not hear much more of the rhetoric that suggests that all who are good Australians must support this Bill in all its details or in its main principles. I think it was  Dr Johnson  who remarked that the appeal to patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel. I hope there are not too many scoundrels here. 
The differences that exist in this chamber today are not differences which are related to the arrangement of the chamber. Normally those on this side of the gangway stand for certain things and those on the other side of the gangway stand for other things and opposite things. But this is not the division in the House on this quiet Wednesday when we are not on the air. It is rather between some Liberals on the one hand and the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Country Party and a number of apathetic Liberals on the other hand. This is the real division in the chamber today, not that which divides the seats between left and right of the Speaker's chair. We are concerned with differences' in regard to means perhaps rather than ends. 
I imagine that most of us - probably all of us - agree that if we have more Australian capital in enterprises in this country the better it will be for all of us. We may well agree about this, but whether the Corporation is the best means of achieving that objective may well be the matter in dispute. This is the nub of the matter, I think. We need more investment by Australians in enterprises exploiting the resources of this country. It is sometimes said that that was not so in the United States of America when it first developed, that capital was obtained from Europe and subsequently that capital was repatriated, that the Americans paid back their borrowings to Europe and so became free and the owners of their own capital resources. This is not entirely true. The United States succeeded in ridding itself of this load of debt largely through 2 world wars, not entirely by paying back under ordinary peaceable conditions. When one bears this in mind one may be the more concerned that we do not involve ourselves too deeply in debt overseas. 
We need capital inflow if this country is to be developed and we need it on the best terms that we can get. If we can borrow fixed capital at fixed interest rates for fixed terms and pay it back, these are the best terms on which we can get it. We may not be able to get all that we need by this means and we may have to accept, however unwillingly, capital inflow of the kind that we have seen in recent years. But we must have it on the best terms that we can get it. There is no great disagreement about these things. Some of my colleagues like the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  have pointed out that the way proposed in the Bill is not the best way to achieve the objective that we all have. I associate myself with the arguments that they have advanced. The honourable member for Lilley is much better qualified as an economist, as a man who has studied finance profoundly, to express opinions on the matters that he has put forward. I adopt his arguments. I believe that he is right. 
I want to make a few remarks about the matter of the presentation of this legislation. There was no reference to it in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Therefore, theoretically at least, honourable members on this side of the House are not bound by it. We never went out on the platform and promised that this would be done. I would not say that everything that is lumped into a policy speech therefore has to be adopted by free members of a parliament. Maybe bond members or slave members have to, but not free members. Nevertheless it is persuasive that if a thing is not embodied in a policy speech one is not bound by it. How has it emerged? By casual references, rumours, newspaper reports, or a speech that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  made some years ago somewhere to somebody, whoever it may have been? The attitude as far as I and my colleagues are concerned has been this: Yours is not to reason why'. 
There has been the usual secretiveness that characterises the conduct of public affairs in our hick republic. There has been the usual inarticulateness on the part of Ministers who seem usually to be tongue tied and incapable of expressing what their policies are or the reasons for them when going out seeking to convince people that they are right. The attitude has been: 'Take it. That is it. Rubber stamp it in the Parliament. It is law.' That is not necessarily accepted, and that is why governments go out of office. This is all in the best traditions of our colonial past, our rather simple form of government. It is the sort of government that goes with people concerned with roads and bridges but who have only in recent times had to face some large issues. It is parochial, it is slipshod. This is the way we conduct our public business. I do not agree with it. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has come forward with the support of friends. First of all he comes up with the support of the Australian Industries Development Association. He has been very busy getting around seeking the support of these people, not explaining what he proposes in small print or any print or in detail to members on this side of the House. But he has been very busy with AIDA and the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia and so forth. Let us look at the support he has.  Dr Barraclough,  the spokesman for AIDA, said: 
The claim that an IDC would compete with existing financial institutions would not hold if it be a firm condition that the IDC be a lender of last resort. 
There is no such provision in the Bill. Maybe the draftsmen could not cope with it. But they managed to cope with it in regard to the legislation relating to the Australian Resources Development Bank. However, that was not incorporated in this Bill. Provided it be a lender of last resort its charter should preclude it from looking for business in any way whatever. Therefore under this Bill1 it is not to look for business. It is to wait until business comes to it. That is a nice distinction. Sometimes it has been suggested to me that if I made some application or other it might be looked upon favourably. I was not approached, of course.  Dr Barraclough  continued: 
On the contrary it should be prepared to act only when approached and then only if it could be shown that other avenues have been exhausted. 
That applies if this institution is to be a lender of last resort. It is nowhere expressed in the Bill. He continued: 
Furthermore, an IDC's loan raising should be exclusively in external markets, bringing additional capital into Australian hands. 
This surely is what we all want. But does the Bill say so? No. It uses the word principally'. It says that it shall borrow principally abroad. What does 'principally' mean? It is nowhere defined. I suggest that it means very little indeed. The AIDA spokesman went on: 
It should be a requirement of acceptability also that an IDC be subject to taxation no less and no more than other commercial institutions. 
It is not required to make any profit. If you do not make a profit you do not have to pay taxes. There is nothing about profit and so there is nothing about its being subject to taxation like other institutions. This is what the great friend of the Leader of the Country Party said. 
Let us look at the support that he has from ACMA. 1 have the official handout from  Mr R.  W. C. Anderson whom we all know. He said: 
It was not possible to give any final views on the IDC proposals until legislation was introduced and details became clear. 
They had not even seen the legislation. They knew nothing about it except what the Leader of the Country Party had told them. That was probably as much as he told back benchers on this side of the Mouse.  Mr Anderson  said: 
But it had been possible, from statements and comments ... to piece together a picture of what appeared to be the Government's intentions. 
I mentioned the phrase 'hick republic1. This is how we do business. We piece together a picture from statements and comments. He went on: 
At a recent conference of Presidents of National Manufacturers' Associations ... the IDC proposals were considered in some detail- 
On statements that had been pieced together. 1 da not know how these gentlemen conduct business if they come to an opinion on the basis of statements and things pieced together.  Mr Anderson  said: 
On the basis of the information available on IOC the meeting passed a unanimous recommendation . . . that ACMA should welcome and support the establishment of the Industry Development Corporation. 
Well, they are very easily pleased. 
Finally, the most damning support that the right honourable gentleman has had came from the Australian Farmers Federation, ft joins the IDC supporters. 1 will quote only one little bit from the spokesman's statement: 

 Mr Forrester referred to companies concerned with food processing which, it was understood, bad become overseas owned in recent years. 
He went on to say: 
Australian rural industries consider it mast undesirable that the local management teams forming price policies and establishing commercial practices should be responsible to overseas controllers who are not subject to the influence of local public opinion, our own national loyalties, nor necessarily sensitive nor accessible to consultation by other sectors of Australian industry nor dependent upon them. 
That is what  Mr Forrester  said. In other words, we must have companies that are amenable to Government influence - and to Country Party influence and to rural influences if they are processing food - so that rural industries may force them into better bargains for the producers - and to hell with the consumers. So, those are the great supporters of this legislation. 
Now, 1 wish to say a -word about the timetable of this Bill. I come back to the way in which we conduct our great affairs in this hick republic. Notice was given of a meeting of the relevant Government committee on this side of the House to take place on 4th May. I received that notice on 30th April. Now, 4lh May was a nonsitting day when members would not normally have been here. On the following day, Tuesday, 5th May, the Australian Industry Corporation Bill was introduced into the Party room. Because there was a fog it was not introduced until 12.25 p.m. and the debate went on- 
I should like to make a couple of brief remarks in support of what was said by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  What seems to have been overlooked by previous speakers is one word in the first amendment to clause 8 proposed by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I refer to the word 'appropriate*. The amendment reads:   . . that the company has made every reasonable attempt to secure assistance at appropriate rates from banking or financial institutions 
What exactly is meant by 'appropriate' rates of interest? I suppose that the first thing one does when trying to borrow money is to negotiate the loan at the lowest possible rate of interest. Therefore an interpretation of this expression could be that one would try to obtain assistance at the lowest possible rate of interest. If the honourable member means the lowest rate of interest, why does he not say so? These words would suggest that what is actually meant is that if a company wants to borrow it goes first to a private institution where it might have to pay 10%, but then finds that it can get the money at 8% from the Corporation. To suit the particularly perverse ideology of the honourable member  for  Lilley the company would have to borrow at the higher rate of interest from the private lending institution. It does not seem to be to be particularly beneficial for Australia that an amendment of that sort should be carried. I think the honourable member for Lilley has done himself credit in moving this amendment. 
The honourable member suggested as an alternative that the Corporation should declare a dividend, or something like that. This would mean that the Corporation would be required to tie one hand behind its back when competing with private financing institutions. It seems to me that if we are going to put this handicap on the Corporation we achieve a direct contradiction of the first part of the Clause which says that the Corporation shall act in accordance with sound business principles. If one is going to fight one does not tie one hand behind one's back. 1 am very surprised,  Mr Chairman,  that you did not rule the honourable member's amendment out of order because it is a complete negation of the original motton. As J said this afternoon, it is a funny thing that the same people who say that Socialist enterprises never work are the ones who are squealing about suffering unfair competition from a Socialist enterprise. If Socialist enterprise is really inefficient they should not have anything to fear. If it is efficient the people of Australia will benefit by it. 
I will not be very Long in my remarks on this Bill but I do want to refer to a point which 1 undertook to raise when 1 replied to an interjection by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  during the debate held earlier this week on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. The point concerns the priorities which the Commonwealth Government gives to a few selected enterprises within Australia. The Minister may recall that I mentioned the other night that some time in 1963 a by-election was held for the Federal electorate of Grey consequent upon the death of  Mr Russell  and at that time the then Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Opperman,  expressed some sympathy for the project of constructing a railway link between Port Augusta and Whyalla. This is a fairly important matter to the people of Whyalla just for their own convenience. If they want to go from Whyalla to Adelaide by public transport they have to travel by an Ansett bus from Whyalla to Port Augusta, use a standard gauge railway line from Port August to Port Pirie, and then travel on a broad gauge rail to Adelaide. That was the position and 1 think it is still the same. 
 There was a pretty good case for constructing this line from Port Augusta to Whyalla if only to meet the convenience of the people who wanted to travel by public transport from Whyalla to Adelaide. However, after the Grey by-election was held in 1963 this matter was pretty rapidly forgotten. It is of interest to note that from 1949 a success on of South Australian governments has been trying to get the line standardised from Adelaide to Port Pirie. The various governments rightly pointed out that the other mainland capital cities in Australia were being connected by the standard gauge network. Adelaide has been the only C tv excluded. In fact up until the introduction of this Bill there had been no real undertaking that such a project would be carried out at any time. Then a major change occurred. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd decided that it would send its steel from Whyalla to the eastern seaboard of Australia by rail rather than by sea. Overnight this matter became top priority with the 
Commonwealth Government. What are the implications of this? The Commonwealth Government is prepared to build a rail head from Whyalla to Port Augusta for the convenience of the BHP company but it is not prepared to do anything for the ordinary people of Whyalla. 
Furthermore, the construction of a line from Whyalla to Port Augusta has assumed greater priority than has the line from Adelaide to Port Pirie. I appreciate that there are certain technical difficulties associated with the construction of the standard gauge line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook but nevertheless I think this reveals an extraordinary set of priorities. Immediately BHP expressed an interest in shipping its products to the eastern seaboard by rail, this matter received top priority with the Commonwealth Government. This is just another example of how large monopolistic interests - and this is a genuine monopolistic interest in Australia - are given precedence over the interests of the ordinary people of Australia. This is only one example of the public patronage that is being given to this large company. I think that anybody in Austral/a who has taken a passing interest in the oil pricing policies of this Government is aware that the oil pricing scheme which the Commonwealth Government has negotiated negotiated with Esso-BHP is the economic scandal of the 20th century. 
I am not opposing this bill but 1 do think it is a rather sad commentary on the attitude of the present Commonwealth Government that patronage to selected large private enterprises is given preference over the interests of the ordinary people of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs and concerns developments in Czechoslovakia. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the more recent examples of government interference in and dictation to the Press, radio and television by the Government of Czechoslovakia, such as the abolition of discussion and interview programmes on Czechoslovak television? Will the Minister convey, through appropriate diplomatic channels, that the Australian people deplore any government interference with the freedom of the Press, radio or television? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many items are there in the Australian Tariff. 
How many items on the Australian Tariff have not been reviewed for a period of 10 years or longer. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many items has he referred to the Tariff Board in the last 10 years under Section 15 (l)(d) of the Tariff Board Act. 
When did he last refer to the Tariff Board the matter of the general effect of the tariff on primary and secondary industry under section 15 (2) of the Tariff Board Act. 
I have heard of a particular fund in Adelaide where a director may hold even less than that but I shall not go into that because I do not have accurate documentation of that; I was unable to obtain it. I cannot see why people should be compelled to contribute to such a scheme without having any right of control over their own money. I cannot see why they should be blackmailed, which I think is the appropriate word, into joining such a fund under a threat of having Commonwealth funds withheld from them. I find the explanation given by the Minister unsatisfactory. I will not go over the reasons again, but if the Committee votes against the amendment of the Minister I shall move accordingly that the amendment be accepted by the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Was the Government's proposal to give dental therapists in the Australian Capital Territory total patient responsibility originally based on a recommendation to the National Health and Medical Research Council by the Dental Health Advisory Committee. 
Has he referred the matter back to the National Health and Medical Research Council because of a dispute over the interpretation of that recommendation. 
Has the National Health and Medical Research Council referred the matter to the Public Health Advisory Committee on which no dentist is a member 
Is it a fact that the National Health and Medical Research Council has not referred the matter back to the Dental Health Advisory Committee which made the original recommendation; if not, why not. 
 I just w.mt to raise a couple of points. We are not discussing the total number of hours that are to be sat in any particular year. The number of hours that are to be sat in any year has nothing to do with the passing or opposing of this resolution. This is in reply to points raised by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who said that if we pass this resolution we will spend less time in Canberra. The parliamentary sitting time is quite irrelevant to that. The amount of time we spend sitting in Parliament is surely solely related to the amount of business that the Government has before us. We are not discussing the total amount of parliamentary sitting time. We are discussing how we will best use our day. We have hud a number of reasons put up by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Oxley. I do not think they are relevant. The honourable member for Oxley said that if we passed this resolution we would not spend enough time in Canberra. The honourable member for Cunningham said that if we passed it we would not spend enough time in our electorates. I think they have both missed the point. It is dependent on the amount of business the Government has before us. There is no relationship between the amount of sitting time and this motion. They have nothing to do with each other at all. 
I wish to raise a couple of other points. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  expressed concern about the sittings of committees. 1 think it is something that can be dealt with when we consider the times of sitting as a separate matter. Even apart from that, is this not one of the points of being here over the weekend? I hope that we are going eventually lo make the committee system more meaningful and that some of the time we spend in Canberra over the weekend, at least on Saturdays, will be devoted to committee work. Otherwise there might not be any point in being here. Surely that is one of the most important matters. Another point has not been mentioned by any honourable member. I hope that consideration will be given by the Library Committee and the Joint House Committee as to what facilities will be available to honourable members when they stay over the weekend. There are a lot of things we can do apart from normal parliamentary duties and committee work. I would appreciate the opportunity to be in Canberra a bit more. Sometimes 1 think it might be better if honourable members lived in Canberra. We would at least have a better idea of what is going on. Usually when I get here as an itinerant I have to ask one of the Press gallery what is going on in the corridors of power. When we are here a bit longer we might be able to find out for ourselves. Apart from that, I hope we can spend some time on research, committee work or library work and that the Library Committee and Joint House Committee will see to it that if we pass this resolution we will be able to spend time over the weekend in the library and making use of the facilities in the House. 
Like the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  I am a little apprehensive about whether there has really been a great victory for the ordinary members of the Parliament. It seems to me that this might be a victory for the Executive. There appears to be a distinct discrimination here between whether it is Government business taking place at midnight or whether it is business that members wish to raise on the adjournment debate. I suppose that if honourable members want to get away at midnight we should consider some of the senior citizens of the Parliament, although personally I do not mind to what time we continue sitting. 
That may be so. I am concerned that if we continue until midnight and we are dealing with Government business then we will be in the position where the Government can continue the sittings if it so desires. However, if we are discussing anything on the adjournment debate - something that might not be very important in the eyes of the Executive but which might loom large in the eyes of an individual member - the way this motion is worded suggests that the speech of a private backbencher will bc concluded automatically at midnight. I should like the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  to explain why his amendment is worded in such a curious fashion.It says thatthe  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting'. Does this mean that the motion to adjourn the House will not be put? Does this mean that we are automatically bound to support the motion for the adjournment of the House at midnight? Does this mean that we all have to accept the adjournment and go home without a motion being put? I should like the Leader of the House to explain why the motion says that the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House. 
Will we be departing from the standard practice under which the  Speaker  puts the question? 
I want to raise a matter within the province of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  The Attorney-General is quick to tell us of his concern for law and order. I hope he is also concerned for justice. The matter I wish to raise concerns 6 men who are at present in Long Bay Gaol following a conviction for contempt of court. The sentence of 14 days' imprisonment with hard labour was passed on 17th August in the Magistrate's Court in Sydney in which the 6 men were appearing on a charge of trespassing on private property, that being the private property of the Attorney-General. 
It is not my intention to discuss the charge of trespassing on the Attorney- 
General's property. 1 think it is important that the trespassing charge and the contempt of court charge be separated entirely. 1 ask the Attorney-General to try to do this in spite of his personal involvement in this case. I wish to direct my remarks only to the matter of the contempt of court charge and the events following. These events have been quite extraordinary. During the sitting of the Magistrate's Court the defendants each raised one arm with a closed fist - nothing more, nothing less. Thereupon the Magistrate asked the defendants to show cause why they should not be dealt with for contempt. The Magistrate then proceeded to sentence the men to 14 days' imprisonment with hard labour. It should be noted that the magistrate failed to extend to the men an adequate opportunity to obtain legal advice and that the men were not remanded on the charge. 
On Thursday, 20th August, a request was made to  Mr Justice  Taylor that the case be heard by the Court of Appeal of New South Wales on the grounds that the men had been denied natural justice and that their actions did not constitute in law contempt of court. The counsel for the defence pointed out that they had been denied legal representation and that the charge had not been remanded. They further pointed out that their conduct did not in any manner threaten the peace of the court and that it did not in any way prevent the ordinary course of business of the court. Further, the belief was expressed that the conviction was founded upon considerations of motive based on social and political values which the presiding magistrate may have believed to underlie what was or would otherwise have been innocent conduct. 

 Mr Justice Taylor held that there could be an arguable complaint about a denial of natural justice and he was concerned whether their conduct constituted contempt of court. He granted an order to restrain the magistrate from proceeding with the sentence until the Court of Appeal heard the case. The appeal was heard by the Court of Appeal of New South Wales on Friday, 21st August. On Monday, 24th August, the court declined to order the release of the men. The same afternoon an affidavit was filed in the High Court of Australia seeking special leave to appeal to the High Court. Under the Judiciary Act only 2 judges are required to convene a 
Full Court, lt is a further fact that there are 6 High Court judges in Sydney this week and that only 2 of them are occupied. In spite of this the Chief Justice refused to assemble the Court this week. He did not even state that no judges were available; the message was merely received from the Registrar of the Court that the Court would not be assembled. 
I would like to know upon what basis the Court was not assembled this week. There has been a severe denial of justice to these men. I fail to see why the application for leave to appeal should not have been dealt with. The cases in which the 2 judges were involved, incidentally, both concerned taxation - Commonwealth matters, lt is quite obvious that the Court could have been convened. Even if the other 4 judges were unavailable, surely the 2 hearing the taxation matters could have heard the case. 1 point out to the House that in the United States and in the United Kingdom it is standard practice that matters involving property rights are put aside when the liberty of a subject is involved. Why could this not have been done here? It should not be forgotten that the Chief Justice had the same material before him as  Mr Justice  Taylor had last week and at that time I remind the House that  Mr Justice  Taylor stated that there was an arguable case, yet with the High Court the matter could not even be heard. Meanwhile, the men were and are still in Long Bay Gaol. 
I ask the Attorney-General to put aside his own emotional involvement in this case. Can he explain on what basis the Chief Justice exercises his discretion on whether or not a case will be heard? Does the Commonwealth Government regard matters of property and taxation as more important than the liberty of the individual? If this is the case, I believe this attitude will only bring the law into disrepute. The answer to such situations is not increasing repression, or what the Government likes to call 'law and order', but to give equal justice to all citizens. Six men have been imprisoned without remand and without representation on grounds which one judge has considered at least open to question yet their application for leave to appeal further has been denied. While 2 judges are hearing tax matters and 4 others are hearing nothing 6 men remain in gaol. 
This is outrageous.  Mr Speaker,  I ask the Attorney-General to tell us whether the rule of law is to apply equally, whether we are to grant justice to all citizens equally across the board, or whether it is only to be granted to those whose political standards are similar to those of the Government. We will hear a lot more about law and order 1 suppose. The Government has had all its mindless menials parroting about law and order because they are all frightened to debate the Budget and I suppose we will hear of nothing else but law and order until after the Senate election is over. Let us hear the Attorney-General tell us whether he is interested in justice as well. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the report of the Truskott Committee, tabled in the New South Wales Parliament, recommending the establishment of colleges of advanced education for the training of nurses? Has the Commonwealth received any approach to support the establishment of nursing-training institutions with the status of colleges of advanced education with the appropriate Government assistance? Does the Government have any plans in relation to the establishment of such colleges either in the Australian Capital Territory or in the States? If so, what are the plans and how firm are they? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and to express my opposition to the Budget. I would like to enlarge my criticism to oppose the whole of the Government's economic policy or, what might be called its non-policy. I say 'non-policy' because the Government lacks completely, as far as I can see, any overall economic strategy at all. Its economic performance in the last decade has been miserable. To counter inflation it can apparently think of nothing better to do than to oppose wage rises in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to minimise social service increases. There is no indication of any government policy at alt to divide equitably the national wealth between the wage earner, the profit earner and the person on a fixed income. To redistribute the tax burden it can do no better than replace progressive taxes with regressive indirect taxes and still leave the relative incidence of income tax almost unchanged. Finally, and most importantly, it gives no insight whatever as to how any gains in productivity - whatever gains are achieved - are to be translated into a better way of life for the citizens of this nation. 
It is easy to make constructive criticisms of this Budget and constructive criticisms of the Government's economic policy because the Government itself has done nothing constructive. There is simply nothing there to tear down before building starts. On the other hand, the Budget itself contains many destructive proposals and these deserve to be dealt with in like manner. 
Nothing is more destructive than the principle which the Government has established in its attack in this Budget on the pensioners. It is impossible to defend the Government's action. It is impossible to disagree with those spokesmen of the pensioners' associations who described the rise of 50c a week as an insult, representing, as it does, a 3.3 per cent rise for single pensioners compared with the 8.9 per cent rise in average weekly earnings over the last financial year. It is nothing less than a direct attack on the living standards of those who are dependent on the pension. I am sure that this Government still holds the opinion that a pension is granted as a kind of privilege when it is in a generous and indulgent frame of mind. It should, of course, be nothing of the sort. The pension is a right. It is the right of the person who has contributed, by work and by taxation, to the prosperity and development of this country to enjoy a reasonable living standard when he or she is no longer able to work. There is also a moral obligation on the Government to ensure that nobody in the community in this day and age should be living in a state of poverty or near poverty. Perhaps we would be better off if we ceased to use the word 'pension'. 1 have a further criticism of the tiny rise in the pension and it is a fundamental criticism. It is this: Pensioners have been singled out in order to protect everybody else from the effects of further inflation. Whether the situation is menacing, potentially menacing, or whatever it is, inflation is occuring. There can be no argument about that. The most helpless person in an inflationary situation is the person on a fixed income. He is the person worst affected. Surely it should be axiomatic that such people should be protected against inflation by automatically adjusting pensions according to fluctuations in average weekly earnings and then to take counter inflationary measures elsewhere. But this Government is giving pensioners double punishment. The pension is being kept down as a counter inflationary measure. The pensioners cop it both ways. Already they suffer more than any other group from the effects of inflation. Instead of compensating pensioners because of the effects of inflation and instead of taking deflationary measures in other sectors of the economy, the pensioners are being used to cushion the effects of inflation on everybody else. Therefore the 50c rise in the pension is more than a quantitative mistake; it betokens a fundamentally wrong economic approach and a total absence of a sense of social justice. 
While on the subject of people on fixed incomes I want to point out that the recipients of payments from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund have not received a rise since 1967, except for those superannuitants who were able to participate in the scheme of non-contributory units introduced last year. I hope that the Government, if it survives this Budget session, will spare a thought for this large group of people who are also in receipt of fixed incomes. I hope it will bear in mind their special problems in times of inflation. 
Sitting suspended from 12.44 to 2.15 p.m. 
Already Opposition speakers have opposed the introduction of regressive taxes and indirect taxes on consumer durables. They are an unfair imposition on the low income earner. In contrast the income tax relief of this Budget has been greatest not for those in the low income bracket but for those in the income range of $5,000 to $20,000 per year. Why should this be? The justification for this appears, as far as I can see, in the speech delivered by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  last night. It should be noted that he is also the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. Therefore I think we can say that his rationalisation for this measure would be the reason behind the Government's policy of giving the greatest income tax relief to those in the $5,000 to $20,000 income tax bracket. The Minister stated that the people in this income range are executives, managers and the professional people within the community. He said that these are the people we need to provide with incentive. Apparently the argument - this is a frequently canvassed argument - used by the Government runs something like this: We have to lower the incidence of income tax on these people so that they will have more incentive to work harder and to increase productivity; we will not provide any disincentive for them to earn more by making their income tax too high. So the argument is to lower taxation and thus give these people an incentive to work harder because the Government will not reef money off them by way of taxation. However, this argument is completely fallacious. 
This system does not work as a positive incentive at all. In fact, lowering income tax in this way can work as a disincentive because if you are an executive, a manager or a professional type you can just as easily say that because the Government has lowered income tax you are earning a greater net income and you do not have to work any harder. So, it can cut both ways There is some evidence, according to economists, that the lowering of income tax in this range acts not as an incentive for people to work harder but as a disincentive. In other words, people in this income tax bracket will be just as well off without working any harder. Therefore, 1 believe that the Government's justification for this measure is completely fallacious. This is not to say that a Labor government WO Ull not alter the incidence of taxation. However, as a party we believe in progressive taxation rather than regressive taxation. But that is not to say that a Labor government would not - in fact it probably would - redistribute the incidence of income taxation between the people in the various income ranges. 
I want to pay some attention to the especially adverse affects that indirect taxes will have on the economy of my home State of South Australia. There is no question that the increased sales tax on consumer durables and the imposition of a tax on wine threatens the South Australian economy. I believe that the Government must have had a false picture of the wine industry when it decided to impose a tax on wine. It is true that there is a boom in the wine industry at the moment, but this condition of the industry may well be a fragile one. I have a report on the wine industry made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics dated October 1969. This report shows there has been a relative fall in the price of wine. This is to say, the price has risen at a slower rate than the consumer price index. The survey further shows that the demand for wines is very much susceptible to changes in price. In other words, the current wine boom is largely due to the relative price drop. The converse is also true. In 1964 and 1965 there was in fact a surplus of grapes. In the light of this it is worth examining the likely impact of the wine tax on demand. The report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics notes that a rise in price will cause a more than proporionate drop in sales. Thus, the tax plus the retail margin, have added something like 45c to the price of a flagon and 13c for a bottle - rises of about 13 per cent and 15 per cent respectively. If the predictions of the Bureau are correct a drop in sales of the order of 40 per cent and 20 per cent respectively may be expected. I point out that there has been a great increase in vine plantings, lt would be a disaster if this industry joined the list of those with a surplus just because of a clumsy government measure. I cannot understand the attitude of the Government, which at the same time is paying out subsidies to less viable industries. 1 have in mind, of course, the dairying industry, whose future seems bleak indeed. This impost is being placed on a relatively healthy industry. We are taking from the efficient wine industry and giving to other industries. This is a classic case of misallocation of resources and it is nothing short of sheer economic lunacy. 
I would like to remind the Government of the critical importance also of the consumer durables industries to the South Australian economy. If there is any fall in the demand for these commodities the South Australian economy will suffer. In 1965-66 and 1967-68 drought conditions in the eastern States resulted in an economic downturn in South Australia. This year South Australia has already experienced difficulties in the vehicle building industry due to the Government's high interest rate policy. Only a couple of months ago there was a substantial number of sackings from the Chrysler plant at Tonsley Park. Now South Australian industry has to bear the additional burden of increased sales tax on goods produced in that State. The number of instances in the last few years where South Australia's interests have been disregarded is large indeed. There is a strong suspicion in South Australia that the motivation of the Commonwealth is political. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton')  was reported to have said at the last Premiers Conference in June that the special Commonwealth capital payment to South Australia would not be paid because South Australia had made its decision 2 weeks earlier. The decision he was referring to of course, was the decision of the South Australian people to elect a Labor Government. I cannot say whether this Press report is accurate. But this attitude would be consistent with the attitude the Commonwealth has developed towards South Australia in recent years. Whether it is based on party politics I do not know, but I do know that South Australian's are fed up with the short shrift they are receiving from this Government. 
I want to make a few remarks about the Government's economic policy in general. First of all I would like to say something about productivity because this is a word that has been mouthed a great deal recently by Ministers. I am not one of those who regards productivity or economic growth as the most important reason for our being on this earth. I do not say that the main thing we should get out of life is economic growth. However, we must acknowledge the fact that our living standards are to a large degree dependent on our economic growth. The performance of the Government can be seen from figures in a speech made by none other than the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden).  The parameter he used was the rise in gross national product at constant prices per head of population. This is probably the most useful yardstick for economic growth. Australia's performance over the last  10  or  15  years compared to that of the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and countries of western Europe has been very poor. We are almost second last in the race; the last place is filled by Great Britain. If we juxtapose this fact alongside something else that the Minister for Labour and National Service pointed out - that we have almost the highest rate of capital investment in the western world - we can see that the performance df this Government is pretty bad indeed. Tn spite of a high rate of capital formation our economic growth rate is about the poorest in the western world. What a woeful performance; what a pitiful performance. The reason for this state of affairs of course is misallocation of resources. If ministers are to talk about productivity they ought first of all put their own backyard m order. What we need is sensible planned growth of our economy. This does not, of course, mean complete rigid controls of everything in the economy. Socialism does not mean complete strictures on all the economic activities of the community. But it does mean that we should have some broad idea of which way our economy should be going. The Gov ernment does not seem, at this stage, to have any general or broad idea of which way we should go. It seems to have only one principle and that is that if investment has already been made in one sector of the economy then we must safeguard that investment, however efficient it is and no matter whether it is a good or bad use of resources. This applies in the case of both primary and secondary industries. It means that if someone has established an industry we have to underwrite it. We have to underwrite not only its continued existence but if that industry chooses to expand we have also to underwrite that as well, regardless of its efficiency. I cannot see how we will have a useful allocation of our resources and a maximising of our economic growth if we continue such an economic policy as this. Perhaps it might better be called a non-policy. 
Earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  indicated useful ways in which our economy could and should develop. He mentioned, particularly, upgrading the ores that are produced in Australia - That is, bauxite and iron ore - so that we could refine and smelt the products and make manufactured goods from them ourselves. Here, indeed, is a useful way in which we could bend our economy in a direction which would maximise our economic growth. But this is something on which we must make a positive decision. I hope, incidentally, that the Australian Industries Development Corporation will do something positive in this regard. Nothing is more fruitless or counter-productive than the endless handing out of subsidies. As far as I can see, subsidies might have one use and that is if we are trying to coax people into an industry. Suppose that we are trying to produce so much of a particular crop or we decide that we can sell so much of a particular cereal. If we need so many people in that industry to produce the quantity needed to maximise our export income and we lack that number of people in that primary industry I say that the rational thing to do would be to subsidise the industry to encourage people to enter it. But that is not the situation. At present we have too many people in primary industry. Therefore T cannot see anything more pointless than endless subsidies. Surely we could have some more positive approach to this than we have at present. 
I did not say that. I said that we should do something positive. One modest back bench member on the Government side - heaven alone knows who he is but we all have our suspicions - once said: 'Who has ever been subsidised into becoming efficient?' What we must ask about our products is: How much can we sell? How many people do we need to grow the amount of production that we can sell? How can we maximise the efficiency of the industry concerned? I hasten to add - especially as a speaker from the country is to follow me - that T am not saying we should empty the countryside and overcrowd the cities. This is something we must avoid at all costs and if I have time I will mention this later. But I do not think we can expect to get any long term gain from subsidies. I have in mind particularly the subsidy proposed in the Budget for the wool growers, because that subsidy to wool growers is nothing but a social service payment. It will not help the wool industry or do anything about wool prices, lt is nothing but a social service payment and as such must be compared with other social service payments. For that reason 1 must condemn what the Government has done. Pensioners will get a rise of 50c a week $26 a year; yet some wool growers will get $1,500 a year. Where is the economic sense in that? If it would help the wool industry it would be a different matter, but it will not. It is a sheer social service payment. 
Another aspect of productivity that we should be looking at. is our investment in education. I am not suggesting of course, that education should be looked at from the economic standpoint entirely. In fact, it is nol the most important reason for investing in education. However if we want to look at it in that way it is a highly productive economic measure and something that will show a positive return. What the Government should get into its mind is that money spent on education is not money down the drain. What about a sharing of the fruits of productivity? After deciding what is the size of the national cake, how are we to cut it up? The Minister for Labour and National Service and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  have called for restraint by the trade union movement. 
This is quite fatuous. In support of that comment I should like to refer to a Government document. I quote from the White Paper on 'The Australian Economy 1970' in which it is stated: 
What will be said here about the effect which rising wages have bad on prices in recent years is not at all intended to imply that they have been solely responsible for the price increases which have occurred. It is not so. A good many other factors have contributed, larger profit margins probably more than most. 
In other words, of the rising productivity in the Australian economy m the last few years a greater proportion of that increase has gone to the profit earning sectors of the economy than to the sector which takes wages and salaries. It is quite fatuous for members of the Government to call on the trade union movement for restraint. What we need is for the trade union movement to be guaranteed a reasonable and just proportion of any increase in productivity. No wonder that  Mr Hawke  and other leaders of the trade union movement have looked slightly askance at the Productivity Council and its deliberations last week. How can they do otherwise if they can sec that the lion's share of the wealth of the country is going to those who take the profits rather than to those who put in their own labour? This is something that must be rectified if the Government wants to get increased productivity. If it wants to interest the trade union movement in this, a very hard look must be had at the question of giving a just proportion of reward to those who supply industry with their labour. 
What has the Government done about inflation? Perhaps another question that might be asked is: Who are the principal victims of inflation? The principal victims, of course, are those on fixed incomes and the exporters. I have already mentioned what has happened to the people on fixed incomes, particularly pensioners who have received very miserable treatment indeed. Labor government, of course, will automatically tie incomes of pensioners to the average weekly earnings. As for the exporters, to some extent the disadvantages they may have suffered have been offset by inflation occurring in other countries. This has not been the same in the case of many of our primary industries, particularly those that are not party to international commodity arrangements. All that the 
Government has been able to do is to go to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and say: 'Do not put wages up'. The latest thing that the Government has done is to appear before the Arbitration Commission in the oil case and say: 'We do not think you should take the profitability of an individual company into account in making an award'. 
The Government has called on the trade unions to exercise restraint in wage claims, but we have not heard a word about restriction of prices or restriction of profits. What a one-sided view the Government has of this. The answer, of course, is that the Government must have a good look at the excessive profits that are being made by many of the large monopolies in this country. I have in mind particularly the agreement that was made behind closed doors between the Prime Minister and the Esso-BHP company in respect of off-shore oil in Bass Strait. This has been described by at least one economic writer as the economic scandal of the 1960s. I believe that the Government lost an opportunity in 1967 to do something about inflation at the time of the devaluation of sterling. I think perhaps at that time we could have done a lot worse than devalue with sterling and perhaps make some adjustment to the tariff policy. However, it is probably too late to do anything about that now. But I still believe that we can control inflation by proper integration of our policies' on tariffs, subsidies, immigration, investment, education and profit and price control. Evidently we will have to await a Labor government before we get this. 
Finally, I would like to say something about a matter raised in the Opposition amendment relating to a failing of the Commonwealth Government. The Opposition amendment mentions assistance to schools and hospital and urban authorities. I refer to the last one, that is urban authorities, in relation to whom the Commonwealth Government refuses to take any positive interest. The Commonwealth must play a very active role because it is the only government in Australia with the resources to  do  something about making Australian cities better places in which to live. This matter has been canvassed many times by the Leader of the Opposition. It is high time that the Government did something. 
I am not just talking about a question of aesthetics; I am not talking about some abstractions. We have seen a growth in recent years of a lot of human group behavioural disorders of crime, drug taking and drug trafficking and racism. I believe it is no accident that these problems have been worse in the larger cities of the world. I believe that if we want to avoid the disastrous experiences of overseas countries we must take a good hard look at our cities. How big can a city become before it is too big? How can we plan our cities so that their citizens have a feeling of belonging, so that they do not drop out, so that people will not want to fight each other? Let us do something positive about our planning for our cities. Let us do something about decentralisation, not just talk about it. Let us do something not just to appease certain pressure groups but to preserve the quality of life of all Australian citizens. I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the herbicides 245-T und 24-D be bought over the counter in nurseries and gardenshops throughout Australia. 
Is he able to state whether the sale of these substances has recently been banned in Canada and the United States. 
Has he investigated reports that these substances, which are used as defoliants in South Vietnam, have teratogenic effects. 
If so, what is the outcome of these investigations. 
1 also support the motion moved by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  Honourable members on this side of the House welcome the move by the Government to have a close, public analysis and scrutiny of the decisions and the matters that lead to changes in government policy or perhaps to the continuation of government policy. We feel that it is good that these decisions should be based not just on findings made in secret by members of the Public Service but that they should be made openly by members of the Parliament who are after all here to represent the people of Australia. I think it is a pity that this field will not be examined by a standing committee along the lines proposed originally by  Mr Speaker  in a document circulated to members of the House. I think it is a great pity that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has seen fit to suspend discussion of the subject of standing committees sine die. Therefore, I would say that the appointment of a select committee although it is welcome is only second best to having this matter examined by a standing committee. 
I refer now to the terms of reference of the proposed select committee. 1 wish to mention term of reference (1) (b) which is: all  factors  contributing  to  the cost of  the scheme.  As the Minister for Health has mentioned, the cost of the scheme concerns many people including those engaged in the pharmaceutical industry and the chemists themselves. But principally it concerns the individual patient who has a prescription to be dispensed, on some occasions, may obtain his medicines over the counter. Also, the cost of this scheme is of concern to taxpayers as a whole. No doubt exists, in my mind anyway, that the cost in each case is excessive. lt is true that, in respect of most of the drugs obtained on prescription, a patient has to pay 50c only. That may not sound a great deal bearing in mind the present value of the Australian dollar after 21 years of Liberal Party -Country Party rule. However, to refer to a fee of 50c for each prescription is to over simplify the matter, in many cases, multiple prescribing occurs. The Government's policy, following the direction of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, is against 'shot gun' therapy - prescribing preparations which contain a different number of active pharmacological agents. I think that this policy is correct. Tlhe Government's policy therefore is that different drugs should be prescribed separately. This means that, in these days of multiple prescribing, a patient is likely to leave his doctor's surgery after a visit with prescriptions for several different drugs, and this as the result of 1 consultation. 
Not only this, but a patient may need to obtain a repeat on a certain drug. Frequently a patient must do this. After  3  or 4 days on an antibiotic, a patient may need a prescription repeated and the patient must pay 50c each time a prescription is repeated. Some people must take drugs all their lives. This means a lifetime expense for them. T refer to such people as those who are subject to epilepsy and who must take anti-convulsant drugs throughout their lifetime. Some people must take digitalis preparations all their lives. Diabetics must take insulin all their lives. These people must pay a certain amount each time a prescription is presented. This means a lifetime of expense. I think that this is a subject at which the Committee will need to look. 
A number of drugs - some of them are very important drugs - are not obtainable under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. To obtain these drugs, a patient incurs very great expense. The fact that these drugs are unobtainable under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme can place a rather unfair burden on the person on a low. income or with a large family. The system as it operates at present imposes a. big penalty not only on the person who has a prescription filled but also imposes a large burden, on taxpayers as a whole because of the tremendously high cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
Whether a great deal of actual profiteering on the part of individual drug companies occurs is something I would not like to prejudge. This is a matter upon which the Committee will have to decide. However, there are some observations that I would like to make at this stage about the operation of drug companies within Australia. In the first place, it is true that quite a number of industries - rather small industries - are operating throughout Australia and are making their contribution to the economy. Of course, this is a good thing. But, in the case of a special industry like the pharmaceutical industry, we must balance this fact against a consideration of whether this is something more than just an industry. It is. It is, in a sense, a public utility. 
Apart from the question of profiteering, when we come to the argument that the pharmaceutical industry should be able to maintain a reasonable margin of profit, I think that we should remember some of the outgoings in which drug companies are involved. My colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  made reference to a quotation which mentioned the large amounts of money that drug companies spend on advertising. Every doctor knows of the paper war that is waged by drug companies. Enormous volumes of elaborate, very glossy literature, which must have been expensive to prepare, arrives at doctors' surgeries, day after day, week after week. I am sure that most of this large volume of literature must be consigned straight to the waste paper basket. This is a tremendously expensive practice which seems to me to be largely unnecessary because a medical practitioner, if he has a proper training in pharmaco logy, should not need to depend on the handouts of the drug companies in deciding what he is to prescribe. 
But the expenditure on advertising by individual drug companies is not the only matter to which the select committee willneed to direct attention. Another matter to be looked at is the expenditure which the drug companies maintain they incur on research. We are all in favour of research to try to find new developments and new drugs. But, unfortunately, the term 'research' is very often an euphemism when used by the drug companies. What they do under this heading consists first of taking an. existing drug in common use, making some alteration to the molecular structure of the drug so that its action is not altered but its structure is altered sufficiently so as to get around any patent rights that the existing preparation has, and then go ahead to compete with other drug manufacturers by way of a product which is almost identical to other preparations. This is another cost which is being incurred unnecessarily by the person who has to buy drugs and by the taxpayer. 
I turn now to the matter of overprescribing. I am afraid that some criticism must be levelled at the medical profession itself on the question of overprescribing. All too frequently neither doctor nar patient, probably not having any idea what the cost may be, cares greatly about how much of a particular drug is prescribed with any prescription. If one went around to every household in Australia and counted the amount of drugs in family medicine chests in those homes, one would find that there were more drugs there than in all the pharmacies in Australia. I have no doubt that the majority of drugs that are prescribed and dispensed finish up in the medicine chests for years and years until they are thrown out - that is, if they are not swallowed by 7-year olds. 
It is not absolute rot. A survey which was taken a couple of years ago showed that there were more drugs in Melbourne bathrooms than in Melbourne's pharmacies. One of the reasons for the rising costs in this industry is the advances made by medical science. Medical science has more to offer the patient. It is inevitable that a larger amount of drugs will be prescribed for the Australian people. However, a large number of drugs are prescribed unnecessarily. A great deal of this overprescription stems from the traditional reverence that we have for the magical qualities of a bottle of medicine. J think that it has been shown over the years that some drugs which have been regarded as the 'cure-all' subsequently have been looked at in a more moderate light. .1 mention antibiotics which were given once to everybody for everything. Antibiotics now are being prescribed in a much more limited fashion. The same remarks apply to tranquillisers and barbiturates. In fact, many of the drugs which some years ago were believed to be panaceas have been shown to be pharmacologically quite inert.  I  hope that the committee will have a good look at the costs that the Commonwealth is paying for the drugs under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme as it operates at present. What I mean is that I cannot see why the Commonwealth could not call tenders for a drug to be prescribed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme and, if a company is to supply that drug, the Commonwealth ought to pay the lowest tender price to any company that will supply a drug of suitable quality. The excess price will have to be met somewhere else. I think that would be a- pretty good way of rapidly reducing the cost to the Commonwealth of drugs. However, that is something that will have to be considered bv the committee. 
Once again, I say it is regrettable that pharmaceutical benefits are not to be examined by a standing committee. One of the problems with a select committee is that it sits for a long time, but as soon as its report is brought down the committee has done its dash. The report is brought down to the Parliament and it is then up to the Government to decide whether it will do anything about it. 
 The expertise is lost and the evidence is pushed to one side if the Government does not want to take any notice of it. Nobody has a continuing responsibility or interest to see that the report of the committee is implemented, because after the report is tabled the committee is dissolved. A standing committee would have a vested interest in seeing that its report was implemented. Another trouble with select committees is that, as we ail know, they tend to go from capital city to capital city and they take a lot of evidence that is repetitious. I wonder whether sometimes a select committee tends to take repetitious evidence because its members like to have their moment of glory, knowing that after their report is brought down the committee will go into dissolution. As I said, if we cannot have a standing committee, this is the second best. I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-- I want to raise a matter that will not take up more than a few minutes of the Committee's time. It does not involve a very large expenditure but it may have effects which will be out of proportion to the expenditure involved. I refer to the intention of the Department of Civil Aviation to erect a light aircraft terminal at Adelaide's West Beach Airport. The intention to construct this terminal was announced by the South Australian Regional Director in the Adelaide Press on 2nd July. The Director was quoted in the same article as saying that this project was needed to cope with the increasing use of the Airport by twin engined light charter aircraft. 
My concern on this matter is that of aircraft noise. From evidence which was presented to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise last year it is quite apparent that the volume of traffic at West Beach is increasing very rapidly indeed, and the inconvenience to the people who live in the area surrounding the airport, some of whom are in my own electorate, is growing in proportion. It follows that the group reaction of those citizens will become stronger also. I had the experience last year of attending a public meeting of residents in areas adjacent to the runways, and I can assure the Parliament that those residents were very disturbed indeed. 
I am not blaming the Government which moved the principal air terminal from Parafield to West Beach. As this change preceded the really noisy aircraft, no-one really foresaw the situation that would arise. Nor do I blame the officers of the Department of Civil Aviation, who do a good job in the circumstances. But I still hold the view which I expressed to the Select Committee last year that the Government should contemplate moving the airport out of the metropolitan area or, at the very least, should consider acquiring land and holding it for the present time so that it can keep its options open. 
But what particularly concerns me now is the announced intention of the Department to construct this light aircraft terminal. It is true that the light aircraft individually do not cause the same noise disturbance as do the larger aircraft, but the effect is cumulative. I believe the noise level is gauged by what is known as the noise and number index and that this index is already at that critical level which at other airports starts to produce signs of group behavioural responses in the residents in the area. It is interesting to note that this light aircraft terminal will be constructed even closer to the residential areas at West Beach than the existing main passenger air terminal. There is already a light aircraft centre at Parafield. I think we might reasonably ask: Is it really necessary to increase the volume of light aircraft traffic at West Beach? But even if it is necessary I would like to see the decision justified by the Government. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee told me this evening that this matter has not come before the Public Works Committee and in view of the fact that the expenditure is relatively small it is not likely to come before that Committee. A small expenditure may be involved but this airport is contributing to a very large problem - one that cannot be measured only in money. I object to this bureaucratic decision and I hope that the Government will submit the proposals and the justification for them to the Parliament before construction proceeds any further. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, by referring to the fact that the city of Canberra as well as providing an excellent example of metropolitan planning, has stable and even falling land prices. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is mainly due to the  acquistion,  subdivision and planned development of land by the Government, or rather by a Government agency? Does the Government propose to pursue the same policies in the development of Canberra's satellite city of Tuggeranong? Does the Government consider that similar action by State governments is any less desirable? If so, does the Government consider that the States have the resources to carry out such planned development? If not, is the Government willing to discuss with the State governments the feasibility of setting up revolving funds so that the State governments can acquire lands for urban development which will be both orderly and free from land speculation? 
Tonight I want to make an appeal to the Government to give special assistance for the remedial teaching of children with specific learning disabilities. The debate on the estimates for the Department of Education and Science naturally enough was mainly concerned with the education of normal children. I believe that the problem of children with specific learning disabilities is even more urgent. It is true that with the new CommonwealthState financial arrangements some improvement will be possible in the provision of education facilities by the State governments. In the case of children with specific learning disabilities, partial improvement in the position is not enough. Funds must be made available for the express purpose of remedial teaching for these children before they are too old to benefit from it. 
What are called specific learning disabilities cover a wide range of problems. Until quite recently, this group of disorders was given the name of dyslexia. However, dyslexia is only one form of a large group of disabilities. These children are, apart from their disability, otherwise normal having average or above average intelligence; but due to difficulties particularly associated with reading and writing the condition manifests itself firstly by the child failing to keep up with his classmates in his work. Sometimes the teacher may misinterpret this as lack of intelligence, sometimes even as laziness. After the first few years the child's work indeed becomes impaired in all subjects because no subject can be handled if a child is unable to read properly. Then follows the common complication of psychological effects. Due to frustration from being unable to perform as well as his classmates, in spite of an average or sometimes above average intelligence, certain behavioural problems frequently occur. 
All this is due to a problem which can be overcome with special remedial teaching. Such teaching can result, therefore, in a dramatic improvement in relation to the child's performance not only at his school work but in his personality and behaviour. Essential needs for these children are adequate facilities for diagnosis, for training of remedial teachers and for other equipment for teaching purposes. 
I hope that the Government will take an active role in overcoming this problem. It is an extremely common disability. Some members of the medical profession consider that the incidence is as high as  20  per cent. Some teachers regard the incidence as being even higher. I submit that no country can afford to have  20  per cent or more of its children growing up with an inadequate education. The need for special assistance is even more apparent when one considers that these children will receive the full benefits of education if they can have that special remedial teaching as well. Let us not deny these children the full benefits of education just for lack of some remedial teaching. 
Equally important is to avoid the social consequences. Some statistics of the United States show that a high percentage of criminals have left school before completing their secondary education and are unable to read. The inference can be drawn from this that the emotional and behavioural disorders which result from this inability to read may be a common predisposing factor in criminal behaviour. Surely the best way to achieve law and order is to prevent the development of the criminal personality. 
So far governments have done relatively little to help these children. All the initiatives in this case have been taken by the voluntary organisation known as SPELD. It is quite futile for the Government to expect a voluntary organisation to cope adequately with this problem. As an analogy, let us look at the Catholic schools where many parents strain their financial resources to the limit to give their children theeducationoftheirchoice.Yetsuch children frequently find themselves in overcrowded classes and in schools which lack adequate facilities and which in most respects are quite unsatisfactory. How much more difficult, then, will it be for parents of the children with specific learning disabilities to cope, if these children require more than average in the way of facilities and personalised instruction? 
I hope that the Government will immediately take steps to finance the training of remedial teachers. There is a recent precedent for this in that the Commonwealth Government has recently intervened in educating the child in another field of learning disability, that of those who cannot cope with the English language. Here the Commonwealth has undertaken to finance the training of teachers of migrant children. I hope that the Government will consider the provision of funds for capital works for these children with specific learning disabilities. 
In order to do this, 1 believe that the Handicapped Children's (Assistance) Act must be amended so that assistance can be given in respect of works carried out by the State education departments. I am glad that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is in the chamber. He has probably heard submissions on this matter already. As that Act stands at' the moment, there is an incentive for SPELD, the voluntary organisation, to set up its own facilities for these children. It is my belief that such a programme would be doomed to failure because no private organisation would have the resources to carry out this programme adequately. The Handicapped Children's (Assistance) Act as it stands at the moment is an incentive for private rather than government bodies to carry out the remedial teaching. The members of this organisation even regard themselves as inadequately equipped to carry out. this programme themselves. 
A relatively simple method of screening these children has recently been evolved in New South Wales. If the Commonwealth would finance the provision of. the facilities for testing children at pre-school or early school stage, the early diagnosis would gain valuable time. The Government already has the means to provide other assistance. This is the library grants. If these could be extended to primary schools, provision could be made for special equipment for those children who are unable to read and therefore unable to use the facilities of such libraries. 
I know that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has already received representations for Commonwealth intervention in this field. I hope that the Government will move quickly. I believe that the case is unanswerable. Furthermore, the need is urgent. If the Government takes 5 years to make up its mind many more children will pass through primary school without receiving that special assistance which is all that is needed to give them a normal education and to prevent untoward behavioural problems for the remainder of their lives. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 wish to support the motion of dissent from your ruling moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  In seeking to make a personal explanation, the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  discussed motives that were attributed to him by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  You - correctly, I believe - permitted the honourable member to make a personal explanation as to why he was outside at that demonstration. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  were out there also. They sought to make personal explanations too as to why they were there and to point out that the motives attributed to them by the honourable member for Deakin, when he was stating what he thought the philosophies of the audience were, were not correct. You did state also that the honourable member for Prospect was not entitled to make a personal explanation because when he was outside the House listening to the Moratorium discussion he was not a member of the House. I point out that the honourable member for Deakin was not a member of the House either. In fact,  Mr Arthur  is not a member of this House at all and the honourable member for Deakin was making a personal explanation on his behalf as well. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and refers to the latest 8-point proposals put forward by the delegation of the National Liberation Front at the Paris peace talks. Does the United States delegation regard the proposals as a possible breakthrough in the negotiations? If so, does the Australian representative at those talks agree with this assessment? If so, is the Australian Government now prepared to consider a political solution to the Vietnam conflict or does it remain committed solely to Vietnamisation - in other words, more fighting? 
asked the Minister for Trade  and Industry, upon notice: 
Have any of his election campaign speeches since the beginning of 1965 been written by an official or officials of his Department. 
If so, what was the date and place of delivery of each speech. 
What was the name of the official in each case. 
We have just heard a remarkable speech by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It was remarkable in terms of a contrast to the great words we heard him utter a couple of months ago when he was speaking on the same subject, lt was a very remarkable contrast to the opposition which he expressed in his Budget speech. It was also a remarkable contrast to the words of his Liberal-Country League colleagues in the South Australian Parliament when they discussed the same matter on 19th and 20th August this year. Having listened to the honourable member for Angas the only comment I have is that if that is his attitude and his Government's attitude to the wine industry, most of which is in his electorate, then I am afraid that the wine industry is in for a very severe economic hangover. 
 No. I dare say that his electors will bear it in mind when he shows his attitude by voting on this issue when it comes up later tonight. The Opposition is opposed to these taxation measures. The general tenor of our opposition has been expressed by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  when he pointed out that these forms of taxation are regressive and because they impose an undue burden on those in receipt of low incomes they are unacceptable to the Opposition which in principle supports progressive taxation which takes into account the principle of the capacity to pay and apportions the taxation burden according to that principle. 1 wish to speak mainly on the question of the effect the increased excise will have on South Australia, but before doing so I crave your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to mention a matter in relation to sales tax and indirect taxes that was referred to by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  before the suspension of the sitting when he was speaking to the Sales Tax Bill. He claimed that the Labor Opposition was being irresponsible because, he said, it was saying that the Government should spend a lot more money and yet lower taxation at the same time. If this were what the Labor Party was proposing this would be irresponsible, but the Labor Party is not suggesting this at all. Members of the Labor Party believe that there are many fields in which expenditure should be increased, but this does not mean that we would try to reduce taxation at the same time. What we do maintain is that there are many fields in which there has been misdirection of resources and misallocation of moneys by the Government. Even apart from that, the Labor Party is not necessarily suggesting that the overall revenue of the Government should be decreased. We have suggested that there should be drastic alterations to the present means of imposing taxation. We believe that the Government has done wrong in increasing regressive taxation. With respect to income tax we believe that as prices and wages have risen with the fall in the value of the Australian dollar the scale of taxation on the lower and middle income earners has been increased out of proportion. There should be great alterations to the taxation scales related to income. However the Government has not done this. All it has done is to provide an across the board reduction in income tax. lt has reduced by some 10 per cent the incidence of income tax on all incomes up to the $10,000 a year bracket. This has done nothing to alter the relative imposition on those in the lower income bracket. 1 wish, however, to refer to the effect on South Australia of the measures we are now discussing and the sales tax measures debated earlier. These are, in fact, sectional taxes upon South Australia, lt should scarcely be necessary for me to point out the great dependence of South Australia on those industries that are affected by sales tax - industries associated with motor vehicle production and with the manufacture of consumer durables. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell),  when he was debating the estimates of the Treasury, referred to the great number of people who are employed in South Australia not only in the manufacture of motor vehicles but in the manufacture of component parts. The South Australian Labor Government is doing its best to diversify industry in South Australia but it does not seem to receive much encouragement from its Liberal Country League opponents in that State. One of the most significant things done bv the first Dunstan Government in South Australia was to create a department to promote industrial development and appoint a full time director for it. lt is history now that when the Hall Liberal Government was elected in 1968 one of the first things it did was to ease  Mr Currie,  that wellqualified director, out of that job and replace him with someone else who had about 3 other important jobs as well Apparently the Hall Government believed that the job of diversifying and developing South Australian industry could be left to somebody who had a lot of other jobs - perhaps he could do that work on a Wednesday afternoon instead of playing golf. 
The wine industry is of tremendous importance to South Australia, as was pointed out by the previous  speaker.  In the motor vehicle industry there have been some instances of adverse effects on South Australia's economy. Already we have experienced such effects because of the high interest rate policy which is pursued by the Commonwealth Government. It was hoped that there would be some easing of this policy but the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  when he returned from Copenhagen last week, gave us little reason to hope for any relief from the existing rates, because he has said much about the principal problem facing all nations of the western world being inflation. It seems as though we will get more of the same high interest policy and the higher the interest the worse the effect on the consumer durable industries in South Australia. Added to this, of course, is the proposed increase in sales tax from 25 per cent to 274 per cent on consumer durables. 
Regarding the wine industry, most of the facts were mentioned by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in his excellent account of the industry, but it is worth remembering that in South Australia there are more than 5,000 grape growers who could be severely affected by the imposition of the proposed excise. A few facts are worth recapitulation. The Commonwealth Government will get the same revenue from a ton of wine grapes as will the grape grower himself. One ton of grapes produces between 120 to 140 gallons of wine and the taxation, in the form of excise, from this production will be about $60 to $70 which is almost equal to the average value of non-irrigated grapes and greater than the value of irrigated grapes. The honourable member for Angas said how 'iffy' the whole question was and that we could not say what the effect would be on the industry. 
That is conceded, but surely we have to take the evidence that has been presented. I do not know why the honourable member for Angas chose to ignore the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which is the only thing we have really on which to hang our hat. I think he referred to this review when he spoke so forthrightly on the subject during the Budget debate, but now that he has shown his hand and is going to vote against the measure he will not mention it at all. 
That is right. The facts are that at present there is something of a boom in the wine industry, particularly in relation to table wines. The reason for this, as has been well shown by the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, is that there has been a fall in the real price of table wines. In other words the actual price of the wines has gone up by a lesser amount than the retail price index has risen. The Bureau's report showed also that there is great flexibility in sales in relation to prices, so much so that however much the real price decreases there is a more than proportionate rise in sales, and the converse can be expected to apply. This is the only thing we have to go by, but could we examine what has happened in the short time since the price of wines has increased? It is perhaps early to draw any real conclusion about this, but my information is that with certain types and categories of wine sales have actually dropped and, as was predicted by the honourable member for Angas, the sales of flagons of fortified wines have dropped. It is possible, of course, that this is due to the fact that many consumers stockpile when they received notice that prices were to rise. If we are to draw any conclusion at all it is that there has been some effect already as a result of the increase in the price of wines. The honourable member for Riverina gave an excellent account of how this action by the Government is another example of the misallocation of resources by the Government. As I pointed out in my speech on the Budget, it is quite irrational for the Government to be subsidising certain primary industries that are very uneconomic at the same time as it is puting these penalties on very efficient industries. The wine industry is one such efficient industry that has not received any assistance. It has been in a buoyant state, but the Government is now trying, apparently, to crush this industry as well. The honourable member for Angas and some of the other South Australian members of this Parliament might like to be reminded of the following resolution that was passed by the South Australian House of Assembly on 20th August this year: 
That this House calls on members of the Federal Parliament representing South Australia to take action in the Federal Parliament to protect employment and development in South Australia from the impost on the sale of wines of 50c per gallon and from the increase of  2  per cent in sales tax on motor vehicles and electrical goods which are proposed in the Federal Budget and which will adversely affect South Australia far more than any other State. 
All the Labor members voted for it. I might point out the attitude of the Liberal-Country League Opposition in the Parliament at the time. I think the view of the Opposition was to support this in principle. This can be seen by the Amendment that was put forward by the LCL Opposition in the South Australian Parliament, which is not much different from the original resolution. This amendment was moved by  Mr Rodda  in the South Australian Parliament: 
To strike out all words after 'That' and insert this House inform the Prime Minister that the interests of the wine industry and the manufacturing industries in South Australia will be beneficially served if the increased taxes on the sale of wines and consumer goods be removed as soon as possible' 
This seemed to be pretty well the unanimous feeling of the South Australian Parliament, but I should mention that there seems to be one notable exception in all these deliberations, and that was the present South Australian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hall,  who seems to oppose persistently making any moves to the Commonwealth Government to try to get relief for South Australian industry. He has said that if we try to oppose the imposition of sales tax and excise, which is a sectional tax on South Australia, we are just running for help and asking for special treatment. But we are not doing anything of the sort. We are not asking for special treatment, but South Australians ask that they are not discriminated against. I. fell that the attitude of  Mr Hall  in this was quite remarkable, to say the least. South Australian members in this place now have the opportunity - and I hope that those on the Government side will take heed of the directions given by the South Australian Parliament in almost the same words by both sides - to. vote against these Bills. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that at present there is severe erosion of the Northern Territory part of the Ord River catchment area covering Vesteys' Mistake Creek Station. 
Has his attention been directed to Bulletin No. 3599 of the Department of Agriculture of Western Australia, which reports the progress of the Ord River catchment regeneration project covering 2,100,000 acres including the whole of Ord River and Turner River stations and part of Flora Valley station, formerly held by Vesteys and resumed in 1967 for erosion reclamation. 
If so, what action has been taken by his Department or the Northern Territory Administration for erosion reclamation on Mistake Creek Station. 
Has Mistake Creek Station or any part of it been resumed for erosion reclamation. 
If not, does the Government contemplate resumption of the whole or part of this station for erosion reclamation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the level  of  reserve funds of the Mutual Hospital Association Limited of South Australia at the end of the last financial year. 
What were the total (a) receipts from contributions, (b) payments in benefits and (c) expenses and running costs of the Associationin the last financial year. 
Where have the reserve funds of this Association been invested. 
Who are the directors of the Association. 
Is he able to say whether any of the directors hold equityin any of the enterprises or institutions in which the reserves of the Association have been invested.. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on -social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most fingal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions 'policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition: so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to discuss the appropriation for the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. I am concerned with one of the most sordid affairs in post-war Australian politics. 1 refer to the Queensland Government allowing the aluminium company. Comalco, to deprive the Aboriginals at Weipa on Cape York Peninsula of their birthright, and the recent acceptance by members of the Queensland Government of a preferential issue of shares ki Comalco. The whole deal was begun by the Queensland Government which passed legislation excising no less than 91 per cent of the Aboriginal reserve at Weipa and handing it over to the mining company. What was the mining company prepared to do, in return, for the Aboriginals? There was no end of promises to provide improved education, employment opportunities, housing and an improved standard of living in general for the Aboriginals. According to the Queensland Minister concerned - this was in November 1957 - the company would provide a dormitory within the reserve to house single natives employed by the company, it would erect a trades school to enable youths to have tuition to fit them for apprenticeships and it would provide fencing for the reserve. 
None of these promises has been implemented. Only a tiny fraction of the Aboriginals at Weipa are employed by the mining company. There has been no trade training for any of them, and of course training for executive positions is out of the question. The mining company initially gave an assurance that there would be desegregated schooling. What has actually happened is that there is now the school for Aboriginals on the old mission site and another shcool for European children at the township, 7 miles away. The occasional European child in the area of the mission site needing schooling is taken to the European school, an expense the Queensland Government claimed was not warranted for Aboriginal children. 
So called 'adequate housing' was promised, but what was the performance? It was a payment of $300,000, which the Queensland Department of Native Affairs used to construct 62 houses at an average cost of $4,900. This allocation meant that the Aboriginal houses lacked laundries and sewerage, something which Aborigines apparently can do without. In contrast, the average expenditure on each European house was $28,000. On top of that many amenities were provided in the new township which have turned out to be unavailable for non-whites. The reward to Comalco for trampling on the Aboriginals at Weipa is probably the richest bauxite deposit in the world, with a value of something like 12 billion dollars. The cost has been the payment of $300,000 for Aboriginal housing plus a royalty of 5c per ton of bauxite. This royalty incidentally is paid into Queensland consolidated revenue. This is an interesting contrast to the royalty of 20c per ton paid by Nabalco for the bauxite at Gove in the Northern Territory and which is paid, not into Commonwealth consolidated revenue, but into an Aboriginal trust fund. 
And now we come to the big pay-off to the Queensland Government which has presided over the whole ugly deal. Preferential issues of shares in Comalco were made to these members of the Queensland cabinet:  Mr Chalk,  the Treasurer, 1500 shares;  Mr Rae,  Minister for Local Gov.ernment and Electricity, 1500 shares;  Mr Hodges,  Minister for Police and Works, 1200 shares;  Mr N.  Hewitt, Minister for Conservation and - note - Aboriginal Affairs, 1200 shares;  Mr Tooth,  Minister for Health, 1200 shares; and  Mr Campbell,  Minister for Industrial Development, 700 shares. These 50c shares were offered with a premium of $2.25, making a total payment of $2.75 per share. When they came on the market these shares opened at $5.70 each and rose to $5.90 each on the first day. They are at present valued at $5.50, a hundred per cent profit - not a bad transaction. 
The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  probably will tell us that 50,000 shares are held in trust for the Aborigines. If these were distributed to each Aboriginal at Weipa there would he about 8 shares per person, but it is worse than that because the shares are held in trust for all the Aboriginals of Queensland. In this Parliament in June the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  declared that the preferential issues of shares to the Queensland Government members was not his concern. This is not so at all. By a large majority in the 1967 referendum the Australian people gave power to the Commonwealth to legislate for the welfare of the Aboriginal people. The Commonwealth must now act resolutely and quickly to preserve the future of the Weipa Aboriginals from the predatory actions of the mining company and the Queensland Government. With the power of export licensing the Commonwealth has all the powers it needs. There is one further very sinister aspect to the matter. I have it on good authority that the Queensland Government now has a policy of separate but equal development at Weipa. I think we all have a very clear picture in our minds of what separate but equal development means. Its more common name is apartheid. The Queensland Government has no intention of integrating the white and black communities at all. 1 am not talking about South Africa; I am talking about a Government right here in Australia. The Commonwealth Government is legally and morally bound to forestall these actions which are completely contrary to the policy of the Federal Government and the wishes of the Australian people. 
Finally, I would like to refer to two extracts from the Townsville 'Daily Bulletin' of Saturday, 11th July 1970. On that day an Aboriginal man was jailed for 2 years with hard labour for attempting unlawfully to use a motor vehicle. The man was said to have a lengthy criminal record including a number of charges for unlawfully using motor vehicles. On the same page is an account of 2 men who pleaded guilty to five charges of breaking and entering. Both these latter men had previous convictions and currently were serving 18 months on probation. For these 5 further offences they were placed on probation. Here are 2 cases in the same Court, the same day, the same judge. The black man gets 2 years for attempting to unlawfully use a car, the white men are put on probation for 5 separate offences of breaking and entering. 1 think this requires no further comment, except that this was an extract from the local paper of the one day of my life I have spent at Townsville. If this is a representative sample of justice in Townsville, T would suggest it is time that attention was given to using the courts to dispense justice without fear or favour and without regard to colour. The member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  incidently is no doubt doing a splendid job for the Returned Services League in Townsviile. It is about time he threw off his inertia and helped the Aboriginal community in his electorate. I have waited for him to speak up for the Aborigines in his area, but T have waited in vain. I have no doubt his electors will give him the treatment he deserves ;n 1.972. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and is supplementary to a question asked earlier this week by the honourable member for Warringah. It concerns the Commonwealth Government's lack of emergency powers such as those recently invoked by the Government of Canada. Does this mean that if, for example, a hypothetical state secessionist movement in Australia resorted to terrorisation the Commonwealth would not be able legally to invoke its defence power- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I do not make any apology for wanting to speak on this States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill. In the first place I will refer to some of the comments of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  on my speech earlier this week when I waa speaking to the appropriation for the office of Aboriginal Affairs. I am in complete agreement with the Minister in his policy as he outlined it. To condemn a policy of separate development, which was what I did, is not to insist that all Aboriginals are to be forced into white society and the European way of life. I think the Minister was being a little bit unfair when he attributed such objectives to me. I wholeheartedly agree that the Aboriginals must be given complete freedom of choice. For white Australians to say to the Aboriginals: 'You must adopt our way of life; you must come and join us' would be unforgivable arrogance. This would imply that there is something about our way of civilisation which is superior to that of the Aboriginals. Such a suggestion would be intolerable. However, for those Aboriginals who wish to adopt the European way of life we must offer complete integration and complete equality. 
The charge I levelled against the Queensland Government arises from my understanding that a policy of separate but equal development at Weipa was to be enforced. This matter was carefully avoided by the Minister when he spoke yesterday. I hope he has made inquiries into the matter and I would be pleased if he could provide further information on it to the Parliament. The Minister alleged that he could not interfere with the activities of the Queensland Government because he and his Government believed in the rights of the States. I have already said in this House before that the rights of State governments - in fact the rights of any government - are secondary. What matter are the rights of people. For that matter the Commonwealth Government did not worry about the rights of the States when it tried to legislate earlier this year on off-shore minerals. I do not think it should worry about the rights of State governments. State governments do not have rights; Commonwealth Governments do not have rights. Governments only have responsibilities. It is only people who have rights. I think the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government is to safeguard the human rights of the Aboriginal people. 
I support the amendment. We want not just a greater amount of aid for Aboriginals. It is not a quantitative criticism that we are making of the Government; the criticism is a qualitative one. We say that we must try to achieve a target. We are trying to achieve complete freedom, equality and integration for all those Aboriginals who want it. We are not asking for a bit here and a bit there, which is what this legislation sets out to do. I do not want to make light of what the Government has done, but I feel we must raise our sights and make a positive target. 
I would like to say something about the fundamental meaning of land to the Aboriginal people. I think this is particularly relevant at the moment because I note that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  referred to what will happen at Roper River. Perhaps I am a bit out of date, but my understanding is that the last thing the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  said about Roper River was that the Aboriginal people there would be given title to the land provided they paid for it like everybody else. I could not agree with this attitude, lt seems rather extraordinary to me. We can just imagine ourselves being in the position of an Aboriginal in such a circumstance and being told that the white man will let us have back the land originally taken from us without compensation providing we can produce the white man's currency. This is the same old attitudethat the Western Christian ethos is sancrosanct and all other cultures must defer to it. 
After the right to live, the most fundamental right and the most fundamental need of the Aboriginal people is land. As the Yirrkala Aboriginals in Arnhem Land stated in their current claim in their dispute with the Commonwealth and Nabalco Pty Ltd, their connection with the land is timeless and inextinguishable. If any part of Aboriginal land is to be excised, it should be the standard practice to weigh the benefits to the white man against the disadvantages to the Aboriginals. Whether this every done I do not know. But 1 am certain that the importance of land to Aboriginal culture is not taken into account adequately. The concept of land to the tribal Aboriginals is, or was, very different from our own. I would like to quote briefly from a lecture given by Professor Stanner in the 1968 Boyer lectures. He said: 
No English words are good enough to give  a  sense of links between an Aboriginal group and its homeland. 
He said also: 
Our word 'land' is too spare and meagre. We can now scarcely use it except  wilh  economic overtones unless we happen to be poets. The Aboriginal would speak of 'earth' and use the word in a richly symbolic way to mean his shoulder' or bis 'side'.  1  have seen an Aboriginal embrace the earth he walked on. To put our words home' and 'land' together into 'homeland' is  a  little better but not much. A different tradition leaves us tongueless and earless towards this other world of meaning and significance. When we took what we call 'land' we took what to them meant hearth, home, the source and locus of life, and everlastingness of spirit. At the same time it left each local band bereft of an essential constant that made their plan and code of living  intelligble.  Particular pieces of territory, each a homeland, formed part of a set of constants without which no affiliation of any person to any other person, no link in the whole network of relationships, no part of the complex structure of social groups any longer had all its co-ordinates. What  1  describe as 'homelessness', then, means that the Aborigines faced a kind of vertigo in living. 
With a few exceptions, therefore, loss of land to the Aboriginal means loss of his traditional way of life, loss of the traditional ties with the past, which are essential to the whole Aboriginal culture. 
An examination of Aboriginal mythology shows it to be intimately bound up with all the environment of the Aboriginals - the hills, the waterfalls, the fish. Many of these have human form in Aboriginal mythology. Even certain stones have a sacred connotation. The Aboriginal culture, with its connection with the past, provides a great contrast with the European society. The more affluent white person, to use the popular parlance of sociologists, is future orientated; that is to say, he directs his activities to future comfort and security. He stays at school longer; he improves his educational status in the interests of peronal security; he may take out life assurance; he saves his money to secure his family, and so on. The under-privileged white man who is living in poverty is orientated more towards the present. Coming from a poor environment, he lacks the expectation and incentives to give much thought to the future. He leaves school earlier and saves less. On the other hand, the tribal Aboriginal is neither of these. He is orientated towards the past. The centre of Aboriginal culture is the past - and the past is inextricably associated with the land. It is not surprising, therefore, that loss of land has placed many Aboriginal people into a limbo and into a situation becoming, as  Dr Coombs  has said, a depressed rabble of fringe dwellers. Nothing - is more fundamental than land rights. But for those dispossessed either voluntarily or involuntarily from the land- 
With respect, I submit that it is of most fundamental importance. However, I have said what I wanted to say on this. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I would now like to wind up my remarks. I cannot help saying that my temperature is slowly rising because of the sneering remarks being made by members of the Country Party, the so-called representatives of all Australians. I think their remarks are extremely misplaced. 
Previous speakers have mentioned employment. Our target must not be to provide just jobs. We should be aiming at having Aboriginals take their places in the professions, in executive jobs and in the skilled trades as well as other occupations. I am sorry that the Government has not shown a little more interest in the debate tonight. I do not want to make party polltics out of such an important matter. I hope that all Australians, old and new, black and white, will play their part in providing equal freedom and equal living standards for everyone, regardless of colour. Previous generations solved the problem of racial conflict in Australia by trying physically to exterminate the Aboriginals. This imbalance in numbers is now correcting itself because of a relatively high birth rate in the Aboriginal population. We must all strive to avoid racial conflict. Whilst there are such examples of inequality and discrimination the seeds of conflict are there. But even apart from the selfish interest surely we must do unto all others as we would have them do unto us. Only if we do this can Australians regard themselves with respect. I can think of no more important matter for the future of this country. I support the amendment but I wish the Minister well in this struggle against vested interests. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth. 
I present the following petition. 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate of 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for ail States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We have been listening to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who is a well known lobbyist for the wool selling brokers and the other private financial institutions. 
Why? 

 Mr IRWIN (Mitchell)- Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Kingston mentioned that I was a lobbyist for brokers. 
I do not know any broker personally or otherwise. I have never had any association with any broker. The honourable member's remark is a reflection on my character. 
 A point of order- 
Or GUN -  Mr Speaker,  we can take comfort from the fact that the honourable member for Mitchell is opposed to this proposal. I should have thought there is ho doubt that there are many occasions when the interests of wool growers and of the people of Australia at large are difficult to reconcile with the interests of wool selling brokers. I think we can take comfort from the fact that the honourable member for. Mitchell is opposed to the general principles behind this legislation. It sounds to me that he is advocating a sort of social Darwinism - something that I am afraid we cannot afford in the present state of the wool industry. Tremendous problems are facing us as a result of the present position in the wool industry. In the first place, there is the problem concerning foreign exchange which the wool industry is still responsible to maintain to a large degree. There is the increasing problem of rural poverty and there is the problem that if nothing is done about this industry there will be a continuing and growing drain on the taxpayers' money. So for those reasons I believe that something must be done for the wool industry. 
There seems to be some difference between what one understands this Bill to mean, from reading it, and what the 
Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  says it means. Clause 21 of the Bill defines the powers of the Australian Wool Commission. It states: 
The Commission has power to do, in Australia or elsewhere, all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with, or as incidental to, the performance of its functions . . . 
Then it goes on to itemise the functions. The Commission has power: 
to inspect and appraise wool presented for sale at auction and 
to buy wool at auction or otherwise. 
Therefore, almost plenary powers are being given to the Commission which, of course, is a very good thing. It really means that the Commission, if it wants to, can go outside the auction system to sell wool. It certainly appears to me, from reading subclause (b) of clause 21, that if the Commission wants to do so, it can bypass the wool selling brokers. My reading of that sub-clause leads me to believe that representatives of the Commission can go onto the property of the wool grower and perhaps acquire the wool direct. But that is something about which I should like to inquire of the Minister when we come to the Committee stage of the debate. Let us compare what appear to be the almost plenary powers of the Commission as outlined in the Bill with what was said by the Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech. He said: 
What was put to the Government was a body which should be given certain powers relating to the whole clip but working within the existing marketing arrangements in which a number of private firms carry out the physical task of selling wool. The Government has very largely adopted the proposals put to it by the industry and they have been embodied in this BilL 
If we go by what the Minister has said the Commission will operate through largely the present mechanism, namely, the private wool selling brokers. This is unfortunate. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is the establishment of an authority which will undertake the business of wool selling broking on behalf of and for the benefit of the growers. The Australian Labor Party generally supports this Bill because it provides for a reserve price system. My Party is committed to supporting a reserve price plan, although probably not in the same form as is envisaged by the Government. My Party would like to see a fund set up which is vested in the growers themselves rather than in the Government. It hopes ultimately to do this. Of course, they would have to be the growers' funds. The Labor Party recognises that in the present state of the industry, with the price of wool as it is, it would not be possible for this money to be found. However, it is hoped that the industry will be resurrected to a position where it is viable and self supporting so that the stage will be reached where the initial outlay of the taxpayers' funds will be amortised and we have a fund which is vested in the growers themselves and operates for the benefit of the growers and not the private wool selling brokers. 
Contrary to what the honourable member for Mitchel has said, I certainly think that there is cartelisation on the part of the wool selling brokers. We have plain evidence of this in the fact that there are uniform price arrangements and uniform fees are charged by the wool selling brokers. This is a restrictive trade practice. I do not know why the Government has tolerated this practice. It would appear, as if -the Government is very much beholden to the. wool selling brokers and the other financial institutions in this country. The price averaging plan of last year is another example of a conflict of interest between the wool selling brokers and the wool growers. Rather than allow the star lots to be bought' and sold privately, which would have saved overheads and increased returns to the growers, the Government allowed the Wool Marketing Corporation to be set up, which may have been to the advantage of the wool selling brokers, but not the wool growers. 
As far as 1 can determine from the Minister's second reading speech the Australian Wool Commission will enter into business as another buyer. In other words, it will become another of the buyers on the floor participating in the auction system. The Australian Labor Party would like to see the Commission operate as a wool selling broker. This is something which it would appear from a literal reading of the Bill will come later. I believe that there is scope for the Commission to go into business as a wool selling broker. I would like to see the Commission ultimately operating in this fashion. In this way it would be able to acquire all of the wool and sell it by auction, contract, inter government treaty, tender or any other method and private buying and selling could still take place if desirable. 
I wish to run through some of the merits which I see in the proposals before the House. Firstly, the Bill will allow the operation of a flexible reserve price plan. I think we have to be realistic about this matter. I do not think that we will achieve the dramatic result of returning wool prices to what they were in the good old days. I believe that the competition of synthetics will mean that we cannot hope to return to the prices which obtained in, say, the days of the Korean War. What we are trying to do now is restore confidence in the wool market. The main function of this Commission will be to eliminate the undue fluctuation which has occurred through . a diminution in the number of buyers in -the market; The result has been a decrease in competition, and because of this there is evidence that wool is being sold at auctions at prices which .are less than those which the buyers have been prepared to pay. 
I feel that the operation of a flexible reserve price plan will go a considerable way towards restoring confidence within the industry. The trouble in the industry has been that, -with the competition from synthetics, there has been somewhat of a downward trend in the price of- wool over the years; but there has been a completely new phase in the last few months in that the price of wool has completely collapsed. I hope that the Wool Commission will restore the situation to what it was before prices collapsed. However, I do not think that we can prevent the continuing threat to the wool industry from synthetics. I do not think it is of any use believing, with a feeling of nostalgia, that we will bring back the good old days and get the high prices that we had before. It would be disastrous for the wool industry to try to hold the manufacturers to ransom by maintaining a fixed reserve price. I could not think of anything that would be more disastrous for the industry. I could not think of anything that would so hasten the movement of manufacturers into the field of synthetics. It might also aggravate the situation at the producer end, because it may mean that the wheat growers would shift into the wool industry which is exactly the opposite to what .happened a. few years ago when this Government said: 'Grow all the wheat you can, boys, and we will give you a first payment of $1.10 for every bushel you can grow.' I think that the reverse situation is very likely to occur particularly with the impending entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community. 
Furthermore, I can envisage the spectre of large stockpiles of wool if we try to maintain too inflexible a reserve price system. The difference between a realistic reserve price policy and an unrealistic one is that we have to have some degree of flexibility. Another advantage of this scheme is the objective testing of wool which will, I feel, help to restore confidence in the industry. This should increase the return to the grower. This would be achieved by reducing the number of claims against the buyers on account of inaccurate valuations, and it should enable a more efficient processing of wool. 
The system will permit private selling to be retained. At the seminar of the Australian Institute of Political Science held in Goulburn last weekend I was most interested to hear the pros and cons discussed as to whether the private buying and selling of wool would undermine the auction system. Without having any expertise on this matter 1 would not like to say one way or the other. But I feel that it is probably a good thing to allow private buying and selling to continue under the scrutiny of the Commission which can, under the provisions of this Bill, review its policy at any time. Another matter which is of fundamental importance is that the Commission can, after it has acquired wool, go outside the auction system if it wants to dispose of the wool in that way. I have not sufficient time in this debate to pursue that matter any further. Firstly, as I have already mentioned, there is provision in the Bill for the Commission to go into business as a wool selling broker. 
The principal demerit of the Commission is not a sin of commission but a sin of omission in that there is no provision for any restructuring of the industry or, what we now euphemistically call, farm adjustment. I cannot see that this is any less urgent that the problem of reforming the marketing system. I think that this is a severe indictment on the Government because even if there had not been a catastrophic fall in. the price of wool over the last few months surely to goodness we had to see that something had to be done about restructuring the industry. The fact is that we have a certain amount of income from wool. In spite of the drop in the price of wool we have been able to keep that income up, but not increase our wool cheque very much, by increased productivity. With our wool cheque as it is at the moment we cannot expect to maintain the number of wool growers that we now have with a reasonable standard of living. The answer, as Professor Campbell suggested at the weekend and as I have suggested on a number of other occasions, is an aggregation of holdings. 
Sooner or later we will have to make up our minds which of those in the industry can be made economically viable and which cannot. We have to decide which farmers can be put on the right path. Perhaps those farmers just lack capital. We might be able to put them on the right path by debt reconstruction, by long term loans or by consolidation of debts. We should allow those whom we cannot possibly help to remain in the industry if they wish but we cannot expect that such people should receive a continuous remittance from the taxpayers. Such people have to be helped by a whole spectrum of measures. This is not just a matter of getting a person off the land or diversifying his activities. It is a social welfare problem; it is a matter of educating or reeducating the families of wool growers and taking social welfare measures. At the same time, of course, we have to have a look at the problem of decentralisation. We should not just talk about this problem. The big tragedy at the moment is that there is absolutely no machinery at all to enable this restructuring of the industry. 
I cannot understand how supporters of the Government can really claim to have the interests of the industry at heart if they have not given any consideration to this problem. The Minister for Primary Industry said in his second reading speech that he would give urgent consideration to this matter. But after all these years there is just no administrative structure, there is no legislation and there is absolutely nothing. 
The South Australian Government cannot do anything until the Commonwealth gives a lead. The one exception is the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales. There is nothing more futile in this industry than subsidies. There is absolutely no way ot justifying the payment of subsidies. In particular, 1 have in mind the subsidies that were provided in the Commonwealth Budget this year. As far as I can see the only way that a subsidy can be justified is if we want people to go into the wool industry. But at present there are too many people in the industry at the moment. The payment of subsidies is a luxury we cannot afford. This country wants to achieve a great number of things at the moment. With the prosperity that we have we have to try to put our wealth to good use. We have to do something about Aboriginal welfare, the problems of cities and pollution and all the other problems that face us. We cannot afford to be handing out money that in the long run will be of no use to wool growers and which will just be a drain and a liability on the other programmes that could be carried out. 
I regret that the wording of this Bill is somewhat defeatist. I refer particularly to section 25 (4.) (b) which states:  any part of the profit not so applied shall be transferred to a reserve for meeting losses of subsequent years. 
This rather assumes that things will be pretty black whatever happens. It appears that in the long run we will not make anything out of this proposal at all. I hope we can do a little better than this and make the industry self supporting so that it will not be a continual drain on the taxpayer. If we can have an industry that is viable and self suporting this will be to the benefit of rural and urban communities. Another objection that I have to the Bill is that there is no limit stated by the Commonwealth on the outlay. I know that there are difficulties in this. If we stipulate a certain limit on a Treasury appropriation we will find a problem in that buyers might try. to hold out on us and the scheme will crack. 1 know there is a problem but I think we should set some limit to the outlay. . . 
I feel that another serious defect in the legislation is that it is too much open to political pressure. For example there is nothing to stop the Minister for Primary Industry from jacking up the reserve price if an election is close and he feels he is in trouble in his electorate. I suppose the Minister might be outraged by such a suggestion. 
The Minister for the  Interior  is saying that only because he expects that he will be the Minister for Primary Industry before very long. I have no doubt that after the next federal election for the House of Representatives there will be a Labor Minister for Primary Industry. In general I support this legislation, but there is a great deal of room for improvement. I hope to have something more to say about that at the Committee stage. 
Thursday, 29 October 1970 
The Minister's answer seems to me to be rather unsatisfactory. It means that if he, as the Minister concerned, does not want a particular person to remain on the Commission as a  deputy  he has to label him as a cheat or as someone who has been guilty of some misconduct in order to get rid of him. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 15  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16. (1.) If a member - 
being the  Chairman,  engages in paid employment outside the duties of his office; 
becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit; 
is absent, except on leave granted by the Minister, from three consecutive meetings of the Commission; or 
fails to comply- with his obligations under the next succeeding sub-section, the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member from office. (2.) A member who is directly or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than twenty-five person shall, as soon as possible after the relevant factshave come to bis knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Commission. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  neglected to answer one point that 1 made during the second reading debate which seems to be pretty fundamental to the whole scheme. This is concerned with clause 21 (b), which states that the Commission can 'buy wool at auction or otherwise'. It seems to me that this means that the Commission can do just about anything. We are not quarrelling with this, but, as I mentioned before, we do quarrel with the fact, as interpreted by the Minister in his second reading speech, that it is always necessary to provide wool selling brokers as intermediaries when the Commission purchases wool through the auction system. It seems to me that we have now reached the situation where the Commission could find itself in the position of a private buyer. In other words, it could go on to the property of the grower and purchase wool there. In that case it would be operating as a private wool selling broker. 
Perhaps it could be interpreted in another way, but clause 18 (1.) (g) provides that one of the functions of the 
Commission is 'to make arrangements for the sale, otherwise than at auction, of wool received by a broker for sale at auction . . .'. In other words, the Commission can go to a broker and say: This lot is no good. We will not put this on auction. The Commission has decided it will dispose of it in some other way.' Surely if that contingency were to be covered, it would be mentioned in section 21 (b). In other words, it seems to me that the Commission is being given plenary powers. We do not quarrel with this. It is the sort of thing that we would like to be done. We believe the Commission should move in on the business and operate for the growers and squeeze the wool . selling brokers out altogether. But I wonder whether the Minister could make this clear. We would like to see this operating. No doubt what the Commission will actually do within the framework of the legislation will depend on the personnel appointed to operate the Commission. However, I think the Committee should know whether this is the intention of those 2 extra words 'or otherwise'. 
I take a point of order. Does the Minister have to seek leave to move the third reading forthwith? 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
 We therefore call upon the Commonwealth 
Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Of the 1,411 matters dealt with by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in 1969, in how many cases was there a delay between filing the petition and commencement of the hearing of (a) less than one week, (b) more than one week but less than one month, (c) more than one month but less than six months and (d) more than six months. 
In how many of the 1,411 matters was the period between commencement of the hearing and the date of the determination (a) less than one day, (b) more than one day but less than one week, (c) more than one week but less than one month, (d) more than one month but less than six months and (e) more than six months. 
The Opposition supports this project and I would like to join other speakers in congratulating the members of the Public Works Committee on their report. I will express just a few reservations that are purely personal. They are mainly in the form of questions that perhaps might be answered for me by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  or the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  representing the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  These are just a few personal observations. I am sorry that once again the Public Works Committee has to be the butt of criticism. This is not in any way a reflection on the very fine work it has done for the Parliament during the year. 
First of all, I am concerned about the ambivalence of the Government in the degree of urgency of this project. I also have certain reservations about the effect the base or the causeway will have on the ecology of the area. A lot of evidence has been given before the Public Works Committee on the effect on the environment. Most of the fears centre on the flow of water through the Sound which will severely affect the environment. This flow will probably be reduced by as much as a third or a half by the causeway blocking the Sound. Some reference is made to this in one of the submissions to the Committee by  Dr Keith  Crook of the Australian National University. I would like to quote from this submission because it makes me think that the Committee has thought about the environment only as an afterthought. 
I am sorry. I did not mean that the Committee treated it as an afterthought, I meant the Commonwealth Department of Works. In his submission to the Committee  Dr Crook  said: 
The fact that the feasibility study was based on a causeway with a single opening, and that a second opening of larger cross section is now found advantageous, suggests that feasibility of the causeway as a concept was assessed on engineering and narrow economic criteria, with little regard for environmental considerations. Such considerations have certainly influenced the final design, but there is some reason for believing that the design changes anti-date the availability of environmental data. 
Other material was presented to the Committee but I do not want to go through it all now. Mention has been made of the problem of restricted Bow through the Sound which could be exacerbated by the fact that the West Australian Government intends to put a sewerage plant at Point Peron, the effluent from which would go into the Indian Ocean, lt is suggested by  Dr Crook  that the tides would carry this around the Point and into the Sound. Mention has also been made of the dangers of erosion and other effects which could cause the death of sea grass on the sills around the margin of the Sound and this in turn could cause erosion and foundation failure of the causeway. This plus siltation effects in the Sound could result in the base itself being rendered unworkable or costly and difficult to maintain. A further fact that was mentioned was that there is no guarantee that there is not going to be any underwater mining in the Sound which could also have effects on the marine biology. 

 Dr Crook also mentioned in his submission that there seemed to be some evidence of undue haste - not, I hasten to add. on the part of the Committee but on the part of the Commonwealth Department of Works in its submissions on how soon the project would go ahead. On page 8 of  Dr Crook's  submission he said: 
At 4 points in the Department of Works statement reference is made to the scheduling of the project in such a way as to suggest that it is viewed as something of a crash programme. Among these points are the desire that work commence in January 1971 and the unwillingness to wait li years for the results of scale model studies. This view is further supported by the incomplete nature of the Department of Works statement, and the fact that design approval has outrun the collection of supporting data. 
The point I wish to make is that there does appear to be undue haste as far as the Commonwealth Department of Works submission is concerned. But the point that most concerns me about the report of the Public Works Committee is that while the function of the Public Works Committee is to make an examination of the project from the standpoint of engineering and economic feasibility and effects on the environment, the strategic considerations are really primarily the concern of Cabinet. They are not so much the concern of the Public Works Committee. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard Paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 on page 3 of the report relating to the proposed construction of the Point Peron-Garden Island causeway. 
At the public hearings we took a considerable amount of sometimes conflicting evidence from witnesses expressing reservations about the proposed development from a number of viewpoints. Some of the evidence suggested that insufficient investigations had been made for an unequivocal assurance to be given that the proposed work would not have harmful long term effects on the natural environment of Cockburn Sound and Garden Island. More positive assertions on these lines were made by some witnesses. 
Contrary evidence on these aspects was given by departmental and supporting witnesses and we were told of the various investigations which had been taken into account when the project was being developed. 
It was also submitted that Garden Island should continue to be available for recreational use and that the survival of the Island's flora and fauna would be prejudiced by the proposed development. 
During our final consideration of the proposal, we closely studied the evidence given by all witnesses and the result of our study is reflected in the extract from the minutes of the meeting held on 21 October which is quoted in paragraph 37 below. Clearly we could not reach a decision acceptable to alt witnesses or other people interested in the Cockburn Sound area but it was the view of the majority of the Committee that the proposed development on Garden Island is essential and that the construction of a causeway for access purposes is appropriate having regard to all the circumstances. lt does suggest to me that undue consideration was given to strategic matters and not enough consideration to the effects on the environment. One wonders how urgent the project really is when one looks at the statement made by  Sir Allen  Fairhall when he was Minister for Defence, shortly before he retired from office. He said: 
If one looks al the size of our Australian Navy, it would be completely ludicrous at this stage - and for some time to come - to talk about our having a 2-ocean Navy and I hope nobody will take this as any indication that we ought not to think about that rather desirable aim. 
He goes on to say that although the Government regards it as an essential project the urgency of it is questionable. It is important to remember that when  Sir Allen  Fairhall made this speech the Government was in full flight under pressure from the Democratic Labor Party from the Freeth doctrine of using a short spoon when supping with the Soviet Union. The Minister for Defence made a statement, earlier this month, suggesting that the matter is not really one of top urgency for the Government I cannot understand the necessity for the sudden urgency. Why can we not have a look at the environmental considerations? 
J have been asked to cut my remarks short. I want to ask a couple of question that I am not quite satisfied about, and I hope that the Minister can answer them for me. In the first place, I am not quite sure why we cannot have a bridge across from the mainland to the island instead of a causeway. This seems to me pretty axiomatic. I cannot see any reason why we do not have it. Secondly, I want to know why this particular site was chosen. I have Albany in mind, particularly. I have not seen Albany myself, although I lived in Western Australia. I have listened to what some of my Western Australian friends have told me. They tend to be very sensitive about how good their State is. They all tell me that Albany is one of the best deep water harbours in the world. I cannot see why it was rejected by the Committee. The evidence given to the Public Works Committee stated that Albany was too far to the south. Too far south for what? That is something I cannot understand. 
Another objection to the siting of the base at Albany was that it does not have the industrial backing that a site near Perth would have. I would have thought that this would be an argument in favour of decentralisation. Is it not one of the arguments that if the population is concentrated too much in the cities it becomes too vulnerable to nuclear attack? From a defence point of view surely it would be an advantage to decentralise and perhaps shift the base out to Albany. Finally I would like to quote an article concerning the naval base being a matter of great urgency. It says: 
By emotionally conceding to oceans more importance than human opinion, Western countries are simply playinginto Russia's hands. 
This is not from a radical journal. It is from an editorial of the 'Australian Financial Review' of 3rd September. It is a very interesting article. I commend it to all honourable members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether all hospitals in South Australia charge all surgical patients a theatre fee. 
If so, what is the range of this fee in South Australian hospitals. 
What is the Commonwealth benefit payable to the patient in respect of theatre fees. 
What is the range of fund benefits paid for these fees. 
Is a substantial sum payable by the patient in all cases. 
If so, is this consistent with his claim that the cost to the patient of any operation will not exceed $5, providing the doctors charge the common fee. 
I refer to the Prime Minister's statement to the House yesterday that Australia's support for the South Vietnamese is giving them the opportunity for freedom and liberty. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a signed article in the 'New York Times' of 22nd February, headed Two Catholic Priests in Saigon get 9-monih Jail Terms for Publishing Articles Asking an End to the War? Is he aware that there is a substantial body of opinion within South Vietnam itself that the greatest barrier to freedom and liberty is the present Saigon Government, which the Australian Government is helping to uphold by armed force? 
This Bill represents a very welcome change from the historical attitude of Liberal Party and like-minded governments to the problem of crime. The traditional attitude has been to enforce the law rather than to treat the cause of the crime. This has meant the use of police to defend those who have property from those who have not. There is an urgent need to study the causes of all human individual and group behavioural deviations, not only of crime in its conventional sense, but also of racism, drug taking and war. In the long run, prevention of these things is cheaper, in every sense of the word, than waiting until they occur and then trying to cure them. Expenditure on the investigation of the root causes of these current social problems will be money well spent. It is about these root causes that I want to talk tonight. The intial outlay of $100,000 is very small, but I expect that it will increase as the Institute of Criminology becomes operational. But even this amount, small as it is. I am sure will be a very good investment in the future security of Australia, the security of our children and a better investment than the expenditure of lives and money in a futile war, such as the one in Vietnam. 
The historical attitude of our society to criminal behaviour has been like the attitude to sin - that such behaviour follows the exercise of free will and that, like sin, due retribution, if not eternal retribution, must follow. Nowadays there is an increasing realisation that there are determinants of human behaviour, normal or abnormal, other than free will. One of the most moving experiences  1  have ever had was to visit the graveyard of the old penal settlement at Norfolk Island. Here was the sorry record of our so-called civilisation, not much more than a century ago. It is a chilling experience, on that beautiful landscape, to look at the headstones of those wretched men, the so-called incorrigible criminals, men who had been brutalised by savage repression, deprivation and physical hardship. Yet the headstones gave testimony to how these wretched creatures had strayed from the path of righteousness and had entreated their Creator to grant them forgiveness. My reaction was that the wickedness lay not in these captives but in their captors, the prison governors, with one honourable exception, and the masters of the whole system which oppressed them. Doubtless the captors and tormentors, such as the succession of prison governors, regarded themselves as good Christians. 
This attitude that criminal behaviour must be met by retribution is dying a death which is, sadly, rather a slow one.  1  see that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has a question on notice about a reverend gentleman calling for the retention of the death penalty as the divinely imposed sanction. Last year we had the experience of a well known politician calling for severe penalties for people who take drugs. Evidently if you are addicted to drugs this is not in itself punishment enough; you must be punished further, and severely. I wonder what penalties this politician had in mind. Perhaps he was thinking of the thumb-screw. Incidentally, he reads the Bible on the train every morning. Notwithstanding the persistence of such attitudes there is an increasing awareness of the fact that there are factors other than free will which determine criminal behaviour. These are biological factors and factors in the individual's present and past environment. There is a school of thought which rejects entirely the concept of free will and takes a position of biological and historical determinism. Not that it matters, but my own view is that the concept of free will is rather nebulous. What does matter is that, from a practical viewpoint, we can do a great deal to prevent crime and other behavioural deviations by a study of their biological and environmental causes. The  7  governments of Australia - even the Country Party Government in Queensland, surprisingly - have acknowledged this fact. Hence this Bill, which is the child of an unusually harmonious Commonwealth and State relationship. 
The most spectacular discovery on the biological side of criminology in recent years has been that of the extra Y chromosome in some habitual criminals. It is early days yet to draw any firm conclusions, but findings so far suggest that the incidence of the XYY pattern is higher in criminals than in the non-criminal population. More research is necessary. This might be a fruitful line of research for the Institute of Criminology. Other avenues for advance may be in the area of endocrinology. The pituitary gland and the parathyroid glands have been implicated and the effect on human behaviour of a lowering of blood sugar, from excessive insulin and other causes, is well known. Drugs are an important cause of criminal behaviour. One can consider, for example, the effect of alcohol. Heroin addiction is a major cause, if not the greatest cause, of crime in some large United States cities as the addict resorts to desperate measures to obtain supplies. 
The real test of this Government and its successors will come from the environmental factors, because to act on the findings big money will have to be spent and big changes will have to be made, upsetting many vested interests. Great courage and determination will be necessary because radical change is not politically easy. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  referred to critical problems related to crime and he instanced increasing population and urbanisation. There is a substantial amount of empirical evidence to suggest that crime, and especially organised crime, is a phenomenon of big cities. All governments of Australia should ponder over this. Perhaps they have pondered already; but if they have, it has produced only some perfunctory talk about decentralisation and not much action. Commonwealth and State governments really must get together and solve the problems of over-large cities. I would like to dwell briefly on this problem, because if governments do not come to grips with it as a matter of urgency we may eventually face the reality of Australian cities with populations of 10 million and over, with appalling rates of crime, drug taking and other social problems. 
One year ago when I made my first speech in this Parliament I advocated a joint Commonwealth and State venture to deal with modern urban development, as no single State has the resources to deal with the problem. At that time I was speaking about traffic problems. If this suggestion cannot be adopted for the sake of transport, then perhaps Commonwealth and States could come together and tackle urban problems in the name of crime prevention. This very Bill shows that cooperative federalism, a policy first espoused by the present Premier of South Australia, Don Dunstan, can be achieved. If it can be achieved in the field of an institute of criminology surely it can be achieved to implement the findings of that institute. The Commonwealth could lead the way through an expanded Department of the Interior, utilising the experience of the National Capital Development Commission, which has had a spectacular success in the development of Canberra. 
That is right. I refer how to another problem which is evident in the United States. It is not realistic to say that everything that applies in the United States is applicable here, but we must take what we can and learn what we can from the experience of cities in the United States. Another problem that has been evident is that the incidence of crime is very high in inner urban areas, especially among disadvantaged racial and national groups. We must focus our efforts on that severely disadvantaged minority in Australia, our 
Aboriginals. If we are to prevent crime on a United States scale from occurring amongst the original Australians, we must make an all out effort to help them to achieve a stake in the system the same as the white man. Although we do not have anything like the problem in the United States of America, there is enough to make us sit up and take notice. The Aboriginal population in my State of South Australia represents 1 per cent of the total State population. Yet 24 per cent of admissions to Yatala prison last year were Aboriginals. The solutions are not easy. The Premier of South Australia, Don Dunstan, for a long time has been a champion of the cause of the Aboriginals. South Australia has led the way in providing Aboriginals with land rights, and in the passage of legislation prohibiting discrimination. I hope that the Institute of Criminology will give a great deal of attention to the problems of this under-privileged group. I have no doubt that a programme of massive Commonwealth aid will be needed to afford all Aboriginals absolute equality with everyone else. 
Some interesting recommendations have emerged from the United States National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. There is some discussion in the Commission's report on the role of local government. The view is expressed that local government has an important role to play in that in its relatively small area it is the best agency to determine policies and develop programmes responsive to community needs. I believe that there is a great potential for local government here. But, in South Australia at least, it is only a potential. I have already mentioned the unduly high proportion of Aboriginal prisoners. A special problem exists within the city of Adelaide itself. Yet the Adelaide City Council has never provided a single social amenity for young people in its area. Unfortunately, local government in South Australia is elected on a property franchise, and the elected councillors consequently are concerned only with the defence and interests of property. I hope that the South Australian Labor Government will be successful in its current efforts to introduce adult franchise and that a council will be elected to serve the interests of people rather than of property. 
The Attorney-General referred also to the problems of rising population in that it has become recognised as having a casual relationship with rising crime rates. At first blush it would appear absurd that Australia could be over-populated in the foreseeable future. However, it is not just a question of looking at the size of Australia on the map and counting the number of people. The problem is, of course, complicated by the fact that most of the population is concentrated in a few cities. Again, we come to the question of urban development. Because in the last 20-odd years we have been supplementing our natural population increase by immigration the expansion of the cities has been accelerated. I think that the Government will have to look seriously at whether our immigration quota is too large to allow our urban development programmes to adapt to the rapid population increase, although, as the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has mentioned, the incidence of crime amongst migrants is much lower than in the Australian born population. Related to the population increase is the problem of overcrowding. Apart from population itself within a city, there does appear to be a problem of population density. High crime rates appear to occur particularly in overcrowded areas. We now have evidence of this from a study conducted in Sydney. Honourable members probably have seen that study. This is something that must be borne in mind when considering high density development in cities as part of a programme of slum clearance. The cure may sometimes be worse than the disease. 
I have not discussed the problems of prison reform, of the alterations to modernise the police force, or of law enforcement. These are very important matters. But I have deliberately confined my remarks to what I believe are some of the basic causes underlying deviant human behaviour. I hope that these factors will receive a high priority in the deliberations of the Institute of Criminology. We must aim at prevention. The present AttorneyGeneral is ever-ready, as we know, to refer to the need for law and order. I suggest that the next time he uses the term he ponders whether the 2 words really belong together. In a sense the terms 'law' and order* are incompatible, because the only way to ensure order is to have a system where order prevails by public consent. For order to prevail, we must have a system which all citizens have a vested interest in maintaining. If some do not have a stake in the system, the situation will arise where the law must be invoked. And if the law has to be invoked, this is not order but repression, which in turn invites large scale disorder. 
The success or failure of this Bill and of the Institute of Criminology will probably depend on the attitude of the Institute's political masters through their appointees to the Board. It is not therefore possible to predict the outcome. The proof of the pudding will be in the eating. I must admit to some apprehension following the public order measure introduced in the Parliament last night and the law and order legislation recently enacted by the New South Wales Government. If you set out merely to find a more efficient means of defending the status quo, you will fail. If, on the other hand, you set out to achieve a just society, there is a chance of success. 
Finally, I would like to refer to the final recommendation of the recent United States National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. The Commission stated: 
An improved criminal-justice system is required to contain the growth of violent crime, but only progress towards urban reconstruction can reduce the strength of the crime-causing forces in the inner city and thus reverse the direction of present crime trends. 
I want to raise a matter which ought to be of concern to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden).  I advised him that I was going to raise a matter of concern to him. I rather regret that he has not come into the House but I hope he will do so shortly. The matter I want to raise is of the utmost importance concerning the vehicle building industry and especially the Chrysler Aust. Ltd plant at Lonsdale in my electorate. It is apparent that the motor companies have taken a decision to use strong arm tactics against their own employees, regardless of the consequences, not only to the employees and their families but also to the motoring public. No doubt the House is aware of the reports which appeared in yesterday's Press that the 2 major car companies in South Australia - General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and the Chrysler company - have adopted a get tough policy with trade unions ki recent disputes. The immediate problem began with the reduction of a bonus payment to an inspector employed at the engine plant at Chryslers,. Lonsdale. Apparently the company stated that the reason for the dismissal was that it was dissatisfied with the attitude and performance of that particular employee over the last year. The employee was apparently taken by surprise as were the other inspectors as this man had not been given any warning or reprimand over the last year. 
In support of their fellow worker 11 inspectors notified the company the next morning that they were not prepared to fill out the company inspection sheets although they did say that they would continue to inspect. Within 3 hours all 11 inspectors were individually dismissed. Subsequently the company announced that it was not prepared to reinstate the men as inspectors as in future the work was to be carried out by people on a different classification. The company said that the men could apply for work in a month's time when they could be re-employed but, if so, it would be in a different classification. Furthermore the Chrysler company warned the executive of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia - one of the two unions involved - that if it endorsed a ban on their work it would stand down sections of the Lonsdale plant and other lay offs would take place at the plant at Tonsley Park. One could be pardoned for being highly suspicious of this action on the part of the company. A man is dismissed for spurious reasons, clearly an act of provocation. Eleven men are then dismissed and by a curious coincidence the company announced that the inspectors' work is to be discontinued anyway. The company, to enforce its claims, has intimidated the workers by a threat of what amounts to a lock-out. 
Now that these men are out of work and the company is applying its stand over tactics an extremely serious situation has arisen. I have been informed that on Tuesday of this week a fault in some steering knuckles was missed. In the morning shift SOO cracked steering knuckles escaped detection because they were not inspected. They were not discovered until the afternoon shift on which some inspectors are still working. It may be argued that this does not matter because the defects were eventually detected. But the important point is that in the normal course of events the faults would have been detected earlier. If the steering knuckles had been inspected earlier they would have been discovered. In fact, if any inspector had been there and actually missed the defects no doubt he would have been dismissed. This situation came about after the company made public statements last week that the vehicles were being adequately inspected. 
It is all very well for the Minister for Labour and National Service to complain about the activities of militant unions as he has done in recent months but the unions concerned are extremely worried about the future of the industry. The manufacturers plan to reduce the. frequency of altering their vehicle designs from 2- yearly to 5-yearly. This has already resulted in the retrenchment of 65 pattern makers by General Motors-Holden's. All the employees feel that the writing is on the wall and that the companies are seizing the opportunity to show their muscle. 
The unions served a log of claims on the companies last December which included the matter of severance pay. With the lay offs at General Motors-Holden's the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation and the Amalgamated Engineering Union have sought to have the matter brought on as a matter of urgency. But the companies are stalling for time. A conciliator has been appointed but the company has refused to submit any proposals for consideration. The matter has now been set down for arbitration but there appears to be no sense of urgency - on the part of the Government. The Vehicle Builders Employees Federation Federal Council met in Adelaide this week. The Minister should know that a resolution was passed condemning the Federal Government for the lack of sufficient people on the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission to deal with urgent cases such as these as quickly as it should. Lately all the Minister has done is to bleat about what he regards as excessive wage rises. I would have thought that the principal role of the Minister of Labour and National Service and the Government would be to safeguard the security of every wage and salary earner. I ask the Minister to do everything he can to expedite the discussions on severance pay. I think he should also consider as a matter of the utmost urgency the propriety and legality of the stand over tactics employed by these predatory companies. The matter of the safety of motor vehicles corning off the assembly line should be enough to shake the Government from its torpor. But if that is not enough, men are out of work and job security is under threat. That ought to be enough to goad the Minister into action. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and concerns the Commonwealth payment to wool growers under the emergency assistance plan involving approximately $30m. Is it a fact that many people whose wool income has dropped solely by virtue of switching from wool production to beef production and thereby suffering no loss of total income have received the full SI, 5 00 Commonwealth payment under the emergency assistance scheme for wool growers? If so, is this in accord with the intention of the Government. 
r rise to support the amendment moved, by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Firstly, I would like to refer to one rather remarkable part of the speech made by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  He arrived at the', somewhat remarkable figure of $5 as the value of fringe benefits. I do not know how he arrived at this figure. He did not break it down into various components. He did not mention how that was made up. Let us have a look at the medical services for a start. Surely, if the pensioner patients were not receiving the medical benefits, those without any other means of support would have to be treated as public or  charity patients. So the virtual gain to the pensioner in actual money value of the pensioner medical service is zero. The other point is in relation to travel concessions. They are not met by the Commonwealth Government. They are left as the responsibility of the State governments. 
The Opposition does not want to oppose the rise in pensions of 50c a week, miserable as it might be, but the Opposition does condemn the Government for the present situation in which people on fixed incomes now find themselves. This situation has been brought about by the Government's total lack of coherent planning or policy in social welfare matters, combined with a complete lack of responsibility in its decisions affecting the Australian economy. It is scarcely necessary to point this out to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  From his second reading speech last  night it was quite clear that he was well aware of the vulnerability of the Government on this matter. He knew that the Government is bankrupt in this area of policy, so he chose firstly to evade the vital issues when trying to justify the Government's record and, secondly, to make his rather irrational, inaccurate and intemperate attack upon the Australian Labor Party. He said that the inadequacy of the pension was the fault of the ALP. The Minister knows in his own heart that the Government's record is pitiful, but he is not to be pitied because any pity that can be spared must go to the pensioners who have been . told that somehow they must eke out a living on  $16  of today's depreciated currency. 
The Minister sought to justify the Government's record by comparing the pension rise with the rise in the consumer price index. Surely this is a fraudulent comparison. He knows perfectly well that the more relevant parameter in this day and age is the average weekly earnings. Why did he not refer to the relationship with average weekly earnings? I know he cannot claim that he has not heard of this parameter because he did not hesitate to talk about it later in his speech when he was comparing average weekly earnings with award wages. Yet, when he discussed the rate of pension increase in recent years, he carefully avoided the subject of average weekly earnings. He related the rate of pension increase to the consumer price index only. It is not difficult to see why the Minister did this. He must know that in a number of countries it is the practice to increase the value of the pension so as to maintain its relationship with average weekly earnings. If we look at the situation in Australia we find that the relationship of the pension to average weekly earnings is decreasing and that the level of the basic pension is dropping relative to the level of average weekly earnings. 
Much play has been made by Government speakers about the relationship of the pension to the consumer price index. However, let us have a look at the relationship of the pension to average weekly earnings from the time of the previous Labor Government. We find that in 1946, when there was a Labor government in power, the base pension was 25.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. For most of the mid- 1950s the level was maintained at something like 22i per cent. The low level of 18.8 per cent has now been reached. To what level will it descend? No wonder the Minister did not want to refer to average weekly earnings. As a comparison he used the consumer price index. Such a comparison is outdated. 1 ask the Minister to indicate, when he makes his concluding remarks on the second reading debate, whether the value of rent is included in his consumer price index figures. 
If the Government did adopt the average weekly earnings as a criterion, this in itself would not be sufficient. In this connection I would agree partly with the remarks made by the honourable member for Boothby, because the adjustments relative to average weekly earnings are relevant only when alterations to the pension are being considered. Therefore, it is of no value to consider the absolute value of what the pension should be. We should go further and use objective criteria of the requirements of pensioners if they are to enjoy the standard of living to which they are entitled and which the Australian community expects. What kind of living should be an acceptable standard for pensioners? 
The previous Prime Minister, the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  stated that the standard should be what he called one of frugal comfort. Accepting this as a yardstick - and the Australian Labor Party certainly does not - there is no evidence that the Government has ever bothered to find out whether this standard can be achieved by the present deal which the pensioners are getting. It has been left to bodies outside the Government. 
Even the Minister for Social Services would be aware of the recent study of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic Research. This carefully planned study was carried out in the light of estimates of needs in food, clothing, housing and so on. Estimates of food requirements were taken on the assumption that the income available was used to the best advantage - in other words, that the most economical use was made of the money available for the provision of adequate protein, calories, vitamins and so on. The findings included the rather staggering estimate that 15.2 per cent of aged persons in Melbourne are living below the poverty line and a further 10.6 per cent are living in marginal poverty. These figures are in relation to aged persons, but the study also indicated many other areas of poverty. 
Has the Government given any thought to evaluating the incidence of poverty and how to meet it? If it has the Minister for Social Services certainly has not betrayed this fact. The most abhorrent feature of the Government's attitude is that it is using the hapless pensioners as a weapon to combat inflation. I pointed this out in the Budget debate last year and this criticism is still valid. Pensioners are already the hardest hit by inflation. However, instead of compensating them for this fact, the Government has compounded the inequity by minimising the pension to try to protect everybody else from inflation. The Government has since made some perfunctory attempts to counter inflation but, having failed, it is still not prepared to protect the most vulnerable group in the community from its effects. 
A major reason why the Government has found itself floundering in the field of social services is the utterly irresponsible Budget which was brought down last August. I refer in particular to the so- called relief in income tax. The chickens have really come home to roost here. Nobody argued about the need for a restructuring of the income tax scale - that is, the relative incidence - but the reduction in income tax which was introduced was totally irresponsible and indefensible. Giving the greatest relief to people in the higher income groups, the measure was in itself regressive. To make up some of the lost revenue other regressive sales taxes were introduced. This action was a further penalty on pensioners and other people on low incomes or with large families. Having done this, the Government decided that it could not afford to pay anything more than a pittance to the pensioners. It should be noted in passing that this is one of the reasons why the States have been left out in the cold and have had themselves to impose regressive taxes. 
The Government's whole system of priorities is completely chaotic. Another example of this fact was brought to my attention today. While pensioners will be receiving an additional Si a week above the pre-Budget level some wool growers are receiving a payment of $1,500 a year although, as has been alleged, some of these wool growers have not suffered any loss of income because they have made up their income by diversifying, from wool into beef. I questioned the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on this aspect today but he chose to evade my question. What sort of system is in operation when a wool grower can get nearly $30 a week but a pensioner can get only an additional $1 a week? How can the Government in conscience justify this disparity? 
I wish to deal now with that section of the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services in which he chose io blame the Australian Labor Party for the whole problem.  His  reasoning appears to be that pension increases are necessary because of rising prices, that  rising prices are due to excessive wage demands and that somehow this is the fault of the Labor Party. Anyone would think from listening to the remarks of the Minister that the Australian Labor Party has been in government for the last 22 years rather than the Liberal-Country Party coalition.. The fact is that the Australian economy is the responsibility of the Government. If excessive price increases have occurred it is the fault of the Government and nobody else. It is certainly the Government's fault in this case in that it has refused to take any action to control prices. There is now a wealth of evidence to show that the cost pu.sh is not a major cause of inflation. There is a whole plethora of papers by Professor Pitchford, Professor Hancock and others which amply demonstrate this fact. On what grounds does the Minister claim that wage earners are causing inflation by negotiating for over award payments? What does the Minister have to say about excessive price increases? What arc his views, for example, about the recent announcement of a 15 per cent price increase by the already highly profitable Carlton and United Breweries Ltd? What does the Minister have to say about people whose incomes are below the average weekly earnings? 1 would like to quote a statement by Professor Downing on this matter. He said:  in these circumstances of what is happening to the  salarial,  to the professions, to civil servants, to employers, and to the mineral exploiters, it may rather be thought surprising that the Arbitration Commission, the ACTU, the unions and the workers have been so moderate. They certainly cannot be expected to lie down under a charge that they are leading any acceleration of inflation. 
In the light of that statement it is difficult to make any sense of what the Minister has said. Again, what has the Government done about the excessive tariff protection which is protecting industries to such an extent that excessive prices and profits are so commonplace? What positive measures have been taken by the Government to control prices? The only positive move has been by the Australian Council of Trade Unions when it struck a blow for the consumers in acting against resale price maintenance. The Minister has been quick to condemn the. wage earner, but what has he said about the perks enjoyed by people in the upper income groups - for example, tax free expense accounts? lt is high time the Government took a good look at carving up the national cake a bit more equitably. Instead of doing this it is heaping inequity upon inequity. An example of this is the tax allowance for dependants. The greater the income received the greater the reduction in the tax payable. The Government seems to have no sense of social justice at all. It has always been content to argue that the best way to increase the size of everyone's share of the national cake is to make the cake larger. While conceding that this argument has some force, I think the time has come to take a further look at this policy because it is now apparent that if this is all the Government is prepared to do - it is not even doing that well - the gap between the haves and the have nots will widen. Thus we must make the redistribution of income a primary objective. I am fully aware that this may mean a reduction in capital formation for investment and that this may mean a slowing down in the economic growth, but I believe that this is a price which the community must be prepared to pay. The Government is not prepared to consider the pensioners and other needy citizens and that is why it stands condemned. The Liberal-Country Party edifice will crumble at the next election like a house of dominoes, which is the fate it very richly deserves. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members or the House of Representatives in the Federal Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for pet foods and other purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that the export of all kangaroo products, including pet foods and furs, be banned immediately. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I would like to say first of all that the Opposition is not suggesting that the primary evil is the ordinances themselves. The main point is that we have reached, an untidy and unsatisfactory mess in regard to Canberra leaseholds, and these ordinances are not the satisfactory answer to the problem. This problem is not the doing of the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  It is a mess which he inherited from previous administrations. But the Opposition is critical of the way the Government has gone about trying to get itself out of the mess. Everybody agrees that the situation has become impossible and that something has to be done. But the Government has gone about it in the wrong way. The trouble over recent years has arisen because the spirit of the original Act, the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, has become weakened. The Opposition's view is that we must return to the spirit of the Act as it was intended by Canberra's farsighted founding fathers. 
We do :not suggest disallowance of the ordinances just so that we can go back to the situation n operating until last year. We want the whole matter referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory so that ways can be devised to return to the administration of the Act as was originally intended. The present measure should be rejected by the House, not because it fails to rectify the anomalies but because it is entrenching the situation which has arisen over recent years. It is true that there are certain improvements associated with the ordinances. There will be a 3-yearly reassessment as opposed to 20 years before. There is to be a 50 per cent betterment levy in respect of change of purpose of land use. The Minister seems to be content to hide behind these 2 improvements of the situation and say: 'This is the best we can do The Opposition rejects this. We say that an overall reform can be and must be carried out. 
What the Opposition desires is a return to the original intentions of the Act, which are that all land should be the property of all the people, that the Government should receive an annual rental for the use of this land, that no unearned increment should accrue to any private individual and that a man building a house or any other premises should not be required to make any capital outlay on his land, so that all his savings and borrowings can be invested in improvements. This ideal had disappeared. The Minister has defended the Government's action by saying that the leasehold principle is retained. But it is only leasehold in name, because unearned increment has accrued and will continue to accrue to the individual land holder. This is really the only important distinction between leasehold and freehold. What we have really got is a de facto freehold system. 
Unearned increment has accrued to private individuals because of the infrequent reassessment of land values. Because reassessment has taken place only at 20-year intervals individuals have been able to capitalise on the rent that they have not paid. But even if land values had been reassessed more frequently it is still highly likely that some capitalisation would be possible. This is because an annual rental of 5 per cent of the unimproved capital value is insufficient, being less than the true site rental. For this reason the system of reserve prices, which is being entrenched under these measures, will still allow capitalisation to accrue. This is because the reserve prices currently being set for land auctions are roughly of the same order as 20 years annual rental under the old system. It is likely, as the Minister suggests, that in some instances there will be a substantial profit to the Crown. But surely this is a very haphazard way of doing things. 
Some proponents of this measure, including Professor Arndt who was referred to by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  applaud this system of reserve prices as they say it exacts the annual rental in advance. But the reserve price takes only about 20 years annual rental. The lease itself is for 99 years. So from year 21 to year 99 the Commonwealth receives exactly nothing for the use of the land. The Commonwealth is prepared to incur a long term loss in return for a short term gain. That long term loss to the Commonwealth means a long term gain to someone else. In other words, unearned increment will accrue to the so-called leaseholder. What this means is that the Government has betrayed its trusteeship of the people's land. It will entrench the system which has arisen in recent years of the paying of premiums for leases sold at auction, a system which should never have developed. 
What the Opposition desires is a return lenge the Government to say how the premiums on the reserve prices can be reconciled with the original Act. The only defence I have read of key money, whether it be called a premium or reserve price, is by Professor Arndt who suggests that the only satisfactory method of apportioning land is by use of the price mechanism because, he says, the only alternative is rationing of land and that would bring about bureaucratic methods. However, there is an alternative and that is to release more land. I will say more about that in a moment. What does the price mechanism mean, if we are going to have a price mechanism? It means that the little man is squeezed out. The Government is not prepared to say this. Perhaps this philosophy is acceptable in Liberal anil Country Party circles but it is not acceptable in Opposition circles. If the Government thinks the position is as I say it ought to. have the courage to come out and say so. 
What the Opposition seeks is the payment of a true site rental - in other words, the amount of annual rental which is necessary to prevent any capitalisation from accruing. What we seek is the auction of land not for a capital sum but for so much rental per week, at a level of the true site rental and payable in perpetuity. Reassessment of land values should take place at frequent intervals. I come now to the question of the availability of land, because this is the fundamental matter behind the current mess in which the Government finds itself. The actual value of the land is not really a function of the type of tenure or rating at ail. It is really a question of supply and demand. It has been suggested that, with the rapid development of Canberra, if there is not to be rationing the only way of allocating land is through the price mechanism. But there is an alternative, and that is to make adequate land available. 
The obnoxious system of premiums came in in the first place only because insufficient land was released to cope with the demand. This is precisely the same reason as that which caused land prices to escalate in Perth under the previous State Liberal administration. 1 cannot see why such a situation should have been allowed to develop in Canberra. There must be an adequate supply of land, otherwise even a true site rental could be an imposition on the little man. The Minister claims that a true site rental would reduce incentive to invest in Canberra. This would not be so if adequate land were released. It might be argued that releasing this land would put an inflationary demand upon the building industry. I believe that any such inflationary stimulus would be less than in any other capital city. This is because in the A.C.T. there is an abundance of available land, whereas in Sydney, for example, good land is scarce. 
So in Canberra there might be an inflationary demand on the building industry whereas in Sydney there would be not only a corresponding demand on the building industry but also an inflationary demand for good land. The Government should not hesitate to release adequate land in the A.C.T. for building, because Canberra's orderly development is such that it can go on expanding without creating the urban maldevelopment of other capital cities. With the network of urban entities connected by adequate transport corridors, expansion of Canberra can do no harm. It is better to have more Woden Valleys, more Tuggeranongs and more Belconnens than to have more Green Valleys. 
Adequate land must be made available, and lots must be auctioned for a true site rental. This still leaves the problems of the existing leaseholders, and this is where the Minister for the Interior claims that he cannot do anything about it because of the contractual arrangements under the existing leases. This is a complicated problem, but it does not justify the Government's action of taking the easy way out. The Govern ment's action, which was really taken out of expediency, must be rejected, not to revert to the status quo ante, but to refer the matter to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. It is possible that the Minister feels that the Joint Committee would be unable to resolve the impasse other than by the way he has chosen, but I would not agree. lt is not my job to come up with the answers, but to show that a better solution is possible I would like to throw in a few thoughts of my own. In the case of leases more recently acquired, the leaseholder mayhave paid a high premium to the Crown in expectation of there being no reassessment for 20 years. I know that the Minister feels that if the true site rental were imposed on these people the Government would be in a legally untenable position. If this were so, these leaseholders could be indemnified against any reasonable penalty they have paid by way of a premium. Assume, for example, that a lease was obtained in 1965 by a premium payment. This leasholder would have benefited for 6 years by the fixed land value. The value of the 6 years true site rental could be subtracted from the premium paid, and the balance would be the capital expectation of the low rent for the next 14 years. He then is indemnified against the 14 years true site rental according to how much the premium would offset the 14 years rent. In other words, a differential rate could be struck by a fairly simple formula. In addition, a betterment levy could be imposed on capital gain for the sale of land. This ordinance in fact does provide for a 50 per cent betterment levy where there is a change of purpose. Why not have a betterment levy for any capital gain, whether the purpose of land use is changed or not? 
I have mentioned indemnifying the leaseholder when the Crown has received a premium. What about the case when the lease has already been transferred, to the profit of the original lessee? Here the Crown has lost the unearned increment. In such a case it would be hard to justify the concession to the new lessee, but perhaps some compromise might be necessary here. Another measure which might be considered is that leases can be saleable only to the Crown. This would at least speed up the tidying up process that needed to be done. 
I put forward these proposals as practical alternatives. I do not know whether the Minister and his Department have thought of alternatives, but it appears to me that the Government has no sense of obligation towards the great ideals embodied in the 1910 Act. We should not be seeking to bring Canberra down to the level of the other capital cities; we should be restoring the principle of community-owned land in Canberra and trying to bring the other capitals into line with that. One of the major problems in our cities is the fact that land is privately owned; that the increased value of land is being siphoned off to the speculator instead of going to the whole community, to whom it rightly belongs. Reform in Canberra should be only the beginning. We should then look at the State capitals. The Commonwealth and the States should set up funds to acquire land to promote proper urban development and to provide cheap land to the individual home builder. Let us reject this measure and review the whole broad issue. 
Some 3 weeks ago I spoke in the Grievance Day debate about events leading up to and following the dismissal of 11 inspectors at the Chrysler Australia Ltd plant at Lonsdale in my electorate. At that time I raised two matters. One related to the aggressive attitude of Australian car manufacturing companies towards the unions, and the other to the question of safety following the precipitate dismissal of the inspectors. I should like to discuss some of the events which have taken place since that time. 
It had come to my attention that some cracks were detected in a batch of steering knuckles at the plant one day during that week when I addressed the House on this matter. To me this raised two important questions: Firstly, was it possible that the parts could have reached the roads? Secondly, have safety standards and quality control been compromised in these or other vehicle components? The following day I was invited to visit the plant, which I did on Saturday, 20th March. I was given a detailed account of quality control measures and I inspected the plant and laboratories. I found the supervision of the operations with regard to safety impressive. As for the parts in question, that is, the steering knuckles, these parts are inspected by a magna-flux operation which effectively detects cracks. It must be pointed out that this is not a random testing; it is performed on all of these components. Furthermore, there are other quality control measures later in the process. 
Subsequently I discussed this with two professional engineers, whom I shall mention again shortly. They were able to confirm the impressions I had gained from my own visit to the Chrysler plant. I am very happy to say that there does not appear to be any way in which these or any cracked steering knuckles could have reached the road without detection. To confirm my own findings on this and to obtain an expert opinion on the general safety measures, the representatives of Chrysler Australia Ltd and I agreed to consult Professor Davis of the Department of Mechanical Engineering of the University of Adelaide. Professor Davis was asked: 
to conduct an investigation into the quality control procedures used by Chrysler Australia Ltd to control steering knuckle manufacture on Tuesday, March 16th, 1971. 
That was the day in question. The terms of reference continued: 
to report on the adequacy with which these procedures ensure the maintenance of safety standards on steering knuckles and other safety items as listed: tie rod ends, upper and" lower ball joints and depth of case hardening of knuckles. 
Discuss report with  Dr R.  T. Cun and Chrysler Australia Ltd's representatives and answer pertinent questions. 
Professor Davis agreed to do this and, in company with  Mr W.  D. Dobie, also of the Mechanical Engineering Department of the University of Adelaide, inspected the plant and laboratories. AH work sheets were laid open for scrutiny. I should like publicly to express my appreciation to Professor Davis and  Mr Dobie  who have made  a  report. I should like to read some of the salient points from the report. I have consulted the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who is now at the table who has agreed to the incorporation in Hansard of 5 paragraphs of the report. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate those paragraphs in Hansard. 
This organisation, Chrysler Australia Ltd, employs qualified engineers who have developed and instituted a system of Quality Control and Safety Assurance for automative 'safety' components which meets all technical requirements. The system has been evolved to provide production process stability in order to reduce to a minimum the rejection of 'safety' components which do not meet specification in dimensions, material quality metallurgical condition, and freedom from internal or surface defects. The system is adequately supported by inspectors and technical staff and involves the use of well prepared instruction sheets, record files and component identification and tagging. - 
The regular inspection and testing procedures, equipment and facilities are adequate to ensure defects being detected by cut-up sampling in the case of internal defects and by non-destructive 100 per cent inspection for dimensional accuracy and surface cracking' on all finished 'safety' components, lt should he noted that small surface cracking on steering knuckles, resulting from quenching after induction hardening, can be machined om and the component subjected lo re-inspection for acceptance. 
The Quality Control of manufacture of components lo specifications in dimensions, surface finish, freedom from cracks, and metallurgical condition, is thus considered to be fully acceptable. In addition, N.A.T.A. approval of test certificate signatories m laboratories component and test sections is an assurance of competence of the personnel supervising the metrological. metallurgical and component testing activities of the organisation. 
The overall Safety Assurance for 'safety* components is covered at Chrysler Park by 
the continuous road testing programmes of complete vehicles and regular examinations of all components for wear and failure and 
the continuous fatigue and wear testing of sample of all 'safety' components, and 
the correlation of results of laboratory fatigue tests and of road tests, and the feedback of information to the design section. 
Any defects showing up in road or fatigue tests results in quarantining of parts or assembled vehicles until the defect is corrected or an improved design is fully proved by examination and performance tests. 
In particular the control of manufacture, inspection and testing of the Steering Knuckle and other 'safety' components to ensure the maintenance of quality to specifications, and the control of fatigue and wear and tests for safety, have been carefully scrutinised. These controls are considered to be effective in regard to the overall organisation by professional engineers of systems and procedures, selection of equipment for inspection and testing and selection and training of suitable staff in all the appropriate categories. 
In conclusion we wish to state that we have received complete co-operation from Chrysler engineering and technical staff in conducting this investigation. 
Professor Davis and  Mr Dobie  stated in the course of their report: 
This organisation, Chrysler Australia Ltd, employs qualified engineers who have developed and instituted a system of quality control and safety assurance for automotive 'safety' components which meets all technical requirements. 
The report continues: 
Hie regular inspection and testing procedures, equipment and facilities are adequate to ensure defects being detected by cut-up sampling in the case of internal defects and by non-destructive 100 per cent, inspection for dimensional accuracy and surface cracking on all finished 'safety' components. lt should be noted that small surface cracking on steering knuckles, resulting from quenching after induction hardening, can be machined out and the component subjected to reinspection for acceptance. 
The Quality Control of manufacture of components to specifications in dimensions. - surface finish, freedom from cracks, and metallurgical condition, is thus considered to be fully acceptable. In addition, NATA approval of test certificate signatories in laboratories component and test sections is an assurance of competence of the personnel supervising the meteorological, metallurgical and component testing activities of the organisation. 
In particular the control of manufacture, inspection and testing of the Steering Knuckle and other 'safety' components to ensure the maintenance of quality to specifications, and the control of fatigue and wear and tests for safety, have been carefully scrutinised. These controls are considered to bc effective in regard to the overall organisation by professional engineers of systems and procedures, selection of equipment for inspection and testing and selection and training of suitable staff in all the appropriate categories. 
In conclusion we wish lo state that we have received complete co-operation from Chrysler engineering and technical staff in conducting this investigation. 
H. DAVIS 
Professor of Mechanical Engineering 
D. DOBLE 
Senior Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering 
Finally, I had personal discussions with Professor Davis and  Mr Dobie  and ( was satisfied that the quality control is of a high order. I would add that  Mr Dobie  was asked whether in the circumstances he would be prepared to buy a Valiant - that is, considerations of price and other things aside - and he said yes. With this I agree. I think it is a matter of regret that the Government does not have an independent inspection system such as exists for the licensing of inspectors in the field of civil aviation. However, in this case I hasten to add that I do not regard the Chrysler standards as being in question. 
With regard to the industrial dispute, I regret that the situation has not been resolved satisfactorily. I am informed that some inspectors have been re-instated under a reclassification with reduced pay. These men have been- involved- in. an industrial dispute and 1 man had given an affidavit on a previous occasion supporting a claim that the company was guilty of a lock-out during February of this year. The fact that some of these men are on reduced pay does not strike me as being purely coincidental. 
In conclusion I point out that the Vehicle Builders Union still has not had its claim for severance pay heard by Commissioner Taylor. I believe this delay is intolerable although I do not cast any aspersions on the Commissioner himself. I believe the Government should heed the suggestion of the Vehicle Builders Union that a commissioner be assigned specifically and wholly to the vehicle building industry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Did the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  undertake during the 1969 election campaign to remove all discriminatory legislation against Aboriginals by 1972? Did the recent decision of the present Prime Minister and the PostmasterGeneral together with representatives of the Queensland Government provide for continuation of some of the restrictions on Aboriginals' control of their own property? Does this not therefore still amount to paternalism? Do these remaining restrictions exist in any other State or Territory? Finally, does the Minister now regard the election promise to abolish all discriminatory legislation as being fulfilled, or has there been a sell-out by the Commonwealth? 

 - Mr 

Chairman- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and refers to the Bill introduced yesterday to provide a loan of $33.5m to the Australian Wool Commission. How much has the Government already lent to the Australian Wool Commission to cover its operations? What is the full loan estimate for 1970-71? What are the terms of the loan? ls the Minister concerned that the Australian Wool Commission will have difficulty servicing the loan due to the fact that it has sold little wool from, its stockpile and is not, therefore, accumulating any revenue? 
With the indulgence of the Committee, [ wish to make some remarks of a fairly general nature that might perhaps have been delivered during the debate on the second reading of the Bill. I wish also to refer in passing to the statement made this afternoon by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I do not think any honourable member - certainly no honourable member on this side of the chamber -  would ever dispute the importance of tariff protection to Australia in building up secondary industries. It has had the virtues of allowing us to build up and sustain an industrial base in Australia and in the years since World War II to sustain a large inflow of migrants. However, I think we accept that tariff measures, subsidies and such like have certain side effects. There are different types of side effects, the most 
If one section of the community gains from a tariff, there may be another section - frequently there is - which loses because of that tariff. I take as an example a component manufacturer who benefits from a duty. The person who uses that component may be disadvantaged by that duty. The primary producer who sells on the open export market those of his products that are not subject to international commodity arrangements may be disadvantaged in respect of dutiable goods used on his farm. The housewife and the ordinary consumer may be disadvantaged to some extent by the imposition of a tariff. We must weigh these facts against the obvious advantages in the employment field, which arise from the tariff policy. In addition to the effect of tariffs on the redistribution of wealth in the economy, we must consider the effect of tariffs on the economy as a whole. 
This afternoon, the Minister for Trade and Industry did not make any specific reference to the economy as a whole. But I think that we may take it as read that the Government concedes that it is about time something was done about the rather poor performance economically of Australia in recent years. I refer here to the development of our gross national product, not that the only thing that we should try to achieve is an increase in our gross national product. But it is something that is fundamentally important. Australia has done pretty badly in this respect. It is obvious that it is time something was done about our gross national product. In the last report from the Tariff Board, for the year 1969-70, we saw evidence that the amount of total protection to industry in Australia is approximately $2,7 00m. While not all of this available protection is being used no doubt exists that a large amount of excess profit is being made and that excessive prices are being charged behind this wall of protection. 
I have no doubt that we accept that a need is present for certain changes in the direction of our tariff policy. For many years now many of the remnants of the Scullin tariff policy, which is very old indeed, have remained in force. In this policy are many items of anticipatory pro- 
Australia has suffered also over several years in respect of tariffs from the effects of the 'dead hand of McEwenism'. To judge from the speech made by the Minister for Trade and Industry this afternoon we now seem to have moved from the McEwen policy to no policy at all. Another important reason why we need to take another look at our tariff measures is the problem of inflation. No doubt exists in my mind that if we do not use our resources to the optimum we cannot possibly hope to control inflation. 
I wonder whether honourable members may have seen the article which appeared in the Press last week in which  Dr Sheehan  of the Australian National University compared the situation in the United States of America and the United Kingdom with the position in Western Germany. He pointed out that deflationary policies had been introduced in the United States and the United Kingdom. Not very much growth in productivity has occurred in those countries and, as is well known, prices have skyrocketed there. Western Germany, which has gone all out for maximum growth in productivity, has not suffered the same problem. What has happened is that West Germany has been able to accommodate wage increases by greater productivity. As a result of this policy, price increases in Western Germany have been minimal. Here is another reason why it is necessary for us to have another look at our tariff policy. 
I think that it is important to distinguish between the attitudes of the Opposition and of the Government, which would underlie any change that was to take place. It seems to me that the policy of the Government frequently is one of social Darwinism. The Government seems to be seeking some abstraction called 'economic growth', and that is all that matters. It is bad luck for those who are rejects from this system of improving our economic apparatus. Our policy is quite in contrast to this. We accept that nobody should be tection This policy imposed high protecdisadvantaged by any change which takes place in the economy in order to try to improve productivity and increase economic growth. Primarily we must accept that the purpose of altering any tariff policy is to help people. The people we are trying to help are the wage and salary earners in Australia. We take it as a sine qua non that nobody should be disadvantaged as a result of any Government measure which is taken. I note that last week the Government introduced a measure to provide payments of up to $46.20 for people who are subject to displacement due to technological change. I do not think the measure goes far enough. I do not think that any body who loses employment should suffer in any way. I believe that an employee should be compensated for any loss of wages.  His  weekly earnings should not drop at all. This could be covered mainly by his ex-employer who may be benefiting from some technological change which has resulted in somebody's displacement. If that happens the difference between the $46.20 paid by the Government - or whatever the amount is going to be - and the man's average normal weekly earnings should be made up by the employer. 
I think that everybody should have his re-education or adult education completely covered by the Government if he is going to be employed in a different sphere. In spite of this there are certain times when we cannot regard this problem entirely as an economic one. I think that sometimes when we consider alterations in our use of resources we must have regard to the social question. Several years ago the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  obtained considerable publicity when he was debating the question of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. He said that it would be more profitable to pay the employees of that company so much a year to stay at home and watch television. That is just one case which sticks in my mind. I do think that one has to consider the other side of the coin. For example, Tasmania, being a small island State, has always had great difficulty in building up its industry and maintaining its population. The town of Burnie is completely dependent on APPM. If that company went out of business the town of Burnie would just fold up. If that happened not only APPM but also the shopkeepers and other employees  in  that town would be affected. 
I want to speak for a couple of minutes about something that is not directly related to the appropriation in the Bill. As we are discussing the general subject of housing costs I want to raise a matter which affects housing costs and which raises a couple of other important issues. It relates to a report that came across my desk early this week. It is the 1968-69 report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. I must confess that I do not have a great deal of knowledge of or experience about this body. To be quite honest, in the 18 months I have been a member of this Parliament I have not yet had one constituent come to me about a matter relating to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. But I would appreciate it if the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  could give me a few straight answers on this annual report because there are a few figures and statements in it that intrigue me. 
The first thing is the revenue and expenditure statement. We see that the total revenue for the year, after allowing for transfers in respect of premium income applicable to future years, is $1,013,663. That is for one year. So the revenue from premiums applicable to this year is just over $lm. On the other hand, the expenditure is no less than $360,613. So this means that the administration costs of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation are in excess of one-third of the turnover of the Corporation in one year. Honourable members might recall that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has criticised the voluntary health insurance funds from time to time because their administration costs were of the order of IS per cent of their annual turnover, yet the administration costs of this Corporation are over 33 per cent of its turnover. 
How are these administration costs made up? Salaries for the year were $182,000, and rent and office services accounted for $33,681. Where on earth is all this money going? Now let us have a look at what the claims for the year were. They amounted to $21,441. So just over $21,000 was paid out in claims, $lm was collected in revenue and $360,000 was expended on administration costs. I do not suppose we can quibble. I know that we want to have a fairly prestigious Government corporation but, goodness me, it appears that this is just bureaucracy gone mad. I wonder whether the Minister could explain what is going on. It seems to me that here is a misappropriation of public funds. Let us consider what the activities have been. The last paragraph of the statement signed by the  Chairman  of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation states:   in view of the long term nature of the insurance risk and its relationship with the level of economic activity the Corporation believes that an adequate investment portfolio is needed. 
No wonder it is needed. If we look at the assets of the Corporation we find that its reserves total nearly $3m. This seems to be a completely disproportionate amount. Now it has been decided by the Corporation that it wants to begin investing the money in profitable ventures. That is all very well. Perhaps all of us who are given charge of anything want to build up an empire, but I have yet to see the parallel of what is happening with the Corporation. I take it that the Corporation's assets are to be invested so that they will yield more profits, and at the same time the people who are paying premiums to the Corporation, that is, the lenders, will be passing the increased cost on to the home builder. It seems to me that the person buying a home will be slugged so that the Corporation can build up into an extraordinarily large empire. 
I notice from the report under the heading 'Financial Results' that during the year the premium was reduced from 2 per cent to l.S per cent, but in spite of that the reserves have built up to the enormous amount of nearly $3m. What will be done with this amount? I should like the Minister to explain also what will happen with this big empire. Why is there this attempt to build it up? On the previous page of the report I notice this statement: 
During the year the United States Government established a statutory authority, the Government National Mortgage Association.  GNMA  will enable lenders for housing to raise new funds by the issue of guaranteed debentures, the guaranteed debentures to be issued on the security of mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration . . . Developments in this field will be watched with interest. 
I do not know whether this means that it is to become a lending institution. It appears to me that if we take a leaf out of the book of the United States organisation we will be lending the money to the usurers who will be making a profit from public funds lent to them. I regret having to enter into this debate and I know that my remarks are not related directly to the appropriation, but it seems that this is about the most relevant opportunity to raise this matter. I hope that in his reply the Minister will explain some of the cancerous growth of this organisation and let us know what is happening to public funds. I have a belief that the home buyer is being hit while bureaucrats are building up an empire for themselves. 
It was not my intention to enter this debate but this afternoon in question time a matter was raised relating to a very large item of defence expenditure. It was mentioned in a question addressed to the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  and concerned the naval base facility at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia. I hope that I am not misrepresenting the Minister but I am led to believe from his answer that the Public Works Committee made a' recommendation that the construction of the naval base at Cockburn Sound should go ahead, on the' basis that the damage which I  would be caused by the construction of the. facility to the ecology and the environment at Cockburn Sound was regarded by the Public Works Committee as being, not of great importance; that the Committee felt that there were no major ecological considerations or any question of damage to the environment there, and therefore the Public Works Committee felt, with a clear conscience, that it was quite in order to go ahead and recommended the' -expenditure for Cockburn Sound. 
The expenditure involved is very great and should be of importance _ to all honourable members. If the base goes ahead and is finally completed- as it looks as though it will be - about $80m will be spent. I would like to refer to the report of the Public Works Committee in which it recommends that the construction go ahead. 
May I speak to the point  of  order?  
 If I may speak to that point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think the honourable member for Angas might have a good point, but the House has never had any opportunity to discuss this important matter. The Government has never made a statement on the strategic necessity for its constructing a naval base on Cockburn Sound. Frankly, I am very doubtful whether there is a strategic necessity. We cannot discuss it. I tried to discuss this matter when we were debating the recommendation of the Public Works Committee on this matter last October. At that time the honourable member for Angas made it known to me that I had to cut my speech short, and it turned out that I had to cut my speech short so we could hear subsequently the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  give a 20-minute homily on  Sir John  McEwen so he could ingratiate himself with the Leader of the Country Party and thus tie up his succession to the leadership of that Party. 
asked, the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What is the area in square miles of (a) Victoria River Downs Station' and. (b) Wave Hill Station. 
How many smaller stations are grouped in each of these Stations. 
What is the annual rent payable in respect of each Station. 
Are the profits of each Station free of taxation? 
When does the lease of each Station expire. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount has the Government already lent to the Australian! Wool Commission to cover its operations, apart from the recent loan of 133.5m. 
What is the full loan estimate for 1970-71. 
What are the terms of the loan. 
what sum has been advanced to the Commission by the private trading banks, and on what terms was this money advanced. 
Will the Commission have difficulty in servicing the loan due to the fact that it has sold little wool from its stockpile and is not therefore accumulating any revenue. 
asked the Minister for Primary 
Industry, upon notice: 
What amount has the Government already lent to the Australian Wool Commission to cover its operations, apart from the recent loan of $33.5m. (2)What is the full loan estimate for 1970-71. 
What are the terms of the loan. 
What sum has been advanced to the Commission by the private trading banks, and on what terms was this money advanced. 
Will the Commission have difficulty in servicing the loan due to the fact that it has sold little wool from its stockpile and is not therefore accumulating any revenue. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that many people whose wool income has dropped solely by virtue of switching from wool production to beef production and thereby suffer no loss of total income have received the full $1,500 Commonwealth payment under the emergency assistance scheme for woolgrowers? 
If so, is this in accord with the intention of the Government? 
A great deal of blame has been cast upon the 2 countries, India and Pakistan, in the current dispute. In a most excellent m-inner the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has told the House where the blame properly should lie for initiating this dispute. There is no question that in East Pakistan live the majority of the population of the Pakistan nation. Ever since the partition of the Indian sub-continent in 1947 the people in East Pakistan have been subjected to economic exploitation. They have produced most of the wealth of Pakistan. They have produced most of the foreign exchange. But little of that foreign exchange has been spent on the eastern side in East Bengal. To reinforce the economic domination of East Bengal by West Pakistan, West Pakistan has extended its control by overwhelming dominance of the public service. As if this were not enough, it has had complete control of the armed forces. In fact up to the time shooting started in March less than 10 per cent of the Pakistani Army consisted of Bengalis. Elections were held throughout all Pakistan in December 1970. As the honourable member for Fremantle has told us, the Awami League was elected with a majority in the Pakistan National Assembly, but that National Assembly has never been convened. So following years of exploitation and the democratic election of a government, the Assembly was never convened. Then to make sure that the aspirations of the Bengali people could never be realised, there was an Army crackdown by West Pakistan on the hapless people of West Bengal. So I do not think there is any doubt as to the side on which one places the blame for initiating this dispute. 
I know it is true that there are areas of grey. It is probably true that the Mukt Fouj have been guilty of excesses against certain people, perhaps the non-Bengali minority in East Bengal. But that does not in any way detract from the fact that the dispute was Initiated by West Pakistan. To add to this recent insult is the trial of Sheik Mujibur Rahman which I hope all honourable members will agree is a gross outrage and a violation of natural justice. 
Having recently visited West Bengal myself, I had the opportunity to see the refugee situation at first hand. Today most honourable members have received a telegram from Community Aid Abroad. That telegram reads: 
Our OXFAM representative West Bengal reports 10,000 children will die in 3 weeks and general worsening refugee situation. Request you urge Australia makes substantial new aid grant. 
From my own experience there and from seeing many of the refugees in the camps, I have no doubt about the truth of that statement and the fact that the situation cannot but deteriorate. I am afraid that many of the children whom I saw at the time I was there are beyond any help. However much help is given for some, I am afraid that it is a little too late. However, we have to try to increase the aid which we will give, and I will come on to that matter shortly. But we must bear in mind that if all the aid in the world is given to the refugees, this still leaves another problem, and that concerns the people in West Bengal itself, the people who were there before the refugees arrived. This question is causing tremendous political friction between the refugees and the West Bengalis. The presence of a great number of additional men is flooding the labour market. Before the refugees arrived a West Bengali could go and offer his services as a rural labourer for about  2i  rupees a day. Now, because of the refugees offering their services, wages are approximately 1 rupee per day. So there is a downward pressure on wages and simultaneously there is an upward pressure on prices. This can only cause a tremendously explosive political situation. Another matter is that the refugees are given 1 rupee's worth of food every day. For how long will the people of West Bengal sit there quietly and watch this happening while they have to pay for their food? 
Then there is the tremendous physical overcrowding. In some of the areas I visited the population had trebled in about 6 weeks. So I think we must bear in mind that however much aid we give, if we give the absolute optimum, if we give everything we have, it still will not solve the basic problem of the friction between the refugees and the people of West Bengal. I asked many refugees whether they would ever return to East Pakistan. Most of those to whom I spoke said they would like to but that they could not do so in the present situation while the military was still there. Somehow the military must go. Having looked at the situation, I am reluctantly forced to the conclusion - and this is only a personal opinion - that the refugees will not return in any substantial number until there is an independent State in East Bengal, in other words, an independent Bangla Desh. However, I am not suggesting that the Australian Government should take a stand either way on this question. I do not think that we should call either for an independent Bangla Desh or necessarily for a reunification. I agree with the view expressed to me by the Indian Prime Minister, that this is a matter to be determined by the East Bengal people themselves. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has suggested that we have not made any constructive suggestions about what should be done. I thought that the honourable member for Fremantle made some very practical suggestions, and 1 would like to support them. The most important thing is that the aggregate aid we have given is pitifully small. It is now worth $1.5m. When I visited East Pakistan, the amount of foreign aid pledged to the Indian Government from various countries totalled $200m. At that stage we had given aid worth Sim, plus the aid which had been given through Austcare and other voluntary agencies. So we had given less than 1 per cent of the total amount of aid pledged. I would have thought that a country like Australia which has one of the highest living standards in the world and one of the highest per capita incomes in the world could have done a lot better than that. It is important that we must not lose sight of the situation. The aid has to continue, but I am afraid there is a great danger that when references to cholera are not reported on the front pages of our newspapers, people will forget all about the situation in East Pakistan. We must remember that for so long as the refugees are there the situation will continue. 1 think there are a few other practical things we could do. I should like to see the Australian Government take a particular responsibility for a specific geographical area within West Bengal. I think that one of the troubles in Australia is that a lot of people seem to think that because there are so many months to feed the situation is uncontrollable and that we cannot do anything about it. I think that if Australia took a responsibility for a specific area, Australians would see that there are problems within manageable proportions and that it would motivate us to try to provide continuous aid. I hope that the Government will give consideration to doing this. i visited an area in the northern part of West Bengal, m the Jalpaiguri district. I think that by accepting responsibility for this area we could quite easily help the 
16262/71- R-[9] 
Indian Government to overcome the situation. If we are lucky, perhaps other governments throughout the world might follow the lead, and then each could do its part in specific areas of West Bengal and the other Indian States that surround East Pakistan and thus help the Indian Government to overcome this massive problem. I would like to see us do the same sort of thing in East Pakistan. But I think that if we do that perhaps we should lay down certain conditions; perhaps we should insist on the presence in that country of our own personnel in order to see that the aid is disbursed to the right quarters. It might also have the effect of inhibiting the conflicting parties from shooting and killing each other. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  who visited India with me has not had an opportunity to speak in this debate. I do not want to embarrass him politically, but as he is the only member of this Parliament who has recently visited East Pakistan, I rather regret that he has not had an opportunity to speak in this debate. Incidentally, the honourable member for Holt has done a great deal more for the Indian sub-continent over a longer period of time than the Australian Government has done, and I believe that he deserves a great deal of credit for the aid programme which he has spearheaded for several years now. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs asked what we could do. I think there is something else we could do. I think that for many years we have been a very unswerving and rather unthinking ally of the United States of America. We must remember that the United States has been sending shipments of arms to Pakistan. We know for what purpose those arms shipments will be used. I should like to see us use our good offices to try to dissuade our American friends from sending any more arms shipments. I do not think it is any use at this stage the American Government wringing its hands about the friendship treaty between the Soviet Union and India. I think this was inevitable. From my own discussions there, it seems that the stocks of the United States are very low indeed in India. Frankly, I believe  Mrs Gandhi  when she said that there has been no fundamental realignment of India's foreign policy. i think the recent development was inevitable, and I do not think anyone should express any surprise about it. I think there is a lot we can do- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot, afford to hinder the edu cation of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education  expenses  and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfuly showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47) per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his statement last Wednesday that the decision to commit Australian forces to the aid of South Vietnam "was made in the national interest', pursuant to certain obligations. I ask: Is it still the Government's assessment that a military victory by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong would be contrary to Australia's national interest? At any time after the Australian troop withdrawal, if it appears that such a military victory is again likely, will Australian troops be sent back? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth public servants are chauffeurdriven to and from work each day throughout the Commonwealth? 
Can he state the annual cost of this service? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act. and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Department of Civil Aviation to allow aircraft larger than those already in use to use West Beach Airport. 
If so, which type of aircraft will use the airport, and when is it expected that they will commence using it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the estimated capital cost of establishing a new airport terminal north of Adelaide to replace the existing facility at West Beach. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Department of Civil Aviation to carry out extensions to the north-east/south-west runway at West Beach Airport 
If so, (a) when will the extensions be carried out, and (b) what is the estimated capital cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Civil Aviation advise the West Torrens City Council to re-zone certain areas adjacent to the West ' Beach Airport as industrial and commercial areas. - 
If so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil. Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation made any estimate of the capital gain which would accrue from the sale of the land at present occupied by. the West Beach Airport; if so, what is that figure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether metropolitan Adelaide has a shortage of open space for recreational purposes in comparison with other State capital cities. 
Is it a fact that an extension of the northeast/southwest runway at West Beach Airport in a south-west direction will cause a serious incursion into the West Beach Recreational Reserve, with loss of accommodation for several sporting clubs. 
Would an extension (a) involve a partial closure of Tapley's Hill Road (b) involve either filling in the Patawalonga or piping it under the runway, (c) require modification of the Patawalonga Drainage Scheme, (d) require the rebuilding of Military Road into a six- or eight-lane highway (e) result in more aircraft noise for the residents of North Glenelg and West Torrens and (f) require the acquisition of houses in North Glenelg to carry the new road across the Patawalonga 
If houses in North Glenelg would need to be acquired, how many houses would be affected and in which streets. 
What objective criteria does the Department of Civil Aviation use when weighing the loss of open space, property values and human comfort from aircraft noise against the needs of airlines and air travellers. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has given his views on a comparison between the Government's assessment of the economy and that of the Opposition. Very briefly I would like to give mine. The Government believes that we are in a cost-push inflationary situation and that certain indicators, notably the level of retail sales, indicate that we have a latent demand inflation. The Government believes that a reduction in Government spending with a Budget surplus will arrest inflation with only a moderate rise in unemployment which could be rectified, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said last night, with increased Government expenditure if too many people lose their jobs. The Opposition questions the existence of latent demand. We on this side are convinced that overseas experience shows that monetary and fiscal' measures such as those in this Budget will increase the rate of unemployment without halting price increases. We believe that even 100,000 unemployed is unacceptable and that a certain lag will occur even if you apply reflationary measures later, which means that you could still have a prolonged recession. 
We believe that these measures are especially inappropriate at this stage of the international monetary crisis. We believe that appropriate measures include a reduction in interest rates - which I believe would at this stage be deflationary - and improved trade practices legislation and Commonwealth prices control. It is absurd for the Minister to talk about relentless action and irresponsible unionists. It is not as if every wage earner, here and overseas, because inflation is a worldwide phenomenon, individually and suddenly, for no good reason, has decided to become aggressive. Human behaviour, and certainly human group behaviour, is not determined this way. Human behaviour is determined by the environment - the social, economic and physical environment. It is this which we must alter. You cannot alter human group behaviour, not in a democracy anyway. 
So it is futile for the Minister for Labour and National Service or the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to ask unionists, whether Liberal or Labor voters, to change their attitudes because this is not on. You must alter the climate in which those attitudes are formed. For the same reason I reject the proposition of Professor Downing made earlier this year that there should be a national consensus against inflation. You cannot alter human group attitudes. You must do something about the environment which determines those attitudes. The measures I would suggest are manifold but in the limited time I have available to me in this debate I shall speak of only one and that is that a prices commission or tribunal should be set up. It is quite possible that the High Court judgment in the concrete pipes case means that the Commonwealth has the power to control prices. Under these circumstances requests for price increases could be approved where it is established that a demand existed for labour or for any other input. If there were no such justification the price would stay down. 
At the same time I believe that pensions and award wages should be automatically adjusted according to rises in prices as well as productivity. Over award payments and other causes of earnings drift will still occur but in these circumstances they would not be at the expense of those on fixed incomes - I am sure that the wage earners do not want that - but at the expense of the profit earning sector, which the wage earners want and which I want and which I am sure the Opposition wants. The other great difference we have with the Government is that we do not regard government spending as being a necessary evil. Our view is that there should be more government spending and not less. We believe that much more needs to be spent on social welfare, Aboriginal welfare, education and other important fields. 
The main topic I want to discuss tonight is the wool industry because if ever there has been a national crisis it certainly has been in wool. The cause of this industry's problems is twofold. In the first place, there have been ominous signs over the last 12 months or a little longer in the way of falling prices that if we wish farmers to continue to sell wool to earn foreign exchange for Australia, the workers in the cities will have to pay for them to do so. But this problem has now been compounded by another more critical problem which must be overcome with desperate urgency and that is that the death of the' wool industry is an immediate threat and that the war against synthetics might be lost forever. I think that the wool industry can be saved but it will require immediate and courageous action by the Government. 
The Government has 3 major and costly programmes to assist the industry the Australian Wool Commission, the rural reconstruction scheme and the 36c per lb price support scheme. None of them as at present operating will benefit the industry in the long run. In some respects their purposes are running counter to each other and some of the schemes are being implemented in such a way as to push the industry over the edge of disaster quicker than it would go otherwise. The Australian Wool Commission is committing at least 3 critical errors. Firstly, it is dilly-dallying about whether or not it will continue to hold wool sales. Last week, noone knew from day to day whether the wool sales would continue. How on earth is a wool buyer in Australia going to accept an order from his European principal if he does not know whether or not the wool gales are to be held? The Commission did not make up its mind until last Friday night whether to continue sales this week. By then it was too late to take orders from Europe. In the event, I point out to the 
House that the Japanese bought as much woo] in the Adelaide sales last week as they buy in what is regarded as a busy week. It was orders from Europe which were down and if the Commission had not been so dilatory the results would have been much better from that quarter as well. For the same reason I believe it is quite spurious to ascribe the present situation to the international monetary crisis, although this could become a factor in the near future. 1 shall refer to this later. 
The second great error of the Commission is to withhold stocks from the auction. This is inviting defeat. The Commission is jeopardising its solvency by increasing its stockpile even before the auction begins. It is not hard to imagine the impact this will have on the ultimate price of the product and I am sure this point will not escape the attention of the wool buyers and manufacturers. Finally, the Commission is without doubt trying to force the market with a fixed reserve price. This is completely contrary to the spirit and letter of the Australian Wool Commission Act, section 18 (1) (a) of which states: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale  at  auction. . . . 
This is the purpose of it to conduct a flexible reserve price scheme to increase the amount of competition due to the reduced number of wool buyers in the auction room. It is not intended to be a fixed reserve price to try to force the price up. Why the Commission should try to do this I do not know. Perhaps the Government is intervening to keep the price up so as to minimise the payments under the 36c per lb scheme. If we are to subsidise the industry, surely a straight-out subsidy is better. It should not be done through the Commission because this will mean paying for storage costs as well as interest rates to the private usurers who are financing the Commission. What is the Commission trying to do? Is it trying to engage in a trade war with the Japanese? Nothing could be more foolish. If we force the Japanese to pay an uneconomic price for wool we run the risk of pricing them out of the United States textile market 
Yes, but the Commission will be running a very grave risk if it keeps trying to force the market along. Does the honourable member agree? 
Like it or not, if the Commission is successful in forcing the price above the normal market price, the Japanese will be paying a high price and we will run the risk of forcing them out of the market. If the Japanese are forced out of the United States textile market that will affect us. Whether we like it or not we are in it with the Japanese. We are partners with them and if the Japanese sink, Australia sinks with them and the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean will be as one. I am reliably informed that some buyers were prevented from buying by the Commission entering the auction at 10c over the calling price. What is the basis of the Commission's appraisal? To plagiarise the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  it seems that it has power without responsibility. I am also reliably informed that wool stocks throughout the world are very low. Withholding wool from the market at this critical stage could mean that we lose out to synthetics permanently. 
It is no longer difficult for a manufacturer to convert from wool to polyester; it requires very little if any outlay. But we should not think that we have to lose out to synthetics. The in-factory cost of wool tops is still about the same as polyester at a comparable stage. There is a differential however in converting from tops to yarn but let us remember that the man-made fibre industry has its problems too. It is over-capitalised and faces rising costs. One reason why synthetics have been outselling wool is that the promotion of synthetic fibres is subsidised by the fibre makers. I am told that this subsidisation has been curtailed because of the financial difficulties of the synthetic fibre industry. So all is not lost. Let woo] find its own level. I believe in time that there is a good chance that prices will rise. But the worst thing to do is to withhold supplies or try to force the market at this stage. Let the trade have its requirements whilst we go about reconstructing the industry to make it as efficient as possible. - I turn now to the rural reconstruction scheme because this is not working properly either. The aim of the scheme was ostensibly to help the viable producers to get on their feet, to rationalise the industry and to assist the non-viable people out. In the first place, the farm build-up - the farm amalgamation - is just not working at all. At the end of July I obtained some figures from the appropriate State authorities. I found that in South Australia 164 requests had been made for assistance for reconstruction and of these, 6 were for farm amalgamation. In New South Wales there were 1,219 applications for debt reconstruction with 173 approved. I do not have the figures for applications for farm buildup but there was only one approval. In Victoria there were 1,700 applications altogether of which 5 per cent were for farm build-up. It should not come as a surprise that hardly anybody is applying for assistance for farm build-up. With so many growers insolvent or facing insolvency one can scarcely blame them for lacking the confidence to start expanding. The result is that nearly all the applications so far have been for debt reconstruction. The initial intention was that about half of the money was to go for debt reconstruction and half for build-up. It appears that the allocation will be very lopsided. 
The time has come for the Government to abandon its customary Country Party pussyfooting and waiting for the industry to tell it what to do. It must give a positive lead. Having made, the decision that some farm build-up is desirable, it should act on that decision. It should decide where the build-up should occur, who should be encouraged to form farming co-operatives, who should be encouraged to diversify into other forms of production and who should be encouraged to leave the land. What happens if they are refused assistance? Nothing, apparently, and this is a major problem. I note that in New South Wales, at that time that 173 applications were approved, 254 were refused. But nothing apparently happens when they are refused. They are told: You are non-viable' and that is the end of it. Admittedly something is provided under the scheme for rehabilitation but, goodness, how the Minister must blush when he calls a loan of $1,000 rehabilitation. It is small wonder that almost nobody has applied for it. The assistance must be much more realistic. Admittedly in the short run it will be more costly but in the long run it will save money. I should like to quote from  President  Johnson's Budget message in January 1968 when he was talking about vocational rehabilitation programmes. He said: 
This study indicated that the increase in lifetime incomes of participants is many times the rehabilitation cost, confirming previous judgments that this programme merits high priority. 
So, a meaningful rehabilitation scheme does not cost; in the long run, it pays. Now for the third of the Government's schemes - the price support scheme of 36c per lb. My colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  already has pointed out the great iniquities in this proposal. Wealthy wool growers who do not need assistance - there still are some - will receive the lion's share. The implications of this are a further underlining of the grotesque inequalities in our society. 
A further objection is that it does not help the rural reconstruction scheme. In fact, it positively hinders it. There is no doubt that great changes have been made necessary in the structure of rural industry. Is a subsidy going to increase the motivation of the individual farmer to make the necessary changes? I think it might do the reverse. The farmer will think that what sufficed for the last 4 generations will suffice for today, that subsidies will be introduced and that the community will support him in preserving the status, quo even if the status quo is no longer appropriate. 
But now I come to the most ridiculous feature of the lot. The New South Wales Rural Reconstruction Board in July had deferred 37 applications for debt reconstruction because it was waiting to see whether a price support scheme of 36c per lb would be announced in the Commonwealth Budget. What sort of a situation is this? The Government on the one hand says: 'We are supplying money to assist viable farmers'. What is the criterion on which it will be decided whether the farmers are going to be viable? It is how much money the Government will give them through a different appropriation. What a Gilbertian situation. The Government is saying: 'I will give you money out of my left pocket providing you can get so much money out of my right pocket'. 
A further comment, and perhaps the most important, is that 36c per lb is not sufficient to many farmers.  Dr Bruce  Davidson of the University of Sydney say&amp; that about half of Australia's 93,000 wool growers would not be viable at 36c. He says also that only 2 per cent of growers in the pastoral zone could survive at 36c and none at 29c. He gives other slightly better figures for the wheat-sheep areas and the high rainfall areas. What assistance wool growers get should be related to what they need, taking into account each grower's place in a reconstructed industry. But what the Government is doing is taking an arbitrary figure, arrived at probably by a compromise of conflicting views in the Cabinet and not related to anything. It is probable that many wool growers need the equivalent of 40c per lb, some even more. But what each farmer needs in the present circumstances should not be related mathematically to whatever is the difference between 36c per lb and the current market price. 
In the absence of any positive action by the Government, 36c per lb is, of course, better than nothing. But I would like to see the recipients accepting a responsibility to participate in a meaningful reconstruction scheme. In certain circumstances 1 believe subsidies do have a meaningful place. In an ideal world I suppose there would not be any subsidies and the economy would blossom with everybody working in optimally efficient industries. But over rural industries as a whole I believe that there are 3 justifications for subsidies: Firstly, to provide the people with food to eat; secondly, to provide export earnings and foreign exchange; and thirdly, to provide aid to underdeveloped countries. Only the second, the need for foreign exchange, is of great relevance in this context. If we can earn foreign exchange from wool by subsidising its production, it is in our interest to do so. So if we have sufficient farmers who can grow wool and remain viable it is all very well. But on the other hand if we can increase our foreign exchange earnings but the number of growers needed to grow the necessary amount of wool cannot earn a living, to that extent there is a case for subsidising the industry. That is in the circumstances where we have too few wool growers, whereas in the present circumstances, of course, we have too many. My view is that State aid should be for the welfare of the State and for all the people in it. 
In summary, we may buy time with this 36c per lb but if we do not set about reconstructing we will be back to square one. The immediate need is to act urgently to stop the march of synthetics. If the Australian Wool Commisssion persists with high prices and withholding supplies, whatever good is done down on the farm will come to nothing. It may be wondered why I, as a metropolitan member, should be so concerned with the wool industry. The answer is simple. Wool is a national problem. If we get the industry on its feet, all Australians will benefit. If we do not, it will be a continual millstone around the neck of my constituents, the urban wage and salary earners and small businessmen, for they are the taxpayers of this country. It will not affect the wealthy supporters of the Government, who probably became wealthy partly by skilful use of the tax laws in the first place. Unless we can throw off the crushing burden of rural industry, led to bankruptcy and bewilderment by this Government, we can never really afford the urgent measures so desperately needed in the fields of social welfare, Aboriginal welfare, education and all the rest. A constructive rural policy will help the farmer and help the whole community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health upon notice: 
What is the number of (a) public ward beds and (b) private ward beds in each State of the Commonwealth in respect of which hospital benefits are payable. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say whether France detonated a nuclear device in the Pacific on the morning of Monday, 5th July 1971, Australian time? 
If so, can he also say whether levels  of  radioactivity recorded in Adelaide's water supply were the highest on record following this explosion? 
If the position is as stated, will he communicate this fact to the French Government? 
Has the Government protested at the latest series of nuclear experiments in the Pacific by France? 
Will the Government have the matter referred to the United Nations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. I refer to the increase from $300 to $400 in the maximum allowable deduction for education expenses. Is it a fact that only a small fraction of parents can afford to spend over $300 per annum on the education of their children and thereby benefit from the increase? Can the Minister state how many parents of children at government schools will benefit from the increase and how many parents who have children at the affluent independent schools such as those attended by the children of most members of Cabinet will benefit? 
I draw the attention of the Government to the serious situation which has developed in the vehicle building industry in South Australia. It is hardly necessary for me to point out that any setback in that industry means a major setback to the whole of South Australia. This situation has arisen from the announcement of the retrenchment of a large number of tradesmen. A total of 450 tradesmen are to be retrenched from the plants of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and 179 from the plants of Chrysler Australia Ltd. It is true that the tradesmen at the Chrysler plants have been offered work on the production line and that more or less the same thing has happened at the plants of General Motors-Holden's, or rather there will be vacancies which they do expect some of the retrenched tradesmen may be able to take up. The situation is still a very serious one. Even assuming that these men will be able to take up positions on the production line it will still mean a considerable reduction in their take home pay and a considerable under-utilisation of skilled manpower. 
Naturally the Trades and Labor Council of South Australia and the unions concerned are taking a very serious view of the matter. They are submitting a number of proposals to the employers. These proposals include a proposal for joint consultations to be held when retrenchments due to redundancy are likely to occur. The unions want an adequate severance pay related to years of service and they want the employers to indemnify retrenched employees against a loss of earnings as well as the payment of accumulated sick leave and other measures. These measures are essential and they are in fact all found in the section under the heading 'Technological Change' in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. It is imperative, of course, that the unions take up this matter in the first instance with the employers, but I point out to the House that the platform of the Australian Labor Party indicates that a Labor government would be very active indeed in problems such as this, not only in resolving problems as they arise but also in doing as much as possible to try to prevent these distressing human situations arising in the first place. What is happening at the moment? The Liberal Government appears to be standing flatfooted. 
I would like to ask the Minister - I thank him for coming into the House to hear what I have to say - what has become of the Government's plan for adult retraining. Earlier this year in the autumn session the Minister spoke to the Parliament about this. But as far as I can see the matter seems to end there. The policy of the Labor Party states quite clearly that where redundancy occurs there must be adequate assistance for retraining, re-employment, re-housing if necessary and the provision of make-up pay from the previous employer if the new job is obtained at lower wages. But what is the Government's action? There are several deficiencies in the Government's programme. We have not had a chance to discuss these deficiencies but I could just mention some of them in passing. First of all, the maximum pay that is available if an employee is being trained full time is $46.20. Already many of these employees, if they go on to the production line, will have had a considerable reduction in pay of $17 to $19 a week. If they go on to $46.20 they will be on even lower wages still. The maximum retraining period under this scheme is only 12 months and in many cases this is not long enough. 
There is no provision for re-housing and there are many other matters to which I could refer. I draw the attention of all honourable members to the excellent programme on technological change and related issues which emanated from the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party this year. Here is one plank that the Government could very fruitfully take out of the Labor Party's platform. 
The Government's scheme ostensibly started on 1st July this year. But as far as I can tell, the Department of Labour and National Service, or rather the Minister for Labour and National Service, does not seem to have done anything about it. I do not really think that the Government should wait for events to overtake people in situations like this. I would like to see the Government go in and try to assess the situation. I understand that the present Situtation is due mainly to the decision of the car industries to bring out a new model only every 5 years instead of every 2 years as was the case. The Government should assess what the situation will be, what is going to happen, what is the extent of the problem, what it is going to mean in the future and what really needs to be done about it. I think that both employers and the Government have a responsibility to ensure the future and security of the redundant employees. I believe that employers who after ali will benefit, or expect to benefit, from technological change must carry much of the responsibility for the workers who are displaced. However, the Government must act as well. 
I come now to another matter about which I think the Government should alter its attitude. I refer to the 35-hour week. This matter was raised by the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  when he was Minister for Labour and National Service. He stated that the Australian worker must make up his mind whether he wanted to take the benefit of rising productivity in the form of more goods or more leisure. I think there are a number of reasons why we must start thinking of the latter. In other words, we must start thinking of a shorter working week. Increasing technology and automation are causing a great deal of alienation of the work force. The individual worker becomes a cog in the machine. He finds little cause to identify himself with the goods he is producing or with the company paying him to produce those goods. The worker finds less scope for work of a creative nature during the hours of employment. This can only come outside his employment. 
But there is an even more basic question: Do we want more and more productivity? Where will that increased productivity get us in the end? Anyone who saw Professor Paul Ehrlich while he was in 
Australia must be aware that we cannot keep basing our society on more and more goods and higher and higher productivity because sooner or later we will either run out of power, energy, metals or the other resources, or pollution will make this planet uninhabitable. I was most disappointed in the response of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to a question asked last week by my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It was most distressing to learn that the Prime Minister had taken little or no notice of what Professor Ehrlich had to say and what he had heard he was going to discount. This is another reason why we must be thinking of a shorter working week, not just as a reward for greater productivity but instead of greater productivity. I mention these arguments at this time because the unions have a 35-hour week as one of their proposals to ameliorate the present situation in the car industry. It is a proposal which should not be scoffed at and dismissed. It warrants very serious consideration. 1 am not suggesting that we introduce a 35-hour week across the board tomorrow, but I believe that the time has arrived to start planning for its gradual introduction. 
There is another matter which is terribly important and about which the Government has done nothing. If men are eventually to be redundant in the car industry we cannot just shrug our shoulders and say too bad'. We must say: 'What is the best way to deploy these manpower resources'? I think we should be thinking in terms of our run down public transport facilities. Surely it is not a great step for a tradesman to move from building cars to building locomotives, rolling stock and buses, but the Commonwealth is ignoring this terribly important field of public transport. I quote now from an article which appeared in 'Rydge's' Journal of March 1971 and which quotes  Mr Brown, Chairman  of Commissioners of the Victorian Railways, in a report presented to the 1970 Australian and New Zealand Railway Commissioner's Conference. The article states: 
For a tenth of what the Commonwealth plans to spend on Melbourne roads, rail services could be upgraded to provide increased passenger capacity at least equal to that achieved by spending the other nine-tenths on roads. . . . 
Over $600m will be provided to the Slates between 1969-70 and 1973-74. . . . 
If only 10 per cent of Melbourne's share of this were diverted to the upgrading of fixed rail systems the current rate of expenditure on improving the city suburban railways could be more than treble. 
Let us face it. The motor car is here to stay. Thank goodness for that, a sentiment with which 1 do not think anyone would argue. But a little expenditure diverted to public transport from the enormous amount that we are spending on roads will solve many of our urban problems as well as providing security of employment in a gainful way for many skilled workers. This might be part of our answer to the car industry problem. The situation in the motor industry is throwing up many problems. I have indicated some such as adult retraining, a 35-hour week and how far that will help with the problem of automation, the provision of public transport and the whole question of economic planning. There is a tremendous number of problems but thus far the Government has been silent on them. I do not know why it is not bursting to do something about these tremendous problems. It is time the Government faced up to them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Can the Minister provide (a) figures on the volume of air traffic at West Beach Airport in each of the last 10 years and (b) an estimate of the volume of traffic in each of the next 10 years. 
I regret that no Government supporter has seen fit to come in to bat on this measure. Perhaps there are  2  constructions we can put on this. The first is that I will presumably be able to say what I like without being refuted at the end of the debate. But the other more important inference is, I think, that it appears that as far as the Government is concerned we have now reached the perfect financial arrangement with the States and we do not need to comment about it any further because everything in the garden is rosy. 1 do not agree with this, and I would first like to underline the basis for the Opposition's objection to this measure and that is the nature of payroll tax itself. I think perhaps the most obnoxious feature of it is that it is actually a regressive tax. As it is a tax that is levied on payrolls I have no doubt that it will continue to be passed on, as are most other similar taxes, in the form of higher prices. In other words, it will eventually pass on to the consumer in the community in higher commodity prices and this will, of course, affect the people with a lower capacity to pay. So in that sense it is a regressive tax. That is our first objection to it. Another one is that if it is to be a levy on payrolls it constitutes a selective imposition on labour intensive industries. In that sense it is much less fair than straight out company tax or corporate tax. I think these are 2 very important objections to the method of imposing this tax on payrolls. 
This measure that we are debating at the moment is the latest of a series of ad hoc measures that have been devised by the Commonwealth Government to try to overcome some of the budgetary difficulties experienced by the State governments. The first measure that was introduced to overcome the problems that have arisen in recent years was the receipts tax. This was eventually declared to be invalid and so something else had to be found. That is when the Commonwealth, under the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  at the Premiers Conference in 1970 decided to make some alteration to the arrangement with the States. A number of measures came out of this. For a start the base loading factor and the betterment factor, which increased the disbursements to the States each year, were increased. The betterment factor was increased from 1.2 per cent to 1.8 per cent per annum for the purpose of determining the grants for 1971-72 and subsequent years. Then, as I mentioned, the base loading which is used to determine the grants was also increased. There were other things such as interest free capital grants to try to tak? some of the debt burden off the shoulders of the State governments. 
We have done that but even these measures have not been sufficient for the State governments to be able to cope with the tremendously increased demands on their services - services which I think should have the highest priority, those that happen to fall within the responsibility of the State governments, namely health, many aspects of social welfare, and, most particularly, education. So what do we have at the moment? We do not seem to have any concrete plans as to how the State governments are going to finance their future programmes. We have a hotchpotch. We have the current formula for disbursements to the States concocted at the 1970 Premiers Conference. We have payroll tax, which has recently been handed over to the States, and we have various specific purpose grants, such as grants for independent schools, Commonwealth secondary education and a whole host of other things, but we do not really know whether we will get the best value for our money. 
I suppose it could be argued that the money is going to the State governments, anyway, and that it does not really matter what formula is used, so long as the money is given to the States and they spend it. But I do not agree with this because I think that we need to have an overall programme for allocating our national resources so that we get the best value for our money. At the present time we do not know how far we are advancing in the various programmes which the State governments are trying to formulate in health and education. We do not know whether there might be better ways of spending our money in order to achieve the same ends. 
I do not agree with the general formula underlying the present Budget, that we need less government expenditure. This is where we differ very markedly from the Liberal Government. We believe that there is room for, and that it is imperative that there should be, much more government expenditure, but in spending more funds we have to get the best value for our money. There are areas in which government expenditure is excessive and unnecessary, and these are the things we have to prune. Where it is necessary, we must boldly increase government expenditure. 
There are 2 things wrong with the present overall broad Commonwealth-State financial relationships. First, State governments seem to be the poor relatives who get the leftovers. If a matter is mainly within the responsibility of the State governments, somehow that matter seems to have secondary importance. I suppose it is because the Commonwealth is the one that collects the moneys. 
For example, State governments are responsible for education. 1 suggest that it is because education is a State responsibility that the Commonwealth tends to think that education is less important than civil aviation, the Postmaster-General's Department, or defence. I suggest that if, by some constitutional change, education became a Commonwealth responsibility, we would regard education as having the same priority as other matters with which the Commonwealth is concerned. I think that we must get away from this attitude that if a thing is the Commonwealth's responsibility it is more important. The Commonwealth takes its chop first and the poor relatives, the State governments, take what is left over. I think that we have to look at all the programmes of the Commonwealth and the States, put them alongside each other and determine the priorities. The other great weakness in Commonwealth and State relationships is our present system of having budgeting on a purely annual basis. 
With respect,  Sir, 1  am only trying to point out that in our opposition to these Bills we are not opposing the principle of making payments to the States, but we believe that there are better ways of going about this than through levying payroll tax, and 1 am only trying to endeavour to establish the alternative arrangements which could be made. We are discussing an extremely important measure. It is the basis upon which State governments are increasing their expenditure. For example, the South Australian Government has increased enormously its expenditure on education this year. I think that the financial programme and the basis upon which it is formulated are of quite critical importance to this debate and to the Commonwealth Parliament. However, I do not want to canvass this matter much further. I believe that as part of the programme for improving Commonwealth- 
State financial relationships we should look more towards adopting a system of programme budgeting. We should budget not so much on the basis of the type of expenditure - whether it is for postage, telephones, transport or something like that - but on the basis of the end use, on the programme for which the expenditure will be incurred. Of course, this also implies that we should budget for periods of more than one year and that we should have much greater emphasis on cost-utility analyses. 1 was going to say a little more about that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but perhaps I might be pushing your tolerance a little too far. I should like to point out how important it is that we should have broad programmes for Commonwealth and State expenditure on a programme budgeting basis so that we can decide the broad national priorities. This would save a lot of unnecessary government expenditure. This annual budgeting system has a great number of weaknesses. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens ofthe Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a newspaper article attributing to the Minis;ter for the Army the statement that he had directed that only national servicemen who wished to go are to be sent to Vietnam from now on? He went on to say: 
It would be less than sensible to send someone to Vietnam who does not want to go. 
I ask the Minister: Does this represent Government policy? If so, has his attention been drawn to a statement which his predecessor once removed, the present Minister for Education and Science, made on 7th July 1970 in which he rejected the concept that only volunteers for overseas service should be sent to Vietnam, saying that it was not practical and that it would establish a 2-Army concept? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  It reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted wilh a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill  a  second reading the House is of opinion that  a  joint select committee should be established to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route'. 
In the discussions this evening some comments have been made about the proposed site for the second Sydney airport, and perhaps it would be a good thing if someone were to remind honourable members that other airports in Australia have problems, too, and not the least of those is the Adelaide facility at West Beach. I want to say a few things about this airport because it is of particular concern to people in the area I represent. West Beach abuts on to the northern end of my electorate. The Minister must realise - or he should realises - that there is considerable public pressure for the relocation of the Adelaide airport. This was manifested very much a couple of years ago when there was a threat of the night curfew being lifted. It has again come to the fore with the possibility of extensions to the south west runway. 
It appears not unlikely that with increasing numbers of movements at Adelaide airport there will be increasing pressure for removal of the terminal away from the centre of the metropolitan area. This is why I believe that the Government must carry out an exhaustive investigation of the options, that is, the option of what happens if we keep the airport where it is and the option of what happens if we move it elsewhere. But incredible as it may seem, it looks as if no long term planning has been undertaken for Adelaide airport. Therefore, I put it to the Government that something must be done now, because clearly there will be a long wait before a definitive decision is made. For example, look at the problem concerning Sydney airport. After all the debate, all the anguish to nearby residents and all the committees, there is still no decision on where Sydney's new airport will be located. The same delay must be expected for Adelaide, I suppose, if we are going to be realistic. So let us start working out now the alternatives and their implications. 
In order to find out how much work has been done in long term planning for Adelaide, I put on the notice paper a series of questions addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation on the very first day of this session. I was staggered to learn how little is known about and how unconcerned this Government is for the future of West Beach. There has been much to concern nearby residents in recent years, and the most recent has been as a result of studies made of the implications of extending the south western runway. Reports appeared that this would affect road works being undertaken by the South Australian Highways Department 
asked the- Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Can the Minister provide figures on the noise level in areas adjacent to the (a) North East, South West runway at West Beach Airport in each of the last ten years and (b) art estimateof the noise level in those areas in each of the next ten years. 
I want briefly to enter a plea for the Government to take a more realistic and humane attitude towards helping victims of the civil war in East Pakistan, especially those refugees who have fled from East Pakistan into the surrounding Indian States. The total amount of aid that has been pledged from Australia has reached $3m, and it would appear from the attitude expressed in the previous debate on this matter in the House by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that the Government is well satisfied with its effort. I believe, however, that the Government must do a great deal more. Not nearly enough is being done. 
The amount of aid provided so far is $3m. I think it should be pointed out that not all of this amount will actually reach the refugees and the other war victims because, as was acknowledged in the speech by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  on Tuesday, a lot of the funds that have gone, is actually taken up in freight costs. I think the Minister has admitted that of the extra Si. 5m that is now being allocated as from this week as aid for the refugees, $250,000 will be taken up in freight costs. So the actual total amount of aid is considerably less than $3m. In view of the size of the problem, I believe that a great deal more must be done. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the young people who have been fasting over recent days in support of this cause, particularly the young people who have been fasting outside Parliament House. I think they have done a remarkable job in highlighting this problem, especially in bringing it to the attention of the Government. I deplore the comments of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about these people on Tuesday in which he implied that they were not being constructive in their actions. I think the very fact that later the Government announced that it had increased the amount of aid shows that they were being constructive. In fact, they probably partly made the Government wake up to itself but it has not done anything near enough so far. I was pleased to bear the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  rebuke the Minister for Primary Industry on this matter at question time this morning, thereby implying that he did realise that these people were acting in a good cause. 
I would like the Australian Government to put its money where its mouth is and give a great deal more. The amount of $10m which has been suggested as an initial outlay is not unreasonable. I know that this amount was suggested by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  when I was with him in West Bengal. At that time I supported his plea. I again do so. I do not think it is an unreasonable amount. But I do think that this aid must be continuing until all refugees are repatriated and rehabilitated. I cannot understand the reason for the apathy on the part of the Government. It is inexplicable. Perhaps an explanation is that it is not a straight-out question of Communism versus antiCommunism. I would suggest that if it were a matter of Communism versus antiCommunism the Government would not be able to get aid in quick enough. We would have Ministers trotting over there every week trying to see what they could do to stop the tide of Marxism-Leninism coming towards Australia's shores. But because that issue is not involved the Government is apathetic. I think this shows an extremely cynical attitude by the Government. In my view the refugee situation there should be required viewing by, if not the Prime Minister, at least the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For that matter, why not have an all-party delegation go there and have a first-hand look, at the situation. If this were done it might change the attitude of the Government to this problem. 
I have in front of me tonight some figures which were supplied to me by the Indian High Commission. It might surprise the House to learn how little aid has reached the Indian Government. When I was in West Bengal 2 months ago the Indian Government said that on the assumption the refugees would be there for 6 months - it would be a good thing if they could be repatriated after 6 months - the Indian Government would need $600m worth of aid. I have been told that up to this stage only $170m worth pf aid has been pledged. But the remarkable thing is that only $17m worth of aid has actually reached the Indian Government through the channels. That probably would be enough to sustain the refugee population for about 2 weeks. I am not talking about Australian aid; that is the total foreign aid which has been given. Only a modest programme has been carried out by the Indian Government so far. It is only a life support programme. It is supplying some medicine, food and shelter. With great respect to the Indian Government, which is doing a magnificent job considering the enormity of the problem, I think the target could be set a lot higher because, although the Indian Government is doing its very best, the refugees are falling further behind. They are falling behind because of a lack of food, medicine and shelter. 
The refugees are probably getting enough in the way of calories, but they are not getting first class protein. They are certainly not getting enough iron. Of course, they have a very great requirement for iron because they all suffer from iron deficiency - anaemia - and the women all have a baby every year, which means that they have an increased iron requirement, too. There is a shortage of medicine. But even if there were enough medicines, the chronic ill health problem still would not be solved because the refugees are so completely overcrowded that re-infection will occur. 
Even if we give medicines to the refugees, the conditions are propitious for them to become re-infected immediately with hookworm, round worm, amoebic dysentery and other conditions which are liable to occur in the grossly overcrowded areas in which these people have to live. Even the shelter that is being provided is not adequate. Conditions must be even worse now than they were when I was there because the monsoons have been continuing over the last 2 months. Even at the early stage when I was there the roofs over these dwellings, if one could call them that, were admitting water. The water was coming through the roofs of these places which were providing hardly any shelter at all from the monsoon weather. 
I think that much more can be done. Even if we provide this money, we must recognise that the aims of the programme are modest and we really could set our sights higher. We need to give these people good quality protein foods and much more in the way of shelter. On the subject of medical conditions, we ought to be able to provide better sanitary facilities. I do not know why we could not take over responsibility for SO refugee camps and build proper septic tanks or something of that kind. At least in this way we might be able to make a start towards eliminating some of the chronic debilitating conditions which arc responsible for many deaths, particularly of children, in these camps. 
As I said before, I would like to see a couple of Ministers from this Government visit this area. Major-General Cullen, on behalf of the Australian voluntary agencies, did so. I would like to see the Australian Government take similar action by sending Government Ministers there so that they might have a first hand look at what needs to be done and initiate, in consultation with the Indian Government, a programme of assistance. The Government should not wait to be pushed by back bench members of the Parliament or voluntary agencies into doing something. The Government should not hang off, waiting to see how much such and such a country gives to the refugees and then say that it will give a proportionate amount on a per capita basis. 
Australia is perhaps the most affluent country in the Indian area of the world. I think that we are the country which can do most in relation to this problem. Think of the tremendous difference it would make, to the stature of Australia and to our status in this area if we gave a lead. People in these countries could say: 'Here is Australia getting in and really doing something'. I take the opportunity to compare the Australian Government's attitude on this matter with its attitude regarding the Indian Ocean. Soviet naval vessels are carrying out what I would regard as gestures in the empty wastes of the Indian Ocean. In response to these activities the Australian Government is prepared to spend $80m on a naval base at Cockburn Sound. I compare the expenditure of $80m for that purpose with the expenditure of $3m not on trackless wastes of ocean but on the reality of 8 million war refugees from East Pakistan in India. I think that we could do a lot better. It is high time that the Government got off its backside and did something. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does the Minister anticipate a reduction in property values in areas adjacent to NorthEast/SouthWest runway at West" Beach Airport as a result of increasing aircraft noise. 
If so, (a) can the Minister furnish details of the estimated reductions in property values and (b) is it the intention of the Government to compensate property owners for the loss. 
First, I wish to protest at the haste with which this legislation is being pushed through the House. This Bill with which we are dealing embodies 3 extremely important measures. W.e are dealing with an increase  in the nursing home subsidy and the doubling of the prescription charge. We are enacting also in this legislation an increase in the fees of general practitioners. It would seem to me that any one of these measures could command a full day's discussion of this House. It seems to me also an exercise in indecent haste to push the Bill through in one day. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that this is the one day in the sitting week on which the proceedings of the House are not being broadcast. The first matter with which I wish to deal has to do with nursing homes. The Bill proposes to increase the level of nursing home payments made by this Government. Because this provision is included in the Bill, we propose to support the Bill at its second and third reading stages although we have moved an amendment at the second reading stage. 
The cost of nursing home care is perhaps the most serious problem in the whole structure of community welfare services. The problem is entirely of the Government's own making and is due to the failure of the Government to formulate any programme of care for the chronically ill. All the Government's attention has been focussed on the acute hospitals, and what happens to patients outside the acute hospitals has been regarded by this Government as someone else's problem. 
The matter of nursing home care must be integrated on the one hand with the acute hospital and on the other hand with hospital accommodation and domiciliary care services. Because no total programme has been formulated and because the Government has been preoccupied almost solely with acute hospitals, the community has more acute hospital beds than it really needs. But many of the occupants of those beds are there because they cannot afford nursing care in nursing homes. On the other hand, there are many occupants of nursing homes who are there not because they require nursing home care but because no adequate hostel accommodation or domiciliary care services are available for them. I am reliably informed that 30 per cent of nursing home patients in South Australia could be cared for in hostels, in day centres or by domiciliary care services. This would be cheaper for the patient and cheaper for the Government and, above all, it would provide the patient with better care in that the care given would be more appropriate to the patient's needs. 
However, the most urgent need is for the cost burden to be taken off the shoulders of nursing home patients. This burden has been a crushing one. For many people it has meant using up their savings or having their nursing home fees paid out of the wages of sons and daughters who have their own families to support as well. This Bill reduces the amount that must be found by the patient or the patient's relatives to pay the nursing home fees and, for that reason, the Opposition will not oppose the passage of the Bill. However, it is quite inadequate in itself, because before very long nursing home fees must rise again and we will be back to the same situation as before. 
What must happen is that the sick and the aged must no longer have to pay the cost of nursing home care. The cost should be no charge on the patient at all in the same way as acute hospital care already is no charge on insured patients. Having made nursing home care a charge on the public purse, the cost should be kept within reasonable bounds by upgrading the scope of hostel care and domiciliary care which will mean an improvement in the quality of health care and a lesser charge on Government revenue. 
There must be also, 1 believe, much more direct Government activity in the field of nursing homes. I refer in this respect to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs which, at page 54, recommends: 
That, as a means of overcoming shortages of nursing home bed availability, and to establish State Governments as being primarily responsible for providing nursing homes within the total hospital care concept, the Commonwealth Government should make unmatched grants to the Stales Ibr the construction, or enlargement, of State nursing homes. 
I agree that the Commonwealth Government must either give more support to the State Governments or help local government authorities and that, if it does not do this, it should go into the field itself and construct its own Commonwealth nursing homes. 
The second principal feature of this Bill is the doubling of charges on national health service prescriptions. The charge is increased from 50c to $1. This measure is completely unacceptable to the Opposition. We will oppose this measure in the Committee stage and we would have opposed the whole Bill if the Bill did not provide for nursing home benefits to be increased. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party is that pharmaceutical benefits shall be provided without charge to the patient. The concept of a deterrent charge is really illusory when we consider whom we are trying to deter. In the first place, the prescription is made out by the doctor who does not have a direct financial interest in the cost of the prescription. So, the effect that the deterrent charge will have will vary according to the degree to which the doctor is prepared to compromise his patient's medical welfare in order to safeguard the patient's financial welfare. We should not be putting doctors in this position. 
However, if it is assumed, for argument's sake, that there is some deterrent effect on the patient, it is more likely to be the poor man than the rich man who will be deterred. The poor man may be deterred from obtaining some medication that he really needs. Meanwhile the rich man will not be deterred even if his medical need is less. In other words, the deterrent charge does not deter the less sick; it deters the less rich. Whether there is a deterrent effect or not,, a charge of Si on national health scheme prescriptions can amount to a considerable sum if a number of different medications are prescribed and if repeats are prescribed also. Taking this and the doctor's fees into account we see that quite a considerable sum is involved. 
I could quite understand many people now regarding the Government's claim to providing a pharmaceutical benefits scheme as fraudulent, because although the cost per prescription has risen only marginally, the patient's contribution is now to be doubled in one stroke. According to the figures of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  10 years ago the average price per item was $2.18. The patient's share was 50c; in other words, 23 per cent. Now the average cost is to rise from $2.18 to $2.30, and the patient's share will be $1. So the patient's share per prescription will be increased from 23 per cent to 43 per cent. Many- more prescriptions are now being written so the Government has decided to make the patient pay a greater share. The . Government is increasing the number of benefits available, and thereby hopes,- presumably, that it will gain political mileage, but it is not prepared to pick up the check. As it was put to me by a correspondent, it is like inviting someone to a fine dinner, then complaining about the cost and asking the guest to put his hand in his pocket to help pay the account. 
Of course, it is proper for the Government to investigate the causes of the rising cost of the scheme, and this is currently under consideration by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits, of which I am a member. I am not in a position to determine what the findings of the Committee will be, but I am prepared to say that raising prescription charges is a most iniquitous way to try to cut costs, besides not being conducive to good medical practise. The level of expenditure on pharmaceutical benefits is almost as great as the expenditure on medical and hospital benefits combined. It is continuing to rise steeply. There is a much greater amount of drug consumption in Australia. Therefore, I think it is time that we started asking: Are we getting any healthier as a result of this? Again, ] shall not, as a member of the Select Committee, presume to answer this question, but I shall say that it is not sufficient just to look around for scapegoats. We must look at the whole social and physical environment in which people are seeking and taking more medication. 
The third principal measure in this Bill is to approve by legislation the increases in doctors' fees which were introduced earlier this year. I believe that we are now at the crossroads in medical insurance. Costs are spiralling. We are now legislating to raise fees. How many more times will we go through this process before we stop and ask where it is getting us? We are at the crossroads in health insurance as we are in the care of the chronically ill, about whom I was speaking earlier. Are we going to wait until nursing home fees rise again before we ask: Are we getting the best in nursing care for our money? So also for health insurance. Medical fees are rising rapidly. During the 12 months between December 1969 and December 1970, the period during which the revamped national health scheme was introduced, doctors' incomes rose by 25 per cent - not this doc tor's income. We are now accepting a rise of 15 per cent in general practitioners' fees. Commonwealth expenditure on medical benefits has more than doubled in the last 5 years. I might mention in passing that hospital charges are also rising at a phenomenal rate. 
The document which was circulated to honourable members today by the Minister for Health indicates that public ward charges in South Australia are $16 a day. I do not think it is very long ago - a couple of years ago - when the charge was $10 a day. This is a pretty heavy rise. At the same time an increasing proportion of funds used for current expenditure on public hospitals is coming from State government sources. So State governments are having to pay increased amounts. In summary, there is a rapidly increasing expenditure on hospital benefits, medical benefits and pharmaceutical benefits. The percentage of our gross national product which we are spending on health services is also rising. I have some figures here which I obtained from the Bureau of Census and Statistics today, which show that excluding chemists' charges, 3.3 per cent of our gross national product was spent on health in 1959-60, 3.7 per cent in 1964-65 and 4.1 per cent in 1969-70. If one includes chemists' charges, 4.9 per cent of the gross national product was spent on health in 1959-60, 5.4 per cent in 1964-65 and 5.8 per cent in 1969-70. So we must really ask the same question as we asked in relation to pharmaceutical benefits: We are spending more on health, but are we getting any healthier? It is quite possible that expenditure on health will continue to increase without it really doing anybody much good. 
It is quite clear that a first reform must be to abolish the present system of voluntary health insurance, and this is the first thing that a Federal Labor government will do in this field. We will abolish the system of voluntary health insurance. We will introduce universal health insurance with contributions based on ability to pay. The setting up of a single Government scheme will save funds by reducing the cost of collection of revenue, which  can be done through the Taxation Office, and by avoiding the other problems associated' with having a multiplicity of funds, such as advertising costs and the need for each fund to carry a surplus. Payment through this fund will be by fee for service. 
However, Labor will also establish a system of staffing public hospitals with salaried medical officers. A system of comprehensive community health services .will be set up with the family doctor as one of the team, with nurses, physiotherapists, medical specialists, social workers, dieticians and so on. In this context I believe that we can, we must and we will evolve in the direction of a fully salaried medical service. The tendency has already become evident for increasing numbers of graduate doctors to enter ii. to salaried positions, and I believe that this tendency will continue. Thus I believe that a salaried medical service involving the great majority of doctors will come, not at the behest of an authoritarian government, but by evolution because it is consistent with the best in medical care. 
Not only will it be best for the patients; it will be far less extravagant than the present fee for service system. Indications from the pre-paid systems, such as the Kaiser Permanente Scheme in the United States of America, suggest that the number of acute hospital beds required can reach as low as 2 per 1,000, or even less. Another benefit is the decrease . in the number of operations the merit of which is sometimes disputed. I refer to tonsillectomy and hysterectomy operations. Furthermore, I believe that the potential exists for reductions in expenditure on prescription goods in a pre-paid medical system. One of the best examples of the merits of a salaried service can be seen by reference to my own specialty of anaesthesia. The specialist anaesthetist is highly trained in a number, of specialised tasks, such as the administration of anaesthetics, supervision of patients in the post-operative recovery ward, intensive care of patients with life threatening respiratory and circulatory conditions, the management of unconscious patients, and the relief of pain such as that associated with the early post-operative period, with certain chronic diseases or with child birth. 
In the public hospital the specialist anaesthetist can devote his whole time to these activities. He himself can- handle the more difficult anaesthetic problems and can leave the simple cases to non-specialist staff. Thus he uses his specialist skills all the time - a productive use of manpower. Contrast this with the specialist anaesthetist in private practice. He gives only anaesthetics, and many of these could be handled by a competent general practitioner. The rest of the time is spent shuttling through city traffic from hospital to hospital. How utterly wasteful. Meanwhile, the post-operative care and so on in the private hospitals is carried out by the nursing staff. This is a responsibility which nurses do not have to bear in public hospitals. This is particularly topical in relation to the present measure because one of the items in the Schedule for amendment is item 44. The pre-operative or preanaesthetic visit by an anaesthetist involves a further waste of time, which is quite unnecessary, and would not take place in a fully salaried hospital system. So I say to the Government: Put the fees up now, put nursing home payments up now, put prescription charges up now, but sooner or later a decision will have to be made as to whether any better service is obtained for the extra money. 
I think that there are plenty of examples to indicate that the present system positively encourages a waste of money and manpower. To take an example, a multiple electrolysis determination attracts a fee of approximately $15. I have a strong suspicion that this service is greatly overpriced. There is a great tendency to have this examination carried out on many patients, but there is scant evidence to indicate that screening the community in this way will result in a healthier community. Yet the over-priced benefit gives the opportunity for pathology specialists to make handsome incomes, although I do not claim that they necessarily do this. But certainly the system can encourage scarce medical manpower into this specialty without great return in the form of community help. Not nearly enough is being done to determine the medical manpower needs of the community. I believe that this should be the primary task of the medical faculties in our universities. Certainly some of our medical teachers are giving a splendid lead, and I have particularly in mind Professor Saint in Brisbane and Professor Hetzel of the Monash University. A Labor government will give every encouragement to medical skills to become fully involved in community medicine. I would like to quote from a recent article by Professor Saint in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' in which he suggested that medical schools must involve themselves more in community medicine. It reads: 
And in few hospitals is much Interest paid to the long-term supportive care. 
This was referred to by my friend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  It goes on: 
Pejorative adjectives are used to describe old ladies with strokes and old gentlemen with bronchitis; rehabilitation is something somebody else does; and what skills the social worker, the physiotherapist and the occupational therapist employ are known only to undergraduates who marry them. 
He went on to say:  . . if we believe it to be true that the range of experience of the doctor-in-training should be broadened, then we should be creating elective attachments and a teaching atmosphere in a spectrum of institutions which have not hitherto been regarded as being worthy of affiliation with medical schools - industrial health clinics, geriatric day-centres, rehabilitation centres, psychiatric clinics and day-centres, clinics for drug addicts, child guidance centres, and remedial centres for autistic and dyslexic children. And the answer to the problem of rejuvenating interest in general practice and the elevation of its prestige is not only to attach students to individual practices, desirable though this may be, but to create pioneering academic units in community health ... 
He went on to say: 
. and to experiment with the design and organisation of health centres, something which we have scarcely begun to do in Australia. 
In the final analysis what really matters is deciding where best to spend our money to achieve a high standard of community health. This means not so much more and more on doctors' fees, on hospitals or other institutions. It means preventive medicine. It means reducing the incidence and prevalence of disease. And preventive medicine is meant in the widest context. It may mean anti-pollution measures to reduce respiratory disease; it may mean measures to improve the urban environment to reduce the incidence of psychoneurosis; it may mean safer motor cars and better road rules to reduce injury from road accidents. Again, as Professor Saint said, there is so much more which ought to be done which is not being done at all. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns the engagement by the Tariff Board of temporary staff, in particular from the Department of Economics at Monash University. Is the Prime Minister aware that this department at Monash University is engaged in the preparation of an equilibrium model to show the effects throughout the economy of alterations in tariffs or exchange rates? Does not this department at Monash University contain the very expertise needed by the Tariff Board in its investigations? Will the Prime Minister assure the House that the Tariff Board will get the assistance of the best personnel available, whether temporary or permanent, so that it will be enabled to make recommendations which will advance the living standards of Australian working people? 
1  want to speak about a very important matter relating to the environment but first I want to register my disappointment and dismay at the reply given by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to a question asked of him a couple of weeks ago by my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The Prime Minister was asked about the views expressed by Professor Ehrlich on the television programme 'Monday Conference'. The Prime Minister admitted that he had not taken very much note of what Professor Ehrlich had said and that he was not very impressed by that which he had noted. I hope that the Prime Minister and the Government will look at the matter suggested by the honourable member for Adelaide to see whether, in their opinion, there is any substance in what Professor Ehrlich said and whether the Government should take action to try to prevent population problems affecting Australia and other countries. 
I was a bit saddened last night when we were discussing this matter when my colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  raised this problem. I think a lot of honourable members on the Government side regarded it as one great big yawn. One Country Party member said: 'You fellows are all prophets of doom'. It rather surprised me to hear this and I think a lot of Government supporters have their priorities completely out of order. They spend a tremendous amount of time worrying about such things as the presence of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean - we heard about this matter at question time this morning - of the tremendous threat it represents to Australia. As a result the Government plans to spend at least $80m on a naval base at Cockburn Sound and a lot more to try to arm ourselves against the Soviet navy. In my view the danger to Australia and the rest of the world from ecological disaster is about 10 times as great as the danger from the Soviet navy. I believe we ought to put our defence priorities on a more reasonable level. The risk from ecological problems is probably much greater and that is the direction in which we should be spending more of our money. 
I want particularly to draw the attention of the Government and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  to a unique area called Hallett Cove in my electorate in South Australia. In case honourable members are not familiar with Hallett Cove, it is an area on the coast near metropolitan Adelaide which is of unique geological interest. For that reason there is a strong desire on the part of many people in Adelaide - I think I can safely say the majority of concerned people in Adelaide - that it be preserved as an area of scientific interest. It is also an area of considerable anthropological interest containing remnants of Aboriginal tribal sites, and there is botanical interest there as well. It is also a quite unique beauty spot except for certain derelict shacks which, fortunately, are to be demolished very shortly. In relation to this area I would like to quote from a document prepared by the South Australian Science Teachers Association. It states: 
Hallett Cove is unique. There ' would be no other site in South Australia, and few in the world, where so many geological features are evident in such a compact area. 
Geological phenomena happen on a large scale Hallett Cove is a microcosm of a large variety of geomorphological and geological phenomena. Because of its Permian glacial deposits the region has world-wide significance. It is the best preserved Permian glacial deposit in Australia and should be kept as a well protected unit to enable intercontinental correlation. It is one key in the development of theories of the Earth's changes as a whole and not just in a specific locality, state or continent. 
This area of Hallett Cove is now under threat from housing development. Unfortunately, most of the land, except that immediately in the area of scientific development, is owned by a couple of development companies, and the development that is intended there and certain proposed foreshore development is considerably threatening the area. Some 51 acres of the area have been proclaimed by the South Australian Government as an area of scientific interest, and it is expected that the South Austraiian Government will purchase that area. It is also suggested that the Government might purchase an area around this as a buffer zone. However, the South Australian Science Teachers Association and many other people who support it have recommended that the whole area in question should be preserved. It is the feeling of the Association that if only this area of 51 acres is preserved, its unique features will soon disappear. So the Association has recommended that a larger area should be preserved in its natural state, and it recommends the following boundaries for the area: The western boundary, the present shoreline; the northern boundary, the northern boundary already marked off by the Hallett Cove model estate; the eastern boundary, the Port Stanvac railway line; and the southern boundary, the existing road known as Grand Central Drive and a line extended from the end of this road to the shoreline. 
The South Australian Government is examining the question of purchasing not only this area of scientific interest but also the buffer zone around it. However, it is felt that there could be a danger in this; that even this area would not be sufficient to preserve the area as a unit. I am suggesting that the Commonwealth Government could give assistance to help to purchase the whole of the area in order to preserve it for posterity and also for the present generation, particularly the school children who visit the area in their thousands every year. The land in question can be preserved only if the Government purchases it. The cost of purchasing the land is pretty high; it could well be as high as $lm. I am hoping that it will not be as high as that, and I would hate to see that amount pass into the hands of a land development company, but this possibly could happen. If it does, I believe that it may be out of the financial ability of the South Australian Government to pay for it. I should like to see the Commonwealth assist, if it can, to try to help purchase this land. I would suggest that perhaps if the South Australian Government purchased the 51 acres and the buffer zone around it, the Commonwealth might assist in purchasing the remaining areas which extend to the boundaries which I have mentioned. 
I would like to emphasise most strongly that it is important that this area be preserved as a unit. The South Australian Science Teachers Association stated: 
It is most important that students see the points of interest at the Cove in their natural setings. It is quite impossible to get any 'feeling' for such a place if it has been built upon by so-called developers' . . . 
A teacher would rind it impossible to convey adequately any 'feeling' for the Aboriginal camp sites of that area as it has now been developed. This same state of affairs will eventuate at Hallett Cove unless the cove, with our proposed buffer zone, is reserved immediately. 
I should like to see this area preserved by the Government as a whole unit. It could be regarded, in a sense, as a science laboratory, because it is an open air science laboratory. Its cost, I might say, is only about two or three times the cost of building conventional science laboratories which are paid for partly by the Commonwealth Government. I ask the Government to have a look at this matter. It was pointed out by the Prime Minister yesterday when he was replying to a question from the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that, in addition to using powers of persuasion, the Commonwealth could act on environmental matters by advancing certain funds. 
I see that in the Estimates this year wishing has been advanced for this sort of thing. I think that in this regard there is really a tremendous amount of good that the Commonwealth could do. This area is a national asset. I think that the Australian people would not be unwilling to help to pay some of the cost of preserving it for all of the people of Australia. I ask the Government to have a good look at this problem. Perhaps, as it is an educational problem, the Minister might like to confer with his colleague, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to see whether a recommendation could be made to the Government to help the South Australian Government to purchase this asset for the people of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
To which schools in the Electoral Division of Kingston have Commonwealth funds been made available for the construction of (a) science laboratories and (b) libraries. 
What was the amount of Commonwealth money allocated in each case. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members oi the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened wilh inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, il implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think that the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  about demonstrators - that is, those people who wanted to demonstrate their concern for the war victims in a practical way - were, to say the least, rather unworthy. I should like also to refer to one specific remark that the honourable member made. I think he said that the sending of relief was well planned and well executed. I do not think that the Director of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories would agree with that comment in view of the great hold-up which occurred with the delivery of cholera vaccine, which took a week longer than it should have to get to West Bengal. While this vaccine was sitting in Melbourne, 1 understand there were 6 Hercules aircraft sitting on the tarmac at Richmond and I do not see why those aircraft could not have been utilised. So, I do not think that this situation really squares with the statement by the honourable member for the Northern Territory that the sending of relief was well planned and well executed. 
The Opposition, of course, is glad that the aid has been increased to $5.5m but I certainly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  because I believe that the amount of aid that is now being given could be greatly increased. The Opposition believes that the aid that has been given is quite inadequate in terms of what Australians can afford to give. Certainly, it is pitifully inadequate in terms of what is needed, firstly, to keep the refugees alive and, secondly, to avoid the complete collapse of the Indian economy. The Australian Government probably says: 'Well we are the custodians of the public purse - of the taxpayers' money - and we have to watch it carefully', but I believe that the Australian people would support a much more generous donation of aid and a continuing aid programme to the war victims. I think we have seen this manifested by the people who have taken part in the fasting, in the letter writing campaign and, only today, with the public gesture by the Seamen's Union in South Australia. This is something of which the Government could well take note. I am firmly convinced in my own mind that the Australian people would support an aid programme of something like $10m or, if we are giving $1 per capita, of $12.5m. 
I should like to say more about this figure of $10m or $ 12.5m because it is important that we do not regard it as having a special significance in its own right. There is nothing particularly magical about it and I hope that if and when the Government eventually does allow its aid to be lifted to the figure of $10m or $ 12.5m, all those people who have been supporting the campaign for greater aid will not say: 'Well, that is enough. The Government has now discharged its obligations'. We should not get it into our minds that all we need to do is to give $ 12.5m because there is no doubt that a great deal more must be done. This is only the start. Aid must be completely ongoing until all the refugees have been repatriated and rehabilitated. At the moment we are only really at the start of the problem. An enormous amount remains to be done. I think this can be seen by what is being done through the efforts of the Indian Government to try to re-locate the war victims. I think something like 50,000 a week have been moved largely by the efforts of the Soviet Union which has put in large passenger aircraft to help transport some of the war victims to the central States of India. But in spite of these efforts they are falling further behind because although they manage to re-locate a certain number in one week the same number are coming over the border in one day. As has been mentioned by previous speakers in this debate the amount , of aid that is required is very much greater that what has been pledged and the amount that has actually been received is relatively small - only about $20m. 
I have with me some figures which were given to a United States Senate subcommittee convened to investigate the problems connected with refugees and escapees. These figures show that the total economic cost to India to support the current 6 million refugees for 6 months would range from about $500m to around $820m. This was when the number was only 6 million. If we extrapolate that to the present figure of 9 million - that is the figure which the Indian Government has given and I see it is the figure which the Australian Government accepts - the cost would be about S750m to perhaps a high estimate of $1230m to sustain the refugees for 6 months. This is only a start. This shows just the enormous amount that remains to be done. I do not really see why the Australian Government should not be making its own inquiries independently. Should we not be doing what the United States Senate sub-committee has done and try to determine what the needs are, precisely what the Indian Government wants and how much it does cost to sustain this enormous number of refugees for 6 months, one year or for however long they will be maintained? I think we ought to get more first-hand knowledge as to what is needed. 
The other point about this figure of $10m or $12.5m, whatever you like, is that it is not just a question of providing more aid because the problems that are imposed by the influx of refugees are not entirely economic. There are political and social problems just as much as there are economic problems. A problem that has been caused by the influx of refugees is that a refugee who is already getting a daily supply of rations can virtually go out and offer his services as a labourer for very much less than the going price. The resultant downward pressure on wages has caused and I am sure will continue to cause a great deal of friction between the refugees and the people of West Bengal. Similarly there will be inflationary pressure which will cause similar social friction in the area. Another great problem - and this is related to my point that it is not purely a matter of providing funds - is that even before the refugees arrived in West Bengal that area was tremendously overcrowded, very largely due to the large number of refugees that had come from East Pakistan since partition in 1947. Between 1947 and the beginning of this year 5,500,000 refugees had come to West Bengal. The population was 44 million. Of this number about 2 million were unemployed. I would say that that would be an extremely high percentage of the work force because a large number of that 44 million were children because as is well known these families have large numbers of children. 
There is also the problem of land hunger. Most of the unsettled land up to the time of partition had been settled by an active programme of the Indian Government to try to settle post-partition refugees. So there is practically no land left to give to these refugees. As has been mentioned by previous speakers in this debate there are enormous political problems in this area, problems not of the same order as we have here. Our problems are nothing compared to those in West Bengal where political violence is just the order of the day every day. These are the great problems facing West Bengal and they were present even before the refugees started to come over the border. These problems have been exacerbated by this sudden influx of 9 million refugees. Ultimately it will not just be a question solely of providing more aid, although this is very important, but a political solution must be found. In my view there is only one solution and that is the refugees must go back. 
In what circumstances will they go back? People talk about political settlements. I think that if there is some sort of deal made perhaps between the Awami League and the Government in Islamabad I do not think it would be sufficient to make all the refugees go back. I do not think they will go back until the military withdraws. I do not think the military will withdraw until there is complete independence. That is my own view. It is a conclusion I have reluctantly come to but I think it is an inescapable one. I am not saying that the Australian Government should intervene and necessarily recognise the Government of Bangla Desh, but I do not think we should put anything in the way of complete independence eventually coming to the people of East Pakistan or East Bengal. However, I think there are positive things that we can do. We have to try to achieve a political solution but this will not be an end to the problem because there are enormous problems in East Pakistan. Even if we can get the refugees or most of the refugees back into East Pakistan there will still be tremendous problems in resettling them and helping all the war victims, including those people who never went across the border into India in the first place. 
But there are other things that we can do and I have in mind something at the diplomatic level. I think we should try to influence our American allies. We have been rather unquestioning allies of the United States in recent years and I think it is about time that we used our good offices to try to influence them to take a more rational course that would be not only in our interests but would be in India's interest and in the interest of the United States. I sometimes despair to think how blind the United States is in its own policies towards India at the moment. It is rather appropriate that I have with me a letter which I received today from a friend of mine in Delhi. I will briefly quote from that letter. It reads: 
We failed to understand the sermons of restraint by the big powers, particularly the Nixon administration, who are supplying the arms to the military junta in West Pakistan and aiding the refugees also, though Indian public opinion bore a strong resentment against such a double cross policy. Still, we hail and appreciate the role played by  Senator Kennedy  and other senators and congressmen. 
I think this is something we should do. We ought to be able to use our good offices to try to persuade the Americans to change course. I believe the Americans are making the same mistake as they did with Vietnam. They are prepared to disregard the interests of particular countries in the interests of some abstraction which they refer to as global strategy'. I think that if they looked at the human problems first and this vague notion of global strategy last it would be very much better for the US, for us and certainly for everybody in this area. 
I think also that the Australian Government should stop pussyfooting about its attitude towards the trial of Sheik Mujibur Rahman in Islamabad. As has been mentioned, I think quite appropriately by those who presented petitions, I do not think it is enough for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to call upon the Government of Pakistan to exercise magnanimity and compassion. I think it could do a lot more and say: 'There is no doubt about it. We regard Sheik Mujibur Rahman as the rightfully elected Prime Minister of all Pakistan and certainly of East Pakistan, and the Awami League as the rightfully elected government.' There is so much more we could do. I would like to see Australia carry out a peace offensive in this area. Why do we have to be so much concerned with the actual Indian Ocean? When we are talking about the Soviet Union Navy sailing its ships up and down the Indian Ocean we get terribly excited. Surely the important thing is the countries on the periphery of the Indian Ocean. 
I think that we could be far more constructive in helping those countries and in helping our own interests - in our own security. In our own security we could be carrying out a peace offensive to help these countries. I think this would do a lot more good for Australia than all this sabre rattling about building an $80m naval base at Cockburn Sound or purchasing destroyers at $70m or $80m. It is just absurd. 
My suggestion would be a much better form of defence. All I can say is this: The money would be much better spent and our interests would be much better served for the future. Honourable members should forget some of their old dogmas. If the Government does not send a delegation I would like to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  go over and have a look at this situation himself. The heads of voluntary organisations have done this. Major-General Cullen, the head of Austcare and in charge of voluntary help to India, went and had a look. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is in charge of this Government's foreign aid. Why does not he go over and take a look? I think it should be required viewing. If he had a look I am sure he would have much more decided views about what we need to do in our own interests. 
We need to do it not only for humanitarian reasons but also because of the war that, could occur between the 2 powers if something is not done. It is an extremely dangerous situation when we have Russia on one side and China on the other. It is something we cannot discount. While we have the problem of increasing frustration and the increasing inability of the Indian Government to overcome this tremendous problem, there is a great danger that out of frustration they might resort to war. This is something we do not want to happen and it is something we must do all in our power to avoid in the interests of humanity. Also it is something we should do as an affluent country and in our own interests. Finally I would like to see an end to all this secrecy about the so-called diplomatic activity in which the Government is engaging in order to keep peace between the 2 sides. I would like to know what this diplomatic activity is. What is going on? We have no evidence that the Government is doing anything. There has not been any positive evidence of any benefit coming from what it has done. I do not like to criticise Ministers personally but I think the effort of the present Minister for Foreign Affairs has been quite insipid and pretty putrid. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
How many students at each technical high school in the Electoral Division of Kingston have (a) sat for and (b) been awarded Commonwealth technical scholarships in each year since the technical scholarships scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students have (i) sat for and (ii) been awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships, in each school in the Electoral Division of Kingston, in each year since the scholarship scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does his Department inspect the standard  of  food and living conditions of Aborigines employed at Victoria River Downs and Wave Hill Stations. 
If so, have the conditions and food been found to be satisfactory. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Kingston respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based on arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 bc repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I want to make a plea to the Government to make a more sober approach to the important question of the Indian Ocean. Firstly, the Government has, I believe, overestimated the size of the Soviet naval presence there. Secondly, it has inflated the significance of that presence. Finally, by its response of sabre rattling it is clearly taking an approach which is at best irrelevant and at worst harmful to the security of this country. First of all I refer to the size of the Soviet presence. In this House on 14th October the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  said that the Russians have more than a score of surface warships and an unknown number of submarines in the area. I believe that his authority was 'Jane's Fighting Ships'. However, I would like to draw upon the authority of a  Mr Spiers,  the Director of the Bureau of PoliticoMilitary Affairs of the United States State Department. This Bureau is the section responsible for the Indian Ocean.  Mr Spiers  stated: 
We have some figures of the most recent Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean and as of now it consists of about 4 ships. As of July 20th, the Soviet presence consists of  t  destroyer, 1  LST  and 2 fleet minesweepers. The Soviet presence fluctuates but that is the most recent reading unless my defence colleagues have something more up to date. 
So there appears to be considerable uncertainty as to the accuracy of the Minister's figures. What is the significance of the Soviet naval presence? Again I quote from the evidence given by  Mr Spiers  to a Congressional committee. He said: 
Specifically, we would be concerned if Chinese or Soviet influence in the area extended to control of the water areas or significant parts of the littoral. We do not envisage an immediate threat of this nature, however. 
He went on to say: 
Therefore, there appears to be no requirement at this time for us to feel impelled to control, or even decisively influence any part of the Indian Ocean or its littoral, given the nature of our interests there and the current level of Soviet and Chinese involvement. We consider, on balance, that our present interests are served by normal commercial, political and military access. 
So the Indian Ocean situation seems to he causing enormous concern to the Australian Government, but this feeling does not appear to be shared by the Government of the United States. Let us also remember that the Soviet Union has some perfectly legitimate interests in the Indian Ocean. It is from there that they get about one-third of their fishing catch, and it is of enormous importance to Russian shipping itself. It should not be forgotten that al least during the winter ships going between European Russia and the Pacific ports such as Vladivostok must traverse the Indian Ocean. If these facts are considered, the Soviet naval presence is clearly modest indeed. In fact, its 4 ships reported on 20th July seem to be comparable with the United States presence of 3 ships. Furthermore, the Russians have no bases in the Indian Ocean, even in Indian ports, and India is the country which has just signed a treaty with the Soviet Union. Only last week  Mr Gandhi  told a meeting of the Royal Institute of International Affairs that India had no intention of offering military bases to the Soviet Union. So it is quite clear that in measuring our response to the Soviet presence we are responding to something whose size and significance has been greatly over-stated by this Government. 
The reaction of the Government has been to make sabre rattling gestures; we are going to build an $80m naval base at Cockburn Sound, we are going to acquire a couple of dozen destroyers at $70in or $80m a pop and the Prime Minister has apparently cajoled the United States Government into saying that United States vessels will use the facilities at Cockburn Sound. What a disastrous policy. What a short-sighted policy. Surely there could not be a quicker way to start an escalation of arms build-up than by such a hawkish response. Why does our policy always have to be defence first and diplomacy last? 
Let us compare the attitude of the Australian Government with that of the other governments in the Indian Ocean area. I would like to quote from a statement issued after a conference of non-aligned nations at Lusaka in Zambia in September 1970. It said: 
A declaration should be adopted calling upon all States to consider and respect the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace. 
The Government of Ceylon has repeatedly stated its interest in declaring the Indian Ocean a zone of peace. This was propounded by the Ceylonese Government at the Commonwealth Prime Ministers Conference earlier this year and supported by the Governments of both India and Pakistan. In fact, the Ceylonese Government submitted this as a formal proposal to the United Nations General Assembly in its current session. The subject of declaring the Indian Ocean a zone of peace was the main subject of the address of the Ceylonese Prime Minister,  Mrs Bandaranaike,  to the United Nations General Assembly. The Indian Government is clearly very interested in the proposal, as shown in the Soviet-Indian communique of 30th September which I unfortunately do not have time to quote. 
What is the Australian Government's response to all this? A naval base, gun boats and trying to push the United States Navy into a commitment, but not a word on the subject of a zone of peace. Why the silence? The answer, of course, is that the Government is scared stiff of the Democratic Labor Party. I implore the Government to disregard short term electoral considerations and make a genuine move for world peace. This is the age of nuclear weapons, remember, and there can be only one policy for wars in this day and age; that is to prevent them from taking place. 
But I want to ask one more question to take this argument a stage further. What could be the significance of naval commitments anyway? Even if there were a substantial Soviet force in the Indian Ocean, what would it mean? I think it is time that we seriously questioned the thesis that you can exert great influence on governments by deploying gun boats on trackless wastes of ocean. The battle for influencing people's minds depends on whether you can also help raise people's standards of living. As far as Australia is concerned, we must seek to do what we can for peace in the Indian Ocean, not by floating ships on it but by helping the countries around it. 
For about the fourth time this session I ask the Government to act in the interests of the security of the area in which we live by taking real diplomatic initiatives, particularly having in mind India and Pakistan which are going through a particularly critical period. This is what we should be doing to try and advance the security of our nation. By continuing to cave in to DLP blackmail the Government is acting against the national interest and against the interests of world peace. If the Government will play its part to achieve world peace and disarmament, I am sure everybody in this House will support it. 
Over the years man seems to have developed a conditioned reflex of settling differences by bloodshed. I think we can no longer afford this. I think it is time our altitudes on defence were completely rethought. I conclude by drawing attention to this paradox: We are faced with the strong possibility of disaster from a world ecological crisis, but little danger from foreign invasion. Where therefore is the logic in spending $ 1,200m annually in preparing for imminent invasion but nothing, almost literally nothing, on defending ourselves from ecological disaster? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Austraiian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to spend my few minutes speaking about the proposals of the Australian Labor Party to establish a dental health care scheme. I wish to speak on this subject because the Government in its 22 years of office has committed many sins of omission and commission, but I can think of no greater sin of omission, certainly on the domestic front, than its total failure to do anything to try to improve the dental health of the Australian community. At the moment there could hardly be a greater need amongst Australian people and particularly Australian children than in the field of dental care. Many people - perhaps one could say the majority of people - do not get adequate dental treatment. Some do not get treatment at all because they simply cannot afford it. Some of them do manage to find the money to have dental treatment but for those it is a very great hardship indeed. 
Apart from financial limitation, a further problem exists. This is that some people simply lack the motivation to seek adequate dental care. A study was done on this matter in South Australia at the Queen Victoria Hospital. The study concerned the dental health of women attending the antenatal clinic there. It was found that fewer than one-third of the women were receiving regular dental care, but of those, one-half not receiving regular care had on interest in the state of their teeth. Ninety-two per cent of all patients needed treatment for gingival inflammation and 96 per cent had decayed teeth. 
So apart from the financial problems, a great problem is the lack of concern that some people have for the state of their dental health. There is no doubt that because of this the people who are affected more than any other group are the poor. They are the ones who miss out on economic grounds. Unfortunately it seems to be from that group that the people who lack the motivation to seek proper dental treatment come. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the difference between the different socioeconomic groups in the standard of dental health. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111110_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

The criterion adopted was based on the occupational status of the fathers of the children at different schools in South Australia. There is quite a significant difference in the dental health of children at the schools in the high socioeconomic group - that is, in the affluent suburbs - compared with those in the poor suburbs. What is the answer to this very great social problem? I suppose it is tempting to talk about voluntary dental insurance, but I think this is something that must be firmly resisted. I am not denouncing completely the proposals recently espoused by the Australian Dental Association. If employers want to insure people's dental health I have no objection. There have been examples of this in Australia already where it has worked quite well. One example is at Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty Ltd at Port Pirie. They have a scheme which provides dental health insurance, to which each employee contributes a small amount each week. This is a good idea. But I do not think that this should be regarded as the basis for a scheme for dental health care in the community because, if the Government decides to come in and say: 'We will back this system of voluntary dental insurance' I think we will have the same terrible difficulties we have had with this Government's voluntary health insurance scheme. 
It was remarkable to hear the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  eulogising the voluntary health insurance scheme. I hope that no-one will be tempted to try to do the same thing in the sphere of dental health. A voluntary dental insurance scheme would mean the same spiralling costs as are involved in the health insurance scheme. The so-called improvements to the health scheme in 1970 have been described as a golden handshake lo the doctors. We do not want the same thing to happen in dental health. A voluntary scheme would be inequitable in that it would place an undue burden on people earning low incomes. The dental health of the community would not improve as a result of it. The people who will be left out are the poor and the apathetic - very often that means the poor as well. 
So the answer to this problem does not lie in having a system of voluntary dental health insurance. The answer lies, as it does in every sphere of health, in preventive medicine. In dental health this means we must reduce the incidence and prevalence of dental disease. This is why the Australian Labor Party's proposals for dental health are based on preventive dental health and dental education particularly for school children. Of course, it is to be hoped that all State governments will fluoridate the water but this is up to those State governments. The Australian Labor Party proposes to establish school dental services throughout Australia and to provide grants to the State governments so that a comprehensive system of school dental services can be established in all schools throughout Australia. A scheme was begun in South Australia by the Walsh Labor Government some 3 or 4 years ago. It is similar to, but not identical to the scheme operating in the Australian Capital Territory. We would like to see this extended to all children throughout Australia. The system consists basically of school dental therapists- 
Sifting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The philosophy behind the use of dental therapists is threefold. Firstly, Australia lacks sufficient dentists. Secondly, most children's dental requirements are of a limited nature and a fully qualified dentist is not required; in fact, using dentists alone would be a wasteful employment of highly skilled manpower. Thirdly, the dental therapists, after an examination and diagnosis by a dentist, can provide a first class standard of restorative and preventive treatment. The dentist's wider knowledge and skills are thereby extended to a far greater number of children when he directs therapists to perform routine clinical procedures. The Australian Labor Party hopes to establish dental therapists in school dental clinics in every school in Australia. Their function would be to carry out the control of dental disease by treatment and secondly, but more importantly, they would be directed towards prevention by education and motivation of children to patterns of behaviour that are favourable to good dental health. Then, of course, education in good diet and hygiene is of first importance in the work of these dental therapists. 
As the scheme progressed we would expect the standard of dental health in the children's community throughout Australia to improve considerably. As a result of that we would be able to extend it to cover secondary school children and, perhaps even more importantly, pre-school children as well. I need hardly add that the benefits of such a scheme would be even more greatly advanced in those communities which chose to fluoridate their water supplies. The other important part of the proposal of the Labor Party is that we would provide dental treatment for pensioners, for bedridden people who cannot go and see a dentist and certain other socially and physically disadvantaged groups. 
The cost of these proposals is not great. The preliminary costing that I carried out when presenting this proposal to the conference of the Australian Labor Party at Launceston earlier this year showed that the annual running costs would be $45m with a non-recurring capital cost of something like $85m. As I stated in the paper, the figures are not really said to be utterly infallible. It is only a rough estimate. It could even be that the figures are somewhat lower than I previously anticipated. But at any rate this figure is certainly modest when we compare it with what Australians spend already on dental care. We spend $100m a year on public and private dental services and these reach only a small proportion of the population. It is not really doing anything to improve the community standard of health unlike the policy which will be implemented by the Australian Labor Party after the next Federal election. Our policy is to do something to really improve the community standard of dental health. The Government has done nothing for community dental health over the past 22 years, and for that reason deserves to be roundly condemned. 
Consideration interrupted. 

 - Mr Speaker, harking back to the States Grants (Housing) Bill, I wish to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The present proposals will mean some improvement compared with the previous 5 year Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and it is for this reason that they have the support of the South Australian Government and of the South Australian Housing Trust. My own misgivings about the Bill do not concern the contents of the Bill itself, but rather what the Bill does not contain, and I shall deal with this matter a little later. Speaking for my own State of South Australia, I believe that the 5 year allocation will enable the South Australian Governments programme of intensive building activity in the public sector to continue. The building industry in general in South Australia is in a healthy condition. I refer to a document which was placed on my desk last night entitled Commonwealth Treasury Information Bulletin' for October. It mentions the healthy state of the building industry in South Australia especially since the Dunstan Labor Government took office in the middle of 1970. This is a very fine tribute to the Dunstan Government in South Australia. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  sneers at this, but I invite him lo look at the figures on page 8 of the document to which I have referred. As I have said, this is a very fine tribute to the Dunstan Government. If I might digress for a moment, I would like to support the views of the South Australian Premier who said that conditions in our States - indeed in all States - will decline very markedly unless the Commonwealth Government takes action to stimulate the economy. 
The most important activity of State housing trusts and State housing commissions is to provide housing for people with limited incomes. The fundamental problem today is that housing costs, especially outside the public sector, are greater than people can afford. The South Australian Housing Trust has carried out some very interesting and valuable investigations of incomes of families obtaining rental housing. I have here the result of the most recent study covering the 5 week period to 1st October 1971, in which 412 families were allotted rental homes. 1 ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the result of this study. 
The study for September revealed - 43 or 10.9 per cent earning $40 or less per week 147 or 35.7 per cent earning $50 or less per week 247 or 60 per cent earning $60 or less per week 324 or 78.6 per cent earning $70 or less per week 340 or 82.5 per cent earning $75 or less per week 72 or 17.5 per cent earning more than $75 per week 
 This income study is even more staggering when it is realised that it excludes pensioner flats and includes the Housing Trust's more 'affluent customers. 
The latest annual report of the South Australian Housing Trust gives an account of an income study of families accommodated in rental or rental-purchase houses over the last 18 months. The study dealt with family incomes and incomes of male heads of families. In the figures on family incomes, the greatest concentration was in the $51 to $60 a week bracket. More than 46 per cent of the families earned $60 or less a week. For male heads of families the commonest income was $42.50, and 62 per cent of male heads of families were earning between $41 and $60 a week. The figures of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics reveal that during the period covered by the survey, average earnings per male unit were around $72 a week. So the conclusion which the South Australian Housing Trust drew is not a surprising one. The Trust stated:  lt is obvious that the vast majority of families applying to the Trust for assistance cannot afford to buy their own houses, or even pay the relatively high rents that prevail today. Even as far as the Trust is concerned, with the increased interest rates and the higher costs being incurred in the construction of houses, it cannot fix an economic rent for its new houses within the capacity of the majority of its applicants. 
The South Australian Government has had to overcome this problem by using capital funds to subsidise rents for low income earners. In other words, the rise in interest rates has been such that the Housing Agreement money, lent at an interest rate of 1 per cent below the bond rat;, slid required that an excessive rent would have to be charged if that loan were to be serviced. So the rent had to be subsidised further. Notwithstanding all this, however, the South Australian Housing Trust still incurred a loss of $275,000 on its rental operations in the last financial year. In this context I point o-it that this loss would not be covered by the non-recurring grant of S6.25m being provided in this Bill to enable State housing authorities to reduce rents. The annual allocation is SI. 25m, of which South Australia is to receive 12.2 per cent. According to my arithmetic, this works out at just over $150,000 a year, which would not cover the last annual deficit on the existing rental accommodation. It is a start, but it is not enough, and it will probably mean an even greater shortfall over the next 5 years. 
But as 1 mentioned earlier, cost of housing outside the public sector are now so great in relation to people's earnings that a very great strain is being placed on the shoulders of State housing authorities People are being required to switch to the public sector in order to obtain homes. The 1970 annual report of the South Austraiian Housing Trust contains some very interesting points. In one section it states: 
The current rate of applications for rentalpurchase homes is higher than at any time in the last 3 years. During the past year, 2,497 applications for rental-purchase homes were received. . . . 
In relation to rental accommodation the report states: 
In the year ending 30th June. 1970. 10,037 applications for rental accommodation were received. For the first time in the Trust's history, the number of rental applications registered exceeded 10,000. Since the 1965-66 financial year, the average number of applications received per week has risen from 125 to 197. 
This pattern has been maintained in the last financial year. According to the latest report, the number of applications for rental accommodation exceeded 10,000, and 2,336 applications for rental-purchase homes were received. This is something which 1 am sure all my South Australian colleagues, and probably my colleagues from the other States, would also know. It is that there is tremendous pressure on- the public housing authorities for low income housing. We all know of the Long waiting time that people have to suffer because of the shortage of housing in the public sector of the economy. As the South Australian Premier has indicated, the new arrangement will assist the Housing Trust of South Australia in its programme of accommodating low income earners. Previously, housing was made available at the equivalent of 2 per cent below the bond rate, but only by diverting capital funds. Under the new arrangement, it will be possible now to subsidise new rental accommodation to the equivalent of 2 per cent without having to reduce the volume of building by diversion of capital. 
Having said that the programme is acceptable to the South Australian Government, 1 would like to mention one or two misgivings which I have of my own. Perhaps I am unduly suspicious, but I am at a loss to work out why the Commonwealth Government has chosen this particular method of altering the Housing Agreement. The new proposals were drafted without consultations with the State governments, and I feel obliged to ask the Minister what his motive is. I am definitely not satisfied with the explanation given in the Minister's second reading speech. I cannot believe that the Minister is serious when he says that the assistance will now be more readily identified. I think I can say without fear of contradiction that this new arrangement is very complicated. So I want to know what the Government is up to, and I ask the Minister to answer this point when he replies. 
Frankly, I suspect that this may be the first sign of the Commonwealth Government's intention to vacate the field of low cost housing. The break has been made with providing housing money at low interest rates and non-repayable grants maybe the sweetener. I hope that the Commonwealth is nol going to say in 5 years time that there will be no more money for subsidising housing. I hope that the Commonwealth does not tell the States in 1976 that the bond rate of interest is to prevail because the States accepted it in 1971 and that from 1976 the State governments can subsidise housing out of their own funds. 
This may sound far fetched, but this is precisely what the States are now being told in relation to education. They are being told: 'Finance the schools yourselves'. Perhaps 1 am too suspicious, but the wording of the Minister's explanation sounds suspicious. 1 ask the Minister to give a guarantee that further assistance will be forthcoming in 1976, especially earmarked to assist low cost housing. That is, of course, in the unlikely event of the Liberal-Country Party coalition still being in office in 1976. 
I would like to know about the future of the $6,250,000 grant. This is a straight out social service payment to help poor people pay their rent and it deserves support. But what happens after 1976? Is this grant just another sweetener to buy the States off while the Commonwealth vacates the field of providing housing at less than the bond rate of interest? 
I would like to address myself now to the broad question of housing policy. The first aspect is the rising . cost of land. I believe that this is the most important aspect requiring attention by the Commonwealth Government, lt requires that assistance be given to the State governments to acquire broad acres so that land can be developed by or under the supervision of public authorities so that the proceeds from the sale of the land or, better still, from the lease of the land can be used for further acquisition. In other words, it would be a revolving fund, that is, a once-and-for-all outlay. If this can be done for Canberra, why cannot it be done elsewhere? I refer to a question I asked on this matter of the previous Prime Minister, the present right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  last year. I said: 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, by referring to the fact thai the city of Canberra as well as providing an excellent example nf metropolitan planning, has stable and even falling land prices. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is mainly due to the acquisition, subdivision and planned development of land by the Government, or rather by a Government agency? Does die Government propose lo pursue the same policies in the development of Canberra's satellite city of Tuggeranong? Does the Government consider that similar action by State governments is any less desirable? If so, does the 
Government consider that the States have the resources to carry out such planned development? If not, is the Government willing to discuss with the State governments the feasibility of setting up revolving funds so that the State governments can acquire lands for urban development which will be both orderly and free from land speculation? 
I feel that  Mr Gorton's  reply was a flippant one and does not bear repeating at this stage. But I ask the Commonwealth now to look at this question seriously. I know that the present Minister for Housing has certain phobias about public acquisition of land. He calls this 'socialism'. Whether it is socialism or not, if it is good enough for the citizens of Canberra, it is good enough for other citizens. It does not mean centralism. It means making a onceandforall outlay to help State governments buy land to develop in the community interest. 
This problem is doubly urgent with the pressing need for decentralisation. There has been a lot of talk about this in recent years and the need for action is now becoming urgent. I refer to the 'First Report of the Task Force on The Price of Land' by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. It points out in the case of Adelaide that figures cited by a firm of subdividers show: 
In  1962 there were 23,000 serviced lots and 40,000 unserviced lots in the Adelaide metropolitan area.  In  1970 only 3,000 serviced lots were created but 7,000 were consumed. Now there are only 8,000 vacant serviced lots in existence. This represents one year's supply of lots; and not all of these are necessarily available for purchase. Some concern was expressed in Adelaide that, unless action is taken, a large and rapid increase in prices may occur in the near future. 
So I suggest that urgent Commonwealth assistance is needed to help buy the broad acres for the establishment of a new growth centre in South Australia. I believe that the Commonwealth must act now on this matter on 3 broad fronts. Firstly, it must act to help State governments to find the finance to purchase the broad acres to set up new growth centres. Secondly it must help with the decentralisation of Commonwealth Government departments. I have particularly in mind the National Biological Standards Laboratory which I believe now is to be consolidated into one site. I do not see necessarily why this should be in Canberra. That is just an example. Thirdly, I believe the 
Commonwealth should make available the know-how of the National Capital Development Commission to assist in co-ordinating all services for economic and efficient development of new growth centres. In my view, new growth centres should not be established too far from existing cities, otherwise it will be too difficult to resist political pressures to all continued development on the fringes of the big cities. The new cities should be distinct from the old, but close enough for commuting by rapid rail or road transport. I believe that the best site for such a centre in South Australia is in the McLaren Vale area. Another matter on which 1 believe urgent Commonwealth action is required is in the broad area of interest rates. 1 do not have time to cover this area. It has been mentioned by other speakers on the Opposition side. 
I would like to deal now with the second part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid which concerns, broadly, assistance to the States Ibr urban renewal. The first need here is for research. I remind the Minister that at the Housing Ministers' Conference in 1967 the then South Australian Minister for Housing, the late Mi Frank Walsh, moved that the Commonwealth be requested to provide $lm for the States to investigate housing areas requiring renewal. This motion was carried unanimously by the State Ministers for Mousing and the then Commonwealth Minister for Housing, the former  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, agreed to submit it to the Government. However, no money has been forthcoming for this purpose, even though I understand the matter has been raised at Housing Ministers' conferences in the meantime. I ask the Minister to indicate when he replies whether he is prepared to forward these proposals to the Government. 
I have here a copy of the speech on legislation introduced into the South Australian Parliament yesterday. The South Australian Premier mentioned that a significant Commonwealth provision had been sought towards the capital cost and capital losses arising from urban renewal. This question of urban renewal has enormous social implications, as we all know. I am sure that no-one, or almost no-one, wants a repetition of the high rise buildings that  ure  now blotting the landscape in the inner suburbs of Melbourne. I have had an opportunity to have a look at these at fairly close hand. I. remember in 1966, [ think it was. I bad to do a locum for a general practitioner in the suburb of Footscray. I had to visit some high rise areas there. I felt that they were absolutely horrifying. I hope that this sort of social experiment will not be repeated anywhere else in Australia and I hope never again in Melbourne either. 1 would like finally to draw the attention of the House to an account in 'The Review' of last Sunday. I suppose the Minister would not read that paper. He might regard that as a rather naughty magazine. But there is a report there by one Andrew Burbridge the social policy officer employed on a series ot housing policy studies by the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Fitzroy Ecumenical centre. He discusses Government loans to encourage rehabilitation of existing inner suburban homes. This report indicates that if existing houses bad been acquired and rehabilitated more people would have been rehoused in Melbourne between 1965 and 1970 which is the period during which the high rise' building programmes were implemented. Not only would that have happened but also costs would have been lower. 
For these reasons I particularly commend the honourable member for Reid for the wording of the amendment that he has moved. 1 refer specifically to the second part of the amendment which states that assistance should be provided to the States to enable them to acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by rental or sale, 1 support the resolution by the State Ministers for Housing for assistance along these lines. 1 support the amendment most enthusiastically. T hope that the House also will do so. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Have certain members serving in the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to national service now completed their C.M.F. obligations as a result of amendments to the National Service Act reducing the period of service from 6 to 5 years. 
Did a number of members continue to serve beyond the obligatory period because they were not notified that the period of service had been reduced. 
If so, what was the cau.se of the delay in notification. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able  to  escape from their usual environment  to  rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Bills now before the House embody the new measures which are central to the new financial relationship between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments which evolved at the Premiers Conference in June this year. I want to discuss education not only because it is a matter that is primarily the concern of the States under our Constitution but also because the Commonwealth Government has claimed on a number of occasions that it is as a result of these new financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States that the State governments are now able to meet their commitments in education. I enter this debate to protest at the failure of the Commonwealth Government to make a specific commitment to education, apart from the circumscribed causes, such as libraries and science blocks, to which it gives money. It is now clear that the Commonwealth has shelved the findings of the national survey of educational needs. I would have thought that if the Commonwealth Government was sufficiently interested to find out by means of a survey what really are the educational needs of the States it would be concerned to see that the findings of the survey would be acted upon. 
The findings of the survey are now well known - that under the CommonwealthState relationships which existed when the survey was carried out the State governments would have needed an extra $ 1,443m over and above what they could reasonably have expected to have found from their own sources of revenue. This $ 1,443m would have had to be found for the 5-year period 1971-75 to finance the reasonably anticipated educational needs of the States. Now through all the double talk the simple fact has finally emerged that the Commonwealth has no intention of acting on the findings. One could be excused for thinking that if there is a shortfall in State funds disclosed by the survey the Commonwealth would provide the necesasry funds to bridge the gap. Otherwise, why carry out the survey at all? But it is not to be. There is to be no specific allocation of funds for those educational needs. The history of stalling and gobbledegook since the survey was first launched strongly suggests that the Commonwealth Government never had any intention to implement the recommendations of the survey. Let us look at the recent history of this matter. When he was Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  spoke at a well attended and publicised meeting in Adelaide on 16th June 1971 and said that all the Commonwealth Government was waiting on was further information on priorities from a couple of State governments. Let us contrast that with what the present Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in this House on 5th October 1971. He said: 
In September 1970, the Commonwealth sought further information from State education departments on their capital needs. The collection of this information took some time - the last of it was forwarded to my predecessor in March this year - but it was brought together and considered by the Commonwealth before it met with the Premiers in June 1971. 
It was considered before it met with the Premiers. So the present Minister said then that all the information was returned by March 1971. Yet his predecessor said in June, 3 months later, that there was still further information to come. It is quite apparent, therefore, that there was never any intention to act on the findings of the survey. Ministers just say anything that comes into their heads, anything to fob off the critics. It is a history of deceit. Of course, now the Commonwealth Government tries to forget the survey. The present Minister's long statement in this House on 5th October contains no reference - I do not think I am being unfair to him, because I could not find any - to the figure of $l,443m mentioned in the findings of the survey. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has interstate surface mail from Melbourne to Adelaide been carried by road, rather than rail, since 15th September 1971. 
Was the  closing date for tenders  24th September, 1971. 
Who was the successful tenderer and what was the amount quoted. 
From whom were other tenders received and what was the amount quoted in each case. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to the recent increases in Commonwealth nursing home benefit. Is the Minister aware that as from the date of the increased benefit a number of nursing homes raised their fees by a comparable amount? Is the purpose of the nursing home subsidy to overcome the hardship of paying nursing home fees, or is it to enable private nursing homes to remain profitable? Does the Government anticipate that charges in all nursing homes will soon be increased? If so, will the Government subsidy again be raised? Does the Government ever intend directly to enter the field of nursing home care in order to provide public nursing home beds for people on limited incomes? 
I want to speak for only a few minutes and make a small contribution as I was certainly the person who started the whole business off by calling a quorum. I cannot agree with those honourable members who regard this as a trival matter. I think that if they had been subjected to a campaign of the kind that was directed against me by the morning newspaper in South Australia, which attempted to discredit me as much as possible as a result of what happened, they would agree that this is not a light matter. I think most people in Australia who think about politics do regard the counting out of the House earlier this year for the first time for many years as a serious matter. I believe it is a matter that must be taken very seriously by all members of this Parliament. The honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  did suggest earlier that this was part of our job, that people expect the Opposition to try to close the Parliament down if it can. I am sure that this is not what  Mr Reid  intended to convey when he wrote the article in the 'Daily Telegraph'. Surely he is not going to try to tell us that he was trying to praise the Opposition for being alert and doing its job in counting the House out. Everybody here knows that the object of  Mr Alan  Reid in writing the article was to try to discredit the Opposition. 
I might just put the record straight because 1 think that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  might have misrepresented things when he said this was deliberately brought about. For the information of honourable members I point out that on the day that the quorum could not be formed, 1 was sitting here with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  1 called the quorum with the .sole intention of trying to get an audience for the honourable member for Sturt. There was no intention on my part to try. to close the House down. I think an honourable member mentioned the fact that there was some surprise on my part. I think that is probably fairly true. I was extremely surprised, lt was not my intention to close the House down at all. lt is not my custom to call quorums. I had not called one before and T will probably not call one again. But it was a serious matter as far as I was concerned and there was certainly an effort by the Adelaide 'Advertiser' to represent it as a very serious matter. It said that T was trying to close the Parliament down. 
 I suppose it is rather amusing to think about it now because the photograph of me that appeared in the newspaper made it look as if I had spent the night in the cells. The photograph had been taken a couple of months before when I had returned from India. I had been held up by Customs at Tullamarine because I had been to an area where there had been foot and mouth disease. The Customs took my clothing. They took everything except my shirt, trousers, shoes und socks. They even took my razor blade. When I reached the Adelaide Airport I had more than a 5 o'clock shadow and no clean clothing. I looked as if I had been dragged through an anaesthetic machine backwards or something like that. This photograph was not published immediately after I had returned from India, but this photograph of the convict-looking person appeared the day after the quorum could not be formed on the front page of the 'Advertiser' as the bloke who had successfully closed the Par liament down. I think that honourable members would also appreciate the situation if I pointed out to the House  that  a representative of one of the Adelaide television stations, meeting me at  the  airport, asked me: 'Do you really think that parliamentarians' salaries increases are ready warranted in view of what went on venterday?' 
I want to refer to only one other matter because I believe it is important. I want to relate my remarks to something which v.,is mentioned bv the honourable member lot Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who is lot here at the moment - and I think that other honourable members, including the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said the same sort of thing afterwards - that we should take no action because  Mr Reid  made the error in good faith. I point out that this attitude is completely inconsistent, as far as I can see. with the attitude that was expressed during the hearing of the Privileges Committee which inquired into a letter which was published in the 'Australian' on 13th September 1971. The letter was written by a person rejoicing in the name of P. Wintle, who wrote to the editor of the 'Australian' saying that members of Parliament accept bribes. At that time the report of the Privileges Committee was that the editor of the 'Australian' did not agree with the substance of the letter and that he believed it to be without foundation. Nonetheless the members of the Privileges Committee decided that the editor of the Australian' should have to retract and apologise. The exception was the honourable member for Eden-Monaro - and I will give him credit - who was at least con;sistent in the view that be took on that occasion. On page 14 of the report of the Privileges Committee the honourable member for Eden-Monaro moved the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring)  oe  omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this Committee recommends to the House of Representatives that it would best consult its own dignity by taking no further action in respect of the publication of the letter to the editor, signed by P. Wintle of Mundingburra, Queensland.'. 
So at least the honourable member is consistent when he says that we should take no action in matters like this. But contrast this with the attitudes of the honourable member for Diamond Valley and the honourable member for Bradfield. In a previous matter when their own honour and reputation were at stake they supported a resolution that the editor of the 'Australian' should retract and apologise. But when the reputation of only parliamentarians on this side of the House is at stake they could not give a damn. 
I enter this debate to discuss the last sentence in the Opposition's amendment. It reads: 
The House regrets that the Government has not made provision to extend unemployment assistance to alleviate problems of growing unemployment in metropolitan areas with particular emphasis on the problems and placement of school leavers which can be accentuated as  a  result of poor employment conditions in the country areas.  1 am particularly concerned that the present measure, which admittedly is better than many of its type,, is based on an inaccurate diagnosis. The treatment is wrong, it is inadequate and the funds will be inappropriately applied. I would like to see a comprehensive programme extending over the whole economy because the problem in cities is a very great one, not just in terms of straight-out unemployment but in terms of under-employment. This is a particular problem in my electorate and in many electorates within the Adelaide metropolitan area where tradesmen in the motor vehicle industry and subsidiary industries have been retrenched. Many of them have got jobs back but they are now on the production line, which means a considerable reduction in their earnings. A great deal needs to be done in the metropolitan areas as well as in the rural areas. One instance which supports this view was brought to my attention only fairly recently. I have heard it mentioned by a fairly reliable source in South Australia that next year the engagement of apprentices will be down by about 33 per cent on the usual intake. This will be due to the stagnation in economy which is the result, of course, of the economic policies of this Government. 
The Government has made a completely erroneous diagnosis of the causes of the present trouble with the economy. Tt believed that after the 6 per cent wage increase which was granted last year there would be an increase in demand from which we might get a demand inflation superimposed on a cost-push inflation. It was this potential or latent excessive demand which had to be controlled and the measures to do so were contained in this year's Budget. However, its assessment of the likely situation was completely wrong. The Government is now trying to say that the increase in savings and the fall in demand will be followed by an increase in demand and that this will happen spontaneously. I do not think this is so. I do not think the fall in demand is an accident. It was brought about by inflationary psychology. 
Business thinks it has to increase prices because it does not know how it will cover costs. So what do business people do? They do not engage people and this partic ularly affects, as I say, apprentices. This is creating a very serious situation. At the same time consumers are frightened about their future employment prospects and so they tend not to spend and everybody tightens up. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  thinks everybody is going to overspend because of cost inflation. Perhaps that might be the logical thing to do because at a time of inflation the value of goods increases relative to the value of money, but the instinctive behaviour of people is not always in their own long term interests. What people are doing as an instinctive reaction is not to spend. As a result we have this stagnation in the economy. It is this psychology that is producing this great increase in savings, and for that reason I believe that the reduction in demand is no accident. I believe that the Government's assessment of the economy was completely incorrect. 
We might ask what needs to he done in the present context, and 1 certainly would agree with those people who say we need the introduction of a supplementary Budget. But at the same time I think we must remember that this does not necessarily mean that we are going to restore full confidence in the economy. We have to remember that economics is not a precise mathematical science. It is really nothing more than an empirical study of past human group behaviour. I do not think we can predict exactly what is going to happen. But my feeling is that this reduction in confidence and in consumer demand might continue even if the economy is given a stimulus by the Government. I think the same thing has happened in the United Kingdom where the government is not applying particularly tight monetary or fiscal policies at the moment. In spite of that people are tightening up and nobody is spending. People are hanging on to their money and there is a rise in savings. I think we have to get right to the root of the problem and that is to control prices. I do not know why the Government backs away from this. 
The Government cannot get at the problem unless it controls prices. If prices are not controlled this allows the Government and the employers to say that wage increases will affect the exporter, the farmer, the pensioner and so on and so forth. The Government is playing the farmer and the pensioner off against the wage earner. But if we have a context of fixed prices I believe that this playing off will not occur. What the wage earner is really seeking is to improve his lot against that of the employer - the profit earner. As far asI and the Labor Party are concerned, that is a highly desirable thing. We will not control the trouble with the economy, nor will we control unemployment until we get down and control prices because it is this inflationary psychology which is resulting not only in great inflation but also ultimately will increase unemployment. I have mentioned the problem of apprenticeships.  I think that perhaps as an emergency measure we might have to do something to assist the intake of apprentices in the forthcoming year, because if the economy does improve for some reason in the near future we might find that apprentices will still not be taken in. The reason for this is that there have been retrenchments of tradesmen in the vehicle building industry in South Australia, and if the industry in up it will be those tradesmen who are taken on first because the apprentices are not immediately productive in the first couple of years of their indentures. So I would think that the chances are that if many of these boys are not taken on as apprentices in the next couple of months they will lose their opportunity of having a skilled occupation throughout their adult  life. I think some emergency programme should be started to help the intake of apprentices. 
But we must look at the whole cause of the trouble and set about controlling prices because this is what really matters. One other example of this psychology is to look at what people feel about the current wave of school leavers and how they are going to find jobs. About a month ago I visited a technical high school in my electorate. The headmaster said to me: 'How am I going to advise parents who are asking whether they should take their children away from school now?' He also said that everybody is so frightened about whether their sons or daughters are going to find employment in December and January that many of them are foregoing the final important part of their secondary education and leaving school in mid-term so that they can get in on the ground floor of the job market before the new year starts. I think this is a very sad state of affairs, but it is a pretty accurate account of how people feel about the state of the economy. 
The main point I want to make is that it is just not sufficient - althoughI acknowledge that relatively speaking the problem of unemployment in rural areas is very great, it is still very great in the cities - to say that it is not just a matter of unemployment. There is also under employment, with people not working in the skills for which they have been trained. But these are the things that need to be done: Apart from the control of commodities and the control of prices, interest rates must be looked at quickly by the Government. I believe that in the present context high interest rates are not deflationary at all - that is if the Government is trying to bring about deflationary policies. I am not sure what the Government is doing at the moment because all that is happening is that high interest rates are being passed on as another cost, and this helps build up the inflationary psychology. 
The final thing that really must be done-I might perhaps even have put this first - is to increase social service benefits, particularly unemployment benefits which are disgracefully low at the present time. I have said that consumer spending is low and this is one of the. things that has caused the Government worry. Surely these are the people who will increase their expenditure if we increase unemployment benefits because it is obligatory for them to spend the increased money that is made available. Many of them are living below the poverty line at the moment and ifwe give them extra money it will not only help them but also will give a fillip to the economy. I know that there are other honourable members who want to enter this debate so I will conclude by saying that I think some emergency assistance needs to be given to the State governments by the Department of Labour and National Service to assist with this great flow of school leavers who will enter the work force in the next couple of months. But most fundamentally we have to control the whole source of the trouble which is inflation. A Labor government will not shrink from the implementation of a system of Commonwealth price control, which is something that the Government has backed away from. We will give it the highest possible priority. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) applications for and (b) winners of Commonwealth secondary scholarships for the last 3 years from (i) Immanuel College, Novar Gardens, (ii) Sacred Heart College, Somerton Park, (iii) Woodlands Church of England Girls' Grammar School, Glenelg, (iv) Glengowrie High School, (v) Brighton Boys' Technical High School, (vi) Brighton High School, (vii) Marymount College, Seacombe Gardens, (viii) Dover Gardens Girls' Technical High School, (ix) Seacombe High School and (x) Christies Beach High School. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon Notice: 
What was the number of (a) applications for and (b) winners of Commonwealth university scholarships for the last 3 years from (1) Immanuel College, Novar Gardens, (ii) Sacred Heart College, Somerton Park, (iii) Woodlands Church of England Girls' Grammar School, Glenelg, (iv) Glengowrie Hish School, (v) Brighton Boys' Technical High School, (vi) Brighton High School, (vii) Marmount College, Seacombe Gardens, (viii) Dover Gardens Girls' Technical High School, (ix) Seacombe High School and (x) Christies Beach High School. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does his Department inspect the standard of food and living conditions of Aborigines employed at Victoria River Downs and Wave Hill Station? 
If so, have the conditions and food found to be satisfactory? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many members were serving in the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to national service on 18th August 1971 when the Prime Minister announced the reduction in service periods. 
How many of these members fulfilled their obligation as at 18th August 1971 as a result of the revised service period. 
What was the average period served beyond 5 years by those members affected by the reduction in obligation due to the delaying factors mentioned in his answer to question No. 4720. (Hansard, 25th November 1971) 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully shows that there are still many refugees in India in urgent need of aid. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government immediately increase Australia's contribution for refugee relief in Bangla Desh by $10 million and take action so that the refugees may return to their homes. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons are on the personal staff of each Minister falling within each category of salary listed in answer to question No. 3411 (Hansard, 24th August 1971, page 655). 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor state to a public meeting in Adelaide on 16th June 1971 that the Commonwealth was awaiting information from certain State governments before acting on the National Survey of Educational Needs? 
Was a letter written on behalf of the Prime Minister on 9th July 1971 to the Brighton Boys' Technical High School Parents' and Friends' Association stating, that the Commonwealth Government believed that, with access to a new field of taxation, the improved grants arrangements agreed to at the June 1970 Premiers' Conference, and the additional financial assistance provided as a result of the recent Premiers' Conference, the States were well placed to meet their financial responsibilities for education and the other services they provide? 
If so, is it now the view of the Commonwealth Government that the transfer of power to levy pay-roll tax to the States has discharged its obligations on the survey? 
Does this represent a change in the attitude of the Government between 16th June and 9th July? 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Have spokesmen for the Government on many occasions blamed industrial disputes on the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke?  Is it not a fact that on many occasions  Mr Hawke  has taken initiatives designed to bring about a resolution of industrial disputes? Is it not a fact that the Minister has never once in his tenure of office taken a single initiative to resolve a dispute? Does this not contrast with the actions of the South Australian 
Minister of Labour and Industry in taking important initiatives in resolving a dispute at the Uniroyal company in South Australia last year and the action of the Minister for Shipping and Transport in this Government on one occasion last year? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to extend the school dental service to all school children in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, how many (a) dental clinics in relation to child population, (b). dentists and (c) dental therapists are considered necessary to extend the service. 
What is the present average capital cost of establishing a school dental clinic in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What is the average annual operating cost of a school dental clinic in the Australian Capital Territory (a) excluding salaries and (b) including salaries. 
What is the estimated annual cost per child, including operating costs and capital repayment, of a comprehensive school dental service in the Australian Capital Territory. 
It is not often that we get a chanceto examine schemes of the Liberal-Country Party Government. This is because it is so unusual for it actually to do anything. The Liberal Party philosophy being what it is, to leave people and events to be over-run by blind market forces, it is rare for any proposals to be presented which intervene and try to help people. The employment training schemes have given us a rare opportunity to look at a Liberal-Country Party Government in practice and what we have seen in this case is a complete failure. I intend to speak mostly about the employment retraining scheme for workers displaced by technological change. This scheme can now be seen for what it really is, a king-sized confidence trick. As the Opposition has pointed out on a number of occasions, there is a need for a lot of attention to be given to the problems of re-education for workers made redundant, but this present so-called scheme of the Government is nothing but a hollow gesture. It is a total failure and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  knows it. For the benefit of those who are not already aware of the fact, I point out that I have received the astounding information from the Minister for Labour and National Service that a total of 2 people throughout Australia are receiving help under this employment re-training scheme and, furthermore, that a further 2 people have been approved for training assistance in the near future. Surely this must be the greatest fraud ever inflicted on the working men and women of Australia. 
When the Minister for Labour and National Service introduced this scheme last year we could have been pardoned for believing that the Government was sympathetic to the problems of workers facing redundancy and that the Government would see them right with their problems. We could have been pardoned for being rather apprehensive, however, when we saw that the appropriation for the whole financial year was to be only $50,000. But I do not think that even the worst pessimist would ever have dreamed that as at a couple of weeks ago there would have been only 2 people receiving assistance under the scheme. What a fraud. What has happened, of course, is that the Government has so defined the meaning of technological change that most people requiring help are ineligible under the scheme. Certainly there are people in Australia who need help but unfortunately the Government has so restricted the definition of those who should get help that most people really requiring help are being excluded from the scheme. 
I referred in this Parliament in the last Budget session to particular problems in the vehicle building industry. Apparently the car manufacturers have made a decision to reduce the frequency of vehicle design from 2-yearly inervals to 5-yearly intervals. The effect of this has been to reduce the need for certain tradesmen within the industry, tradesmen such as pattern makers and tool makers. I would have thought that these men would have benefited from re-training. I would have thought also that they would have come within the definition of those displaced by technological change; yet these men are not eligible. The car companies made a decision about new models which led to retrenchments. But the Government says that this is not technological change. If this is not technological change, what is? The important point is: Why draw such a fine distinction in framing the definition? Men have lost their jobs and they need assistance. Why not help them? It is just complete cynicism to exclude these people from the scheme. I raised this last year in the Parliament and in reply the Minister said: 
What in fact happened in South Australia, as the honourable gentleman is well aware, is that the companies concerned took management decisions which were well within their prerogative to take. 
We can hear him saying it; he is a master of the bon mot. He continued: 
These decisions related to forward development programmes, not to current production schedules. 
What a depressing response from the Minister. Here we are dealing with a very great human problem, of men with greatly reduced security of employment, and the Minister speaks of the situation in the language of the debating club. When we were debating this matter last year the- Minister also said that the matter would be studied. He said he would advise me of any action that would be taken. I am still waiting on advice. Let there be no mistake; there are great human problems here. Many tradesmen have lost their jobs and have been given jobs on the production line in the motor vehicle industry which means a reduction in pay of some $25 to $30 a week. When I made a statement on this matter a few weeks ago I mentioned the case of a Polish-born man who had gone from tradesman's wages down to $49.50 a week. This is what men on the production line get. But his family budget was predicated on an income of tradesman's wages. So when his pay was reduced he could not meet his commitments and he had to sell his house. There must be many such cases. Of course, in the meantime the situation in the car industry has further deteriorated. This is due to Government economic policy and not the car manufacturers, so surely the Government would feel a special responsibility to help these people. But, no, the Government's magnanimity has extended to providing help to 2 people with the promise of help to 2 more. 
This is what the Minister said in his reply. He said: 
Instead ot being concerned that so few have sought re-training, instead of being deplored, it should be a source of satisfaction that technological change has not been the cause of unemployment in Australia to the extent reported in overseas countries. 
What does this mean? It sounds as though I should be going to unemployed people in my electorate and saying: 'Cheer up. You may be unemployed or you may have dropped in income but at least it is not because of technological change'. What a ridiculous position. The Minister knows full well that overseas countries have fully operative schemes. It is simply not feasible that only 4 people in Australia need retraining. The Minister gave figures in his Press statement a couple of weeks ago suggesting that fewer than  per cent of people had been displaced by technological change. Even if it had been only  i  per cent, that represents 20,000 workers in Australia. It is complete humbug to say that we should be pleased that so few people are receiving help under the scheme. I know the Minister is not really pleased about it; if he were he would be boasting about it. 
Honourable members should have seen how I got on trying to get the figures for the people who were being helped under the scheme. It was like trying to draw teeth. I was told that I could not get the figures in the first place because the figures were being processed. Just imagine that. There are 2 people involved and the figures are being processed. We have no cause to be pleased with the fact that there are only 2 people receiving help under this scheme. What we really need is for the whole scheme to be re-examined and expanded. The Minister no doubt will say that many of the men who have been displaced have found placement in other forms of employment. I have no doubt that to some extent that is true. He will also say that in certain cases employers have done the re-training. And I know that that is partly true. Chrysler Australia Limited, which has a plant in my electorate, has re-trained non-tradesmen who are now doing tradesmen's work. However, this does not negate the fact that there are many instances of men who were receiving tradesman's pay being put on the production line or out of work altogether. They are very much worse off and are excluded from this scheme because of the deliberate cynical policy of this Government. I do not want it to be said that I am being entirely destructive in my criticism and I would like to make some suggestions about what should be done to improve the scheme. 
The first thing, of course, is that something has to be done about eligibility under the scheme. We have to re-define 'technological change' so that all these people, such as those I have mentioned in the car industry, will be eligible for help. We should be providing help to anybody who needs re-training, not just to people who have been made redundant by technogical change. What about cases of mergers? Surely people who have been displaced by mergers ought to be eligible, as should the people who are displaced by, say, an alteration in tariff. What about if there are changes in consumer taste? This will put workers out of a job. Surely workers affected should be eligible for re-training. What about when the consumer market becomes saturated - and this might happen sooner than we think - when people get sick of getting a bunch of goodies in exchange for working at an alienating, depressing job for 40 hours a week. So the first thing to be done is that eligibility under the scheme must be altered. The second thing is that the allowance that is being offered must be increased. The maximum amount offered under this scheme is $46.20 a week. Some might argue that this is enough, that it is a lot more than the dole. But it is still not very much and it is much less than most of the retrenched tradesmen were previously receiving. It is not much of an inducement, unless severance pay has been arranged, but I understand that that is still in the air. The allowance must be increased. If a person is expected to undertake a retraining scheme for several months he should not be expected to receive only $46.20 a week. It has to be increased. I am rather attracted to the scheme which obtains in the United Kingdom. A levy is placed on employers to pay for technological change. The money raised by the levy is paid to those employers who are prepared to retrain the workers. 
Another point is that the period of retraining must be altered. A person eligible for retraining receives that retraining for a period of 12 months. Surely thai is not nearly long enough. My friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  will discuss in more detail the rural retraining scheme. Recently, I was asked by the parent of a lad who was applying for help under the scheme: 'What on earth can he learn in 12 months?' What indeed? No limit should be placed on the period of retraining. What is to be lost? It is not as if the community will lose money. The scheme will pay. Cost benefit analyses have established pretty well that rehabilitation and retraining schemes actually pay. They repay manyfold the community's investment in them.  President  Johnson in his Budget message of January 1968 referred to vocational rehabilitation programmes. 
He said: 
This study indicated that the increase in lifetime incomes of participants is many times the rehabilitation cost, confirming previous judgments that this programme merits high priority.  1 am sure that those comments are equally relevant to the matter we are now discussing. Furthermore, something else needs to be done to the scheme. A better method is required of notifying people who are eligible for help. When the scheme was brought out the Department notified employers and the trade unions and left it at that. I would like to see done what 1 am sure the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  would probably do in the employment business which he runs. I understand that it is a family business. He would go out and find the people who are to be affected by redundancy and see what he could do for them. I hope that the Government will see that similar steps are taken under this scheme - that the Department will actively seek the people who will be displaced, and ask each individual: What can we do to help you?' A big load is to be taken on by the Department soon as redundancy affects waterside workers and I hope that steps will be taken in that way. 
Last week I discussed this matter in my electorate and I was told: 'We heard about this scheme a year ago but we have not heard any more about it since'. The scheme is not being adequately advertised. The Government and the Department must go out and seek as far as possible the people who are affected. Time is catching up with me and I will not be able to cover all the aspects I wished to cover. A number of general aspects are associated with the redundancy question. 
In many ways the 35-hour week is a sensitive issue because sooner or later we might get to a stage at which there are just not enough jobs; there will be too many people for the number of jobs available. The only answer will be a snorter working week. I am not saying that that is the answer to the present situation, but sooner or later we may have to face that possibility. In this regard farmers have a perfectly legitimate interest to defend. Their representatives say that a shorter working week may increase costs to farmers. This may be so, but we have to consider the opposite side of the coin. If we do not have a shorter working week we may have people out of work altogether. That possibility has to be weighed against the possibility of increased costs to another section of the community. 1 had hoped to discuss a number of aspects of redundancy, but time is running out. I say to the Minister that if he remains ossified in his conservative, traditional thinking, events will overtake the Australian workers. As far as the employment retraining scheme is concerned, events have already overtaken them. The cynicism of the Government in this matter is completely contemptible. The scheme requires radical upgrading and the Government's approach to redundancy must be brought up to the 20th century. It is not just technology which is changing. All society is changing, and changing rapidly. We can either discard the victims of change or we can do something to help them. If the Liberal Government will not help them it should resign and give way to a government that will. 
 I also want to discuss the fiasco of the Government's health scheme. There is no doubt in the world that the Government has once again completely gone to water over the question of doctors' fees. We can all remember the time when the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  did his best to stand up to the doctors. But we can also remember what happened when the Present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  came into office. There was an immediate capitulation to the doctors. Almost immediately after the change of Prime Ministers the general practitioners got their rise of IS per cent. 
We can remember also that as part of a face saving deal the Prime Minister received some sort of assurance, he thought, that the revised schedule would remain in force for 2 years - that is until the end of June 1973. But many of the doctors have treated the whole agreement with contempt. In fact, they have made it quite clear that as far as they are concerned there was no agreement at all. These doctors have thumbed their noses not only at the Government but at the Australian Medical Association. What has the Government done? It has given in to them. The Government has appeared even less responsible on the issue than the Australian Medical Association because when the New South Wales branch of the Society of General Practitioners recommended a rise in fees these rises were repudiated by the AMA. For a while the Government tried to give the impression that it was going to take a strong stand on the matter as well. But who capitulated? lt was not the AMA that gave way first; it was the Government. 
Last weekend, when interviewed on television, the Prime Minister was prepared to hint on participating doctor schemes - as I. think the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who is at the table has done - but that is about as far as they were ever prepared to go. By Tuesday of this week it was all over again, lt was another victory for the doctors. During his television interview last weekend the Prime Minister said: 
But there's a small group - and no more than a small group in New South Wales - 1,000 members of the General Practitioners Association, that seem anxious either to destroy the scheme based upon the common fee, or to defy the Government. We're not prepared to allow them to get away with it. 
It is a different story now; the Government has given it away. We are to have what the Government euphemistically calls arbitration'. Mind you, the Government does not have any agreement from the AMA about arbitration. But the Government still likes to call it arbitration. If I can paraphrase the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden):  If this is what you call arbitration, words have lost their meaning'. How can the Government possibly call it arbitration if it does not have agreement between the 2 sides? Yet, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said last night in his statement that the Government is not even going to seek an agreement with the AMA on the matter until after  Mr Justice  Kerr has made his decision. The Minister said: 
After implementation of the arbitrator's finding within the medical benefits schedule- 
It goes on -   . . firm assurances mil be sought from the Australian Medical Association that there will be general observance of the fees so that they will, in fact, become the most common fees. 
How can the Government call that arbitration? Only after  Mr Justice  Kerr has made his decision the Government is to ask the AMA to be a good sport and to go along with the decision. What is the Government going to do if the AMA will not go along with it? Why should the AMA go along with it? The Government has shown that it is prepared to reward people who are going to be militant - that is if they are doctors. If the AMA officials say that they will abide by arbitration, what control have they over their rebels - over the GPs? What about the other doctors in other States who are not observing the common fee? 
This highlights what is the most absurd aspect of the whole proposal. The Government is to seek an arbitrated settlement between itself and not the other party in the dispute, but the AMA. The dispute is not wilh the AMA; it is with the doctors who are not observing the AMA recommendations. The AMA has repudiated the General Practitioners Society so what is the point of going to arbitration with the AMA? Surely it should be quite obvious that none of these doctors will take much notice of what  Mr Justice  Kerr decides. The Government already has tossed its hand in. 
The Prime Minister and the Minister for Health referred to a participating doctor scheme - the Minister hinted at this last night. But as everyone knows, Liberal Ministers might say that when they are pressed to do so but they never mean it. That idea anyway has now been put off. Dark threats have been made, but that is all. Instead of acting to check excessive fees the Government has allowed the fees to go up. 
Let us be frank about it: Arbitration means a rise in fees. We have 2 sides which are arguing about this matter. One side say that fees should be so much and the other side says that the fees should be higher. But if this matter goes to arbitration, whatever happens the arbitrator will strike a medium between the two. What does that mean? Everyone knows - and the Government knows - that it means that there will be a rise in the common fee. This is quite contrary to the Government's understanding with the AMA about a year ago. Instead of standing up to the increased fees the Government has gone to water. In other words, the Government now really is saying: 'Do not worry about any agreement with us; we never meant it anyway - you do what you like.' 
I would like to have a bit of a guess about what is going to happen. 1 think that the arbitrator will select a schedule of fees which is already higher than those operating - thai is the common fee - in New South Wales. 1 suppose it is possible that he will not recommend a higher fee, but I doubt it. I should think that the Government will so define the terms of reference as to make it pretty hard for  Mr Justice  Kerr to recommend that the common fee stays at its present level. My bet is that there will be an increase in the common fee. When the new schedule of increased fees comes into operation I should think that those GPs who already charge more than that amount will ignore the new figure. They will not reduce their fees voluntarily. Why should they be good chaps? The Government has shown that it is prepared to condone militancy. What about the doctors who at present observe the common fee; those who have not increased their fees? When the new level is struck, the doctors who now charge the existing common fee will increase their fees to bring them to the level of the common fee. So, those who are charging less will increase their fees and those who are charging more will keep theirs at the same level, and the overall effect of the Government's decision to appoint an arbitrator will be to raise the overall level of medical costs in New South Wales. What then will the doctors in the other States say? Remember that the majority of doctors elsewhere still observe the common fee. It is not likely that they will idly watch the New South Wales doctors get a rise without coming in for their chop. After all, the Government has shown that one only has to flex a bit of muscle and it will go to water. 
It was yesterday, I think, that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was complaining about industrial lawlessness. Here is a prime example of industrial lawlessness and far from standing up to it, the Government is preparing to reward it. The Governxent adopts a different attitude when it is the low wage earners who are pressing for an increase. According to the Government, we cannot have any of that but when it is a matter involving the doctors or the tall poppies in the Commonwealth Public Service or the Ministers themselves, the Government is not averse to granting a pretty fat rise in fees. I very much regret that the whole debate on health in Australia now has gone on to the question of how high the doctors fees should be. This should not be the central issue. The question should be whether the people are getting healthier, and T think you will find that this is not so. There has been an enormous increase in various types of morbidity in Australia, in spite of a tremendous increase in expenditure on health. We are spending a lot more but we are not getting enough back out of it. 
The present fee for service system is inadequate. Under this scheme the doctors, whether they are the most honourable men in the world or not, have a vested interest in people being sick. The more they are sick, the more the doctor is paid. There is a vested increase in over-use of the scheme which gives the doctor an incentive to exploit it. I am sure that this is one of the reasons for the excessive prescription of drugs covered by the pharmaceutical benefits list, because this system rewards the doctor the more a patient comes back to him. The fee for service system has no regard for the broader aspects of community health, such as preventive medicine. I commend to everybody the Australian Labor Party proposals for providing an integrated health service on a salaried basis. This will provide, not on a compulsory basis but parallel with the existing private medical service, an adequate salaried structure which will enable an overall programme of total community health care. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has deliberately tried to mislead the House over the relative performances of the State governments in capital expenditure on education. I say tried to mislead the House' because honourable members already know that the record of the South Australian Labor Government on education is the best in Australia. The parent and teacher organisations know this to be true. If honourable members really want to know how well Liberal governments and Labor governments have helped education ask those who have to run the system. Ask the teacher organisations. What happened at the last Teachers Federation congress at Adelaide? Which Government did the teachers express a lack of confidence in? It was not the Labor governments of Western Australia or South Australia; it was the Federal Liberal Government. 
How can anyone deny that South Australia, under a Labor government, is the leader in Australian education? I challenge any honourable member opposite to ask the Teachers Institute in South Australia what it thinks of the South Australian Government and to contrast that with what the teachers organisations in New South Wales and Victoria think of their State Governments? They know very well that Liberal State governments such as this Liberal Government have a belief in an elitist education system where there is great public patronage of wealthy private schools to prepare the children of the rich to become rulers in their turn. As for the lower orders in the government schools, they receive just enough training to enable them to take their place in the factory to earn profits for their masters. 
Seeing that the matter of education policies of the State governments has been raised, let me dwell on it further, lt is important because the South Australian Labor Party, which has performed so admirably in the field of education, is guided by the same humanitarian principle which will guide the next Federal Labor Government. These principles are: Firstly, a greatly increased expenditure on education; secondly, expenditure on education to be allocated on a basis of need so that education will overcome the disadvantages of those children from families with limited incomes - in other words, to provide equality of opportunity; and thirdly, decentralisation of decision making and devolution of power so that maximum autonomy is given to teachers and students. These will be the goals of a Federal Labor Government. They are rapidly becoming the reality in South Australia under the State Labor Government. Of course, government schools need much more help in South Australia as they do in every other State. But to get the degree of aid needed, further money must come from the Commonwealth. 
As honourable members can see from the Bills before us, particularly the one relating to capital assistance, this aid is not coming now under a Liberal Government. This is only a small fraction of what was needed according to the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs. As I shall point out in a moment, there is no chance of adequate Commonwealth support under Liberal administration. As T shall also point out in a moment, support will be forthcoming under a Commonwealth Labor government. 
However, I would first like to demolish the pathetic assertions by the Minister about the grants made to the States at the last Premiers Conference. At that conference funds were made available for works and housing. The reason was specifically to stimulate employment. This was the condition specified by the Commonwealth Government. 
It was nol for education but was specifically to provide employment. The Minister has stated that only 10 per cent of this amount going on education in South Australia is a poor performance. Let me point out that the Commonwealth wanted all the funds spent this financial year, that is within 5 months. How on earth then can we start new school buildings and have the bills paid in that time? Any fool knows that we could not spend that amount of money in that time on school buildings. The only money that could be spent would be on minor works programmes, purchase of teachers houses, and so on. Any bills being paid between now and 30th June for school buildings could only be for works already planned at the time of the Premiers Conference in February. So if the latest Commonwealth grants were being used for this purpose by other States, then they must have been substituting Commonwealth money for State money. In other words, the New South Wales and Victorian figures are phoney. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who will follow me later in this debate, has an example of that very thing happening within his own electorate. The Minister must know this. Why does be have to resort to deception? It is because if he relies on the facts he will have to admit that the performance of the South Australian Government in education is the best in Australia. 
What are the facts? The facts come out by examining the total expenditure on education, whether from Commonwealth or State sources. This will give a factual record of State Government performances. In 1969-70, the last year of the South Australian Liberal Government, capital expenditure on education was SI 3.8m. This year it will be $20. 6m. In other words, in 2 years the Labor Government has increased capital expenditure on education by 50 per cent. Capital expenditure on education at government schools per child population in South Australia is in fact the highest in Australia. So the Minister's assertion is the opposite of the truth. But no wonder the Minister is frightened of the truth; for the truth is that it is against the class interests of those people whom the Minister represents to have full education for everybody. 
What about recurrent expenditure? In the last year of the South Australian Liberal Government, recurrent expenditure in education was $65m odd. The anticipated expenditure this year is $97m odd. This also is an increase of almost exactly 50 per cent in 2 years. South Australia's combined capital and recurrent expenditure over the last 2 years has increased at a rate of 40 per cent, faster than any other State in Australia. Not that Western Australia is going badly, but it has had only one year to get over Liberal Government neglect. In the first year of the Labor Government in Western Australia, the total capital allocation for education has been increased by 27 per cent. This incidentally was made clear to the Minister for Education and Science when he visited Western Australia. 
As far as the grants at the recent Premiers Conference are concerned, the Minister knows that these funds were specifically provided to stimulate employment. The Commonwealth specifically wanted the money spent now, to relieve unemployment. The Western Australian Government has gladly acceded to the Commonwealth's request, and is spending" the money on works of a labor-intensive nature. Of course it is not waiting for further schools not yet on the drawing-boards to spend the money. Does the Minister seriously suggest that New South Wales Victoria and Tasmania are going to design, build and pay for new schools before the end of this financial year? It is a preposterous proposition. Their figures could not be genuine. And a final question on this matter: Does the Minister deny that when he visited Western Australia he stated in the presence of the Western Australian Minister of Education that Western Australia's school building programme appeared to him to be well-advanced and that Western Australia appeared to be doing better than other States? 
The facts clearly support the case of the 2 State Labor governments. They have shown that Labor is fair dinkum on increasing educational expenditure. So will the Federal Labor Government be fair dinkum. Labor is also fair dinkum about providing equal opportunities, through education. What this means is, that to those who have less, more shall be given. Under the Liberal Government, the reverse is the case - inequalities are magnified. Take for example the taxation system. The higher one's income, the greater the taxation deduction. As if the system were not bad enough, the Government increased the maximum deduction from $300 to $400 in the last Budget. And who is going to benefit from that. How many parents of State school children can afford to take advantage of that by spending more than $300 on a child's education. Very few, if any. The real beneficiaries are the parents of children at the wealthy private schools, the people whom the Liberals represent. These are the wealthy schools that were attended by the Cabinet Ministers and now are being attended by their children. It is  a  subsidy from the taxpayers to the wealthy schools. It is nothing less than a naked transfer of money from the poor to the rich. The fact that this was no accident was eloquently shown by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  tonight when he revealed a statement from the Government Members Education Committee to the effect that the Committee was in favour of removing the limit altogether on the taxation deduction but it said that it would be impolitic to do so at present. Such is the cynicism of the Liberal Government. 
It cannot be argued, as the Minister sometimes has done, that this taxation deduction is a help to children in the depressed rural areas. Farmers incomes are so low that the tax concession is no help, except to a minority of wealthy graziers. If the Government wanted to provide equitable and real help to farmers children, it would do what the South Australian Government has done, namely, provide a direct grant at a level assessed according to needs. The Commonwealth's programme of science blocks has been subject to a penetrating analysis by my colleague, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  who has clearly demonstrated its bias, again in favour of the wealthy private schools. This present Bill is a further example of inequality in that aid to private schools is a flat grant regardless of need. This cannot overcome inequality. If one wants to compensate a child from a poor family to provide an equal opportunity in life, one must discriminate in his favour. With an equal grant to all, the rich child at the well-off private school will finish up still further in front of the deprived child. The South Australian Labor Government acknowledges this fact, and in that State aid to independent schools is apportioned according to need. 
The Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme is another example of encouraging perpetual inequality. This scheme supposedly was devised to help those children to complete their secondary education who would otherwise, through lack of money, have had to leave school. But what has happened? Only a very small fraction of the scholarships is going to the needy. Nearly all the recipients of the scholarships could have afforded to stay at school anyway. Instead of awarding the scholarships on a needs basis, they are awarded accordingly to so-called objective tests. I say 'so-called' because the tests have a bias towards the more affluent, too. In passing, let me mention another move by the South Australian Government to overcome inequality in education. There is, as is well known, inequality in government schools between rich and poor suburbs. This is partly due to the subsidy system whereby the Government pays a grant matching whatever the school can raise locally. The schools which raise more - they are in the rich suburbs - get more in subsidy. The South Australian Government has abolished the subsidy system in favour of a system of straight out grants. 
The facts are clear. Labor has shown both by its Federal policy and by its performances in government that it is committed to abolishing inequality in education. But let no-one think that the inequality under the Liberals is any accident. The present Minister for Education and Science and his predecessor have both made it clear that inequality is the normal order of things - the natural order - and that we should not interfere. The present Minister told the House this week that if some parents are less concerned than others about their children's education, the States should not do anything about it. What this means of course is that these children, without special assistance, will grow up, like their parents, without a special concern for education and this attitude will be passed on to their children. Without government assistance, there will be a selfperpetuating paucity of education from one generation to the next. Apparently this is what the Government wants. 
I agree that the parents of children at private schools are concerned with their children's future. A good example of this is the Federal Cabinet. So concerned are members of the Cabinet for their own children that they send them to private schools. That is all that needs to be said for the government schools which this Government claims to be helping so much. The Ministers have so little faith in the government schools that they have all bought their children out of them. But what if these children now at private schools went to government schools? I am sure that their concerned parents would soon see that the government schools were improved, both by their direct effort and through their political influence. This would be a tremendous help to children whose parents were less concerned. Surely, this is not an argument for giving more to the wealthy schools. However, under the present situation, the under-privileged children go to the State schools and more of them drop out before completing secondary schooling. Apparently, according to the Minister for Education and Science, that is how it is supposed to be. This attitude is deliberate. The present Minister's predecessor made it clear why they must drop out. According to a report in the Australian' of 29th April 1971 - I have no reason to doubt its accuracy, as it is in quotation marks - relating to the low retention figure for government schools,  Mr Fairbairn  said: 
Not all children need to complete a full secondary course to undertake a chosen career. For example, apprentices and others continue their education at technical colleges as well as people entering a range of commercial occupations. 
So it is quite clear. Note the special references to apprentices and technical courses in relation to government schools. Such occupations are not for the elite schools, of course. They are for the lower orders who have to learn to take their place at the work bench to work for their rulers from the private schools, to earn wages to buy back the goods they produced by their labour. If the Government gave everybody a complete education, it would have nobody to do the dirty jobs, because what matriculant or graduate would want to do the tedious, repetitive soul-destroying work which many wage-earners now have to do? Such is the Government's reasoning. Like it or not, Labor will remove these inequities, and when all children get the opportunity they deserve, they certainly will not want to do the dirty work either. There will be a great questioning of the whole system. There will be a large number of well-educated young people who are not prepared to serve the capitalist machine. 1 will welcome the day when this happens. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.4 a.m. (Friday) 
The following answers to questions upon notice were circulated: 
So far on the Government side we have had contributions to this debate from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and 2 previous Ministers for the Army. I understand the Government  speaker  who will follow me is the present Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter).  This makes one speculate as to whether the Government sees the whole issue in this debate as merely a matter for the military. I am moved to wonder whether if the Department of Foreign Affairs had had anything to say about this we would have heard the same nonsense as is being purveyed by the ex-Ministers for the Army as we have heard so far. 
The statement which we are discussing represents an attempt by the Government to rewrite its version of the Vietnam war. It is a pathetic attempt by the Government to justify its criminal intervention in someone else's civil war. The guilty men are trying to rewrite history. Apparently they think the Australian people have short memories. Let me assure the Government that Australians will remember for a very long time the hysterical attempts in the 1966 election campaign to construe the civil war in Vietnam as part of a Chinese policy of territorial expansionism. 
Vietnam is still a very important matter. The bombings continue, the fighting continues and people are still being killed. There are some important lessons to be learnt but they will not be found in the ministerial statement of the Minister for Defence. The Minister's statement is full of distortions and half-truths and, most importantly of all, seems to indicate that the Government is obstinately taking the position that it did right and would do the same again. I say 'seems to indicate' because I believe that in fairness the Government would not send troops back if the situation in South Vietnam returns to what it was in 1965. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  a question on these lines last year and in reply he said it was hypothetical to talk about a situation in which Australian troops would be sent back to Vietnam. I think the truth is that the Government knows that the political situation in Australia is now such that an Australian government could not recommit troops to Vietnam, and the Opposition is glad of that. 
The Minister's statement is grossly distorting in its implications. It claims that the Australian troop commitment allegedly arose from requests from the South Vietnamese Government. Let us look at these so called requests. There is the letter from Prime Minister Khand in July 1964 to 34 heads of state. How could one possibly say that this was a request for troops? How many others of those 34 countries construed it as a request for troops? Not even the United States did so. Even the main United States commitment followed only several months later, in a different context and with a different South Vietnamese Prime Minister. 
What a lot of nonsense it is to say that the next Prime Minister of South Vietnam,  Mr Huong,  made a request through the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  Even  Mr Howson  has admitted that the conversation that he had was in broken French. It cannot be suggested seriously that this was the request on which we sent Australian troops to war. It seems to me that the very fact that the Government has invoked this argument shows how feeble is its whole case. The same goes for the interview with the Australian Ambassador, this time with a different South Vietnamese Prime Minister. The facts are again clearly to be seen by the letters tabled by the Prime Minister in this House last year. The fact is that Australia was not asked to send troops. Australia asked to be asked. The South Vietnamese Government then acceded to the Australian request. Furthermore, if we look at the Pentagon Papers it becomes pretty clear that the troop commitment came very soon after the American Ambassador in Saigon had told his Government that it should suggest an Australian troop commitment. Yet the Government tries to imply that the United States Government's thinking had no influence on the Australian troop commitment. What utter rubbish. We danced to the American tune, and no-one can deny that. I am not suggesting that the Australian Government did not have other reasons for becoming involved, but it cannot expect us to believe that the United States Government had no influence on the decision. Yet this is what we are being asked to believe in the statement by the Minister for Defence. 
Another very curious thing about the Minister's statement is that, according to him, the influence of the Chinese no longer seems to be important. The Minister quoted the speech of  Sir Robert  Menzies in this House on 29th April 1965 on how the Australian Government did not want troops in Vietnam any longer than was necessary. Why did he not quote from the  2  paragraphs above that? Let me quote from that same speech of  Sir Robert  Menzies in which he said: 
The takeover of South Vietnam would be a direct military threat to Australia and all the countries of South and South East Asia. It must be seen as part of a thrust by Communist China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
Why was that not mentioned by the Minister on this occasion? Is that no longer the official view? If not, why not? Perhaps this explains why the Prime Minister would not say whether he would recommit troops if Vietnam returned to the 1965 situation. Is there no longer such a threat to Australia? Who knows? We are not told. The Minister has made no reference to it in his speech. The Australian people have a right to know their Government's view of China's activities and its intended activities. 
I come now to another serious distortion in the Minister's statement. The Minister states that by 1965 the North Vietnamese military build-up had reached critical proportions. This point is mentioned twice, and we are apparently being asked to believe that there was a steady build-up of North Vietnamese until 1965. In actual fact there were only North Vietnam advisers in South Vietnam until some time in 1965. It was not until then that the first reports came through of North Vietnamese units operating in South Vietnam. According to the Pentagon Papers the first reports of North Vietnamese units operating in South Vietnam came on 21st April 1965. The opposition to the Saigon Government until that time had been almost entirely from the National Liberation Front - the Vietcong - and that was not until the United States began bombing North Vietnam. It was then that the infiltration of North Vietnamese units began. Before the United States started the bombing, the 
Saigon Government's opposition came from the NLF which was, and still is, South Vietnamese. 
Another remarkable statement from the Minister is that the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces were influencing the South Vietnamese population by means of a persistent campaign of  terror.  He suggested that that was the only reason that the Vietcong received any support from the South Vietnamese population. I draw to the attention of the House an article by Konrad Kellen of the United States Rand Corporation, in which he states at page 10: 
. prisoner interrogations revealed that despite some problems that have arisen between the soldiers and the population as a result of the long war, the bond between them has remained close enough to provide physical and emotional support to the soldiers. The reason for this seems to be that despite the rigours of the war the soldiers continue to treat the local population with respect and otherwise attractive behaviour. 
This was a study based on interviews with about 1,000 prisoners of the South Vietnamese Government. Why is there no mention of the practices of the Saigon Government? 
It appears to me that much of the support enjoyed by the Vietcong is due to repression of dissident elements by the successive governments in Saigon. When I was in Saigon last year with the honourable member for Adelaide I was given accounts of how the Government treated its political dissenters, such as students. There is, according to my information, a very large number of political prisoners in South Vietnam and torture is standard practice. It is this type of treatment which helps the recruiting for the NLF. Anybody in Saigon who talks of negotiating with the Vietcong is ruthlessly dealt with. When I was there 1 heard quite a lot about Sen Chau. who had been imprisoned following an illegal trial.  His  crime was to have meetings with his brother, a member of the NLF, about how peace could be restored. 
Why does the Australian Government not tell us about what happens to the political dissenters in South Vietnam? The Government has tried to deceive the Australian people. If we were to believe this Government, South Vietnam has been made safe for democracy. In fact, the Government of South Vietnam is neither democratic no safe. It is all very well for the Government to give its version of things in South Vietnam, but the honourable member for Adelaide and I got a very different version. We heard that there is a substantial body of non-Communist opposition to the Thieu Government, but that it is suppressed by that Government. There would be a chance for an alternative to Thieu and there are those in South Vietnam who have their ideas on this. One brave  deputy, Deputy  Duc, proposed a coalition which he said could be composed of people acceptable to 90 per cent of the population. But the Thieu Government will have none of if. 
Just how secure is the Government of South Vietnam? We were told that 30,000 NLF sympathisers had infiltrated into government positions. We were told that more government positions were overrun in 1970 than in the previous year. Yet the Minister would have us believe that the NLF and the North Vietnamese are now unable to mount any large offensives. An alternative explanation is that they do not need to mount any such offensives as they are doing quiet well on the political front; besides which they do not want to take any military action which might slow down the American withdrawal. In other words, the Government is trying to pretend that South Vietnam has been saved from Communism and that is why we got out. The facts are really that the United States and Australian Governments have given it away as a bad job. 
When I was in Vietnam I was very pleased to interview one Madame Ngo Ba Thanh. Madame Thanh is a very important figure in the peace movement in South Vietnam. She told me that what the peace movement desires in South Vietnam is the withdrawal of all foreign forces. I asked her whether the NLF would try to achieve a military victory if the United States withdrew. She said that she did not think so. She believes that the NLF would cease military tactics if it was not threatened by a Saigon government backed by a foreign power. She believes that withdrawal of United States forces would positively help bring about a political solution rather than a military solution. She believes that all different interests would be represented in any government set up by such a political settlement. Such a government would not be dominated by the NLF to the exclusion of everybody else. It is sad and ironic that I should recall Madame Thanh in this debate. Three nights ago on the Australian Broadcasting Commission I heard that Madame Thanh has been brought to trial by the Saigon Government. In fact, she has now been in prison for 5 months awiating trial. 
Towards the end of his statement the Minister said: 
The concept of collective security, therefore, continues to be of vital importance to us. If we are to rely on it, as we must, in relation to the deterrents of more serious levels of threat, we must also be prepared to contribute, as we have done in Vietnam. 
I hope that this does not mean that the Government has not learnt anything at all. I hope that it does not mean that if there is a recurrence of the 196S situation in Vietnam or a similar civil war situation, such as in Thailand or Sarawak, Australia does not just blunder in as it did last time. 
Australians would like many questions answered now that we have got out of Vietnam - questions about things that have happened that we have not heard about in the Minister's speech. What diplomatic initiatives are we taking to get a peaceful settlement? What are we doing to try to rehabilitate South Vietnam? What is the Australian attitude to the Paris Peace Talks? What are the implications of the Nixon visit on the future of Vietnam? All these things we would like to know but we have not heard about them. We think they are of prime importance at the present time. 
Finally, there have been tributes paid in this debate and I would like to pay another tribute. It is to the Opposition  speaker  who preceded me, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He has, in my belief, contributed an enormous amount, an unequalled amount towards the peace movement in Australia and I believe that because of the attention he has drawn to the criminal operations of the Australian Government in Vietnam he has brought about a change of heart and a withdrawal of Australian forces. I believe that the Australian people are in his debt. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that 'be House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1  wish to raise a matter concerning the PostmasterGeneral's Department in relation to a publication known as the 'South Australian School Post'. This is the publication of the association known as the SAASSO which is the South Australian Association of State School Organisations. The complaint of that Association - a justified complaint in my view - is that for the purposes of transmission through the Post this publication is categorised under category B. The organisation seeks to have the publication recategorised into category A because under the present conditions the organisation, which is doing a great deal to further the cause of education in South Australia, is suffering a financial penalty. 
This matter has been the subject of correspondence between myself, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme).  The honourable member for Sturt and I nave received a reply from the PostmasterGeneral which, I regret to say, was most unsatisfactory and, in fact quite peremptory. The reply was not up to the usual standard honourable members have come to expect from the Postmaster-General.  1  do not want to reflect on him personally.  1  understand he is not able to be in the House at the moment. However, I did mention this matter earlier to the Assistant Minister assisting the Postmaster-General  (Mr Robinson)  and I am sorry that I do not know why he has not seen fit to come into the House to listen to what I have to say. I suspect that the Postmaster-General did not give to the reply the attention that he might have given when the matter was brought to his attention for signature by one of his senior public servants. 
The postal categorisation of educational journals was raised in a question asked last December by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  When asked the question, the Postmaster-General replied: 
However, he- 
That is, the honourable member for Hughes -  will know that the categories attracting special postage concession relate to educational and scientific areas and that many of the journals which are published by parents and citizens associations are notices concerning meetings, social activities, etc., which could not be regarded by anybody as being related to the dissemination of educational material. 
I believe that that is an unsatisfactory answer because one could take from that answer of the Postmaster-General that if the journals were not merely notices of meetings and social activities one could reasonably expect that the journals would be recategorised as category A. I pointed that out in the letter that I wrote recently to the Postmaster-General. In the reply that I received he stated: 
In my reply to  Mr Johnson,  M.P., concerning the classification of this type of journal, I quoted notices concerning meetings, social activities etc., as an example of the contents of some publications. It was not inferred that other kinds of content would render the publication of parent organisations eligible for Category A classification. 
I just cannot understand the PostmasterGeneral's interpretation. I would take it that there is a very clear inference in the answer that he gave  to  the honourable member for Hughes last December that if such a publication was not solely one that gave notices of meetings and social activities it would be eligible for categorisation in category A. This is now denied by the PostmasterGeneral. 
The other matter that I find unacceptable in the answer of the Postmaster-General is that there is no real statement that he has given any consideration to the particular case of the South Australian 'School Post'. He has sent a short answer and a copy of a Press statement which he had issued earlier. The letter contains no evidence that any actual consideration had been given to the South Australian 'School Post'. We do not know whether the Government has considered the merits of an A categorisation or a B categorisation. I point out that the publication is primarily an educational one. For the life of me, I cannot see how it could be categorised as B when publications such as the 'Chronicle' - a paper published for private profit in South Australia - attract the special concession rate under category A. To me this is absolutely outrageous and it is patronising a sectional interest. In contrast, SAASSO caters for the welfare of children in all government schools in South Australia. 
I ask that the matter be given further consideration. The organisation is doing excellent work in South Australia. I am sure that all honourable members from South Australia, even the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  would be aware of the work done by the South Australian Association of State School Organisations. I know that Government members have received deputations from the Organisation, as have Opposition members. I am sure that the honourable member for Angas will agree that the Organisation does a splendid job. It is not just a political organisation. It is doing a great deal at the educational level. My wife,- who is a member of the executive of the Organisation, is a member of a curriculum sub-committee which is concerned specifically with the actual curricula in South Australian government schools. I would ask that the matter be given further consideration by the Government. I think that the answer that I have received is most unsatisfactory for a number oi reasons. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many school-leavers sought apprenticeships in each trade grouping in (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years. 
How many vacancies were available for apprentices in each trade grouping in (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Did the Minister state recently that it is for the unions to solve the problem of demarcation disputes? Is he aware that it is the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to encourage union amalgamation and that such amalgamation will lessen industrial unrest from demarcation disputes? Will the Government therefore give an assurance that taxpayers' money will not be used in any court action designed to block union amalgamation? Will the Government also give an assurance that any money thus used to buy Democratic Labor Party support will be paid by the Liberal Party and not by taxpayers? 
Opposition Members - Hear, hear! 
I ask the Treasurer: Is foreign  investment flowing into Australia at an unprecedented rate? Do the investment guidelines laid down by the Gorton Government encourage rather than discourage overseas borrowing by companies operating in Australia? Has the Government just borrowed money overseas when the capital was readily available at comparable interest rates in Australia? Has the pegging of the Australian dollar at. the low end of the  21/4  per cent variation allowed by the International Monetary Fund encouraged further capital inflow. Is it a fact that neither the Treasurer's speech yesterday nor the Treasury document foreshadows anything other than continued inaction? Finally, when will the Government control inflation by restraining capital inflow rather than by putting people out of work? 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to obtain loans from the Governments of (a) Japan and (b) the Federal Republic of Germany in the near future. 
If so, what is the amount of the (a) loan and (b) annual interest rate in each case. 
Are the terms of the loan or loans favourable to the Commonwealth; if so, why. 
Is it prudent to borrow funds from these overseas markets in present circumstances. 
Are Australian reserves of foreign currency now at a record level. 
Has an investigation been carried out as to whether the loans could have been raised in the domestic capital market; if so, what was the result of the investigation. 
What would have been the likely rate of interest if the loans were negotiated in Australia. 
It seems to me that amendment No. 7 which has been proposed by the Government is completely hypocritical. My disquiet is not in any way alleviated by the fact that, when this amendment was moved by the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate, no explanation was given by the Minister in charge of the Bill in that chamber. I hope that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will give some explanation now as to why the amendment originally moved by the DLP in the Senate was so worded. 1 invite the House to examine the amendment that was proposed in the Senate by the Australian Labor Party. This amendment provided that paragraph (b) should read: the total number of members of the de-registering organisation or organisations is not more than five per centum of the number of members of the first-mentioned organisation. 
The amendment moved in the Senate by the DLP and supported by the Government purports to assist the amalgamation of unions or the absorption of little unions by big unions. I strongly suspect that the amendment moved in the Senate by the DLP, wilh the connivance of the Government, was brought about with the connivance also of the draftsmen of the Department or, perhaps, the Parliamentary Draftsman. The draftsmen certainly appear to have helped the Government to overcome certain problems in this regard. The Government's amendment states that (b) should now read: the total number of members that have been or could be admitted to the organisation upon and by any reason of the amalgamation. . . . 
It appears to me that the insertion of the words 'and could be' is quite critical. The Government would like to have us believe that the amendment will enable small unions, after a plebiscite, to be absorbed into bigger unions. A plebiscite would not need to be conducted in the larger union. However, the phrase 'and could be' which was introduced by the DLP with the connivance of the Government in actual fact will frustrate the supposed purpose of the amendment. No explanation was given by the Government in the Senate and I think that the House is entitled to some explanation now. 
In conclusion, I support completely the remarks of previous speakers from this side of the House. This is a very sorry attempt on the part of the DLP to try to block union amalgamations all along the line. The DLP is completely opposed to such amalgamations because it knows that union amalgamation is in the interests of industrial peace and of the advancement generally of the cause of trade unionists and workers. This is a sorry tale of betrayal of the working people by the DLP and, from speeches which he has made in the past supporting the cause of amalgamation, I think that the Minister for Labour and National Service knows this very well. I am saddened to see that once again the Government has connived with the DLP to defeat yet another amalgamation. I hope that the Minister will give some explanation to the House as to why the Government has taken this action on this occasion. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Are proposals to alter, impose, or remove  a  Customs  or  Excise duty normally kept  secret  prior  to  their anouncement in the House; if  so,  what are the reasons  for  the secrecy. 
Can he instance where premature disclosure has occurred; if so, what action has been taken in each case. 
What precautions are taken against premature disclosure. 
I want to speak briefly in support of the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who has expressed the attitude of the Opposition towards this Bill. Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports I have some misgivings about the way in which part of the investment tends to be used. This criticism is not levelled specifically at the Asian Development Bank, but as honourable members probably know considerable criticism has been levelled at some of the other international monetary agencies operating in other parts of the world. Quite recently an account has appeared of the operations in Latin America of certain funds such as the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I refer to the book 'Aid as Imperialism' written by Teresa Hayter. This interesting publication merits some study. It deals almost exclusively with the activities of these agencies within Latin America. It does not deal with the operations of the Asian Development Bank but I am wondering whether some parallels could be drawn. 
Teresa Hayter was a member of the Overseas Development Institute. She was engaged to carry out a study of some of the programmes of the international monetary agencies in underdeveloped countries. Although she was committed philosophically to these programmes initially she finished up being rather hostile to them. She came to the conclusion that the sole purpose of the funds seemed to be to meet the ends of the donor countries, that is to say, those countries which had principally subscribed the capital to the International Monetary Fund or to whatever fund was involved. It seemed to her that in addition to helping the underdeveloped countries the purpose of the funds was to promote within recipient countries the perpetuation of p&lt;"'tical systems which the donor countries regarded as being in the best interests of the donor countries even though in certain cases - I do not think any honourable member would disagree - they were not always the best types of government for the people of Latin America. 
We must avoid this type of situation in Asia. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to a type of neocolonialism or neo-imperialism. I was a little concerned when the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  in his opening remarks said that one of the functions of the Asian Development Bank is to inculcate proper banking and investment practices in recipient countries. Once again it seems that we may be trying to say to the recipient countries that they must adopt the practices that we say are best because we want to see what we call 'political stability' but what might in fact be the imposition of political economic systems which are quite unfavourable to the recipient countries. 
I do not wish to oppose this Bill. 1 am all in favour of our giving maximum aid to underdeveloped countries but like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports I am hopeful that we can reach the stage where the countries concerned do not have to depend on this type of aid from agencies such as the Asian Development Bank to the extent that they now depend on it. The danger is that they will become somewhat beholden to the neo-imperialist policies of donor countries. If we are really fair dinkum about trying to help the underdeveloped countries we should not be assisting in making them dependent on these agencies but should be seeking multilateral and bilateral trading arrangements. We are not going to help these countries to get off the ground unless we can foster their own exports and enable them to help themselves. 
I do not want to specify any particular industry. I suppose it is all very well to be an expert on trade matters that involve another member's electorate, but obviously wc have to secure employment opportunities within Australia. For goodness sake, if we are to trade with other countries, why should we not give more concessions to the underdeveloped countries around this area? What happened after the Kennedy Round agreement? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are proposals in the annual Commonwealth Budget to impose, alter or remove taxes or excise duties customarily kept secret until the presentation of the Budget in the House; if so, what are the reasons for the secrecy. 
Can he instance any cases where this secrecy has been breached. 
What precautions are taken against premature disclosure. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the Government accepted the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development principle that the polluter pays. 
Does this mean that polluting industry must meet the pollution cost in the use and disposal as well as the production of its products. 
Does it also mean that industry must also pay a certain amount as compensation for depletion of non-renewable resources. 
Is it intended that the polluter pays principle will result in the ultimate cost of pollution being borne by, the consumer. 
If so, will this result in reduced sales of consumer goods to low-income earners and what effects on employment are anticipated. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts: 
Are pollution of the environment and depletion of non-renewable resources functions of economic growth. 
If so, what did he mean in this statement on 24th May 1972 that the Commonwealth is concerned with devising a pattern of national development in which environmental objectives go hand in hand with economic goals. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
How many meetings of the Australian Environment Council have taken place. 
On what date was each meeting held. 
Is there any, permanent administrative body, such as an interstate commission, made up of Commonwealth and State representatives, to formulate proposals for joint action by all Australian governments to protect the environment 
If not, will consideration be given to the establishment of such a body, which will make recommendations to the Australian Environment Council. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Who is to prepare and submit the impact statements, designed to protect the environment, which will accompany submissions to Cabinet on any proposal that has some relevance to the environment, as he foreshadowed on 24th May 1972. 
Will the statements be made in public or will they be merely written for impact on Cabinet Ministers. 
Will the Government make available impact statements on the effects on the environment of: 
construction of H.M.A.S. Stirling facility on Cockburn Sound, Western Australia, 
the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1972, 
the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970, 
the failure to enact the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970, 
construction of the Ord River Dam, (0 taxation concessions for capital gain for land clearing for farming and 
the Dairying Industry Act. 
This Bill will give effect to the creation of additional Ministries in the Territory of Papua New 
Guinea. As the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  said in his second reading speech, this Bill flows from a formal request from the Government of Papua New Guinea. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  raised the question of the present duality that exists in the transition towards self government and independence. This is not an abstract matter but is one of vital importance to Australia. Most important is the fact that there is a section of the Australian Army - not a Papua New Guinea army or the Pacific Islands Regiment but, I repeat, part of the Australian army in Papua New Guinea. The Minister may correct rae if I am wrong but it seems to me that this army is ambivalent in this situation because I am not sure to whom it is responsible at the moment and to whom it will be responsible in the near future. 
These arrangements which led to the introduction of this Bill follow on talks between the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  and the Government of Papua New Guinea. According to the Press report it was resolved that these new ministerial positions were to be created, but in addition there was provision that the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  was henceforth the spokesman for defence matters and for the police. 
It seems to me that we have a rather curious situation here. In the first place, the Chief Minister is to be the spokesman on the matter of defence, which equals, in that area, the Pacific Islands Regiment. But the Pacific Islands Regiment is not responsible to the Administrator's Executive Council - it is part of the Australian Army. I should like the Minister, if he can, to explain this matter because I think it is an important point. In what way will the Chief Minister, a member of the AEC, speak on behalf of a body which is not responsible to him. When I first rose in this debate I said that this is not just a simple abstraction; it is a terribly important matter because in a sense, as the honourable member for Fremantle said, there is de facto self government. I congratulate the Minister for the work he has done in the past in allowing the course of self government to run as quickly as the Government of Papua New Guinea thinks desirable. Fortunately I think it agrees with the view of the Australian Labor Party that self government must be achieved as soon as practicable. Nevertheless, we have the situation where the PIR, if we have de facto self government in Papua New Guinea, is a colonial force. If that is the case - once again this is not a theoretical argument - what is the role of that force within the Territory? 
We know the views of the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  I do not think that Australia should even have its forces on anyone else's soil but at least the previous Prime Minister went part of the way in regard to Malaysia when he said that he did not think that our forces there should take part in any operations against areas of civil conflict. If civil conflict arose in Papua New Guinea - I do not want to speculate as to possibilities because that is a subject for another time - we have part of the Australian Army based there. In this situation where we have de facto self government what will be the situation in the event of some internal dissension within Papua New Guinea? What is its relationship then to the Australian Government, the Australian Army and the AEC? I hope the Minister can enlighten the House on this question. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Health and concerns the reported finding in Victoria of mercurial contamination of shark to 4 times the legal limit, a finding which has removed from Victorian fish shops over one-third of the quantity of fish normally consumed in Victoria, threatened disaster for fishermen in 3 States including those in the Minister's electorate, and disclosed a threatening public health hazard. Can the Minister reassure the House that this instance of marine pollution is not related to the widely, publicised deep sea dumping of industrial effluent? Is he aware that the high incidence of mercurial poisoning in a Japanese fishing village has been , attributed to dumping of industrial effluent? Does the Commonwealth regard this matter as the concern of the Commonwealth Department of Health? If so, does the Commonwealth have the constitutional and legal power to take appropriate action? 
I seek leave to make a very short statement. 
We have just listened to the honourable member lor Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who, like the Keynesian economics he just espoused and like the Party he represents, is old hat. I agree with him on one thing, the attendance in the House, because it reminds me of the situation here when I spoke in the Budget debate last year. We are now talking about a Budget which provides for an overall deficit of $630m and a domestic deficit of $60m. The purpose of this deficit Budget is to correct the unemployment which was caused by the 1971-72 Budget. It was the cause of the present unemployment situation. When I spoke in the House last year in the Budget debate to an equally enthralled and packed House of Representatives, I predicted that precisely this situation would come about, that the result of the 1971-72 Budget would be that there would be no reduction in the rate of inflation but a great increase in unemployment in Australia. I said that other countries had tried surplus budgeting in order to overcome the problem of inflation but it had not worked in controlling inflation and had increased the level of unemployment. I feel vindicated now in having made that statement last year. 
This points up a very vital difference between the attitudes of the Australian Labor Party and its opponents because at any time in the next year, if the worst comes to the worst and the LiberalCountry Party Government is re-elected, the Government is quite prepared to do anything to try to control inflation even if it means increasing the number of unemployed in Australia. That is something that the Australian Labor Party will not do. We are not prepared to increase the level of unemployment; unemployment is not an acceptable weapon against anything. Our present unemployment situation has been the precise effect of the 1971-72 Budget, but it is interesting that the Budget not only increased the level of unemployment but it also has not been effective in controlling the level of inflation. Last year the Government said that the rate of inflation over the previous year had been 6 per cent. In his Budget Speech the other night the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out that the rate of inflation was 6.1 per cent. 
It is no accident that the rate of inflation is still high. What happened was that there was a surplus Budget, a Budget deliberately conceived to bring about a recession in the Australian economy last year. The immediate effect of it was a reduction in personal consumption expenditure. If we look at the Treasury White Paper on the Australian economy we can see that that is just what happened. In 1969-70 the percentage increase in personal consumption expenditure over the previous year was 5.5 per cent. By the time of the Budget of last year it can be seen that personal consumption expenditure was already on the way down because the increase in that expenditure had been only 2,5 per cent. Of course, it was given an almighty clout by the Budget last year, and so it went down even further. The rate of increase of personal expenditure went down to 1.8 per cent and it is just starting to pick up now. 
If one looks at capital expenditure one will see that for the first time in some time there has been a very substantial decline in the rate of private gross fixed capital expenditure at constant prices. There was a fall of 10.6 per cent in the last financial year. With this reduction in consumption expenditure and capital expenditure there was decreased throughput in industry. This caused a lot of people to be laid off and a lot of idle capacity in factories. As a result1 of unit costs of goods going up, prices still kept going up. So it was no accident that the reduced demand and reduced employment were associated not with cost-push but with what has been called slumppush - I think it is a very fitting term - and costs continued to go up. 
The increase in costs has often been blamed on high wages, but that is only a very small part of the story. In fact, I suspect that if wages had not gone up as much as they did last year we might have found that price rises were even worse. What happens when wages go up is that at least there is money in people's pockets and there is sufficient demand to enable the turnover and sale of goods. It is not productivity that determines prosperity as much as it is sales. If sales go down, unit costs go up and prices go up. In spite of this, one would have thought that the Government would have welcomed an increase in wages this year when things were going badly and there was not enough money in people's pockets. Yet when the Government went to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it did not argue for just a small wage rise; it said that there should be no increase at all in the total wage this year. I suspect that if the Government had had its way and the Commission had not granted an increase in the national wage, things would have been even worse. Unemployment would have been worse. I suspect that, in spite of the increased wage costs that accrued from the national wage case, the increased demand might have been sufficient to offset that through the lower unit costs. 
So I take the opposite view to that of the honourable member for Bradfield. Wages themselves are not entirely a costpush factor. Sometimes they help in a paradoxical way to reduce prices. A year ago in the Budget debate I predicted that there would be an increase in the rate of unemployment and a continued rise in the rate of inflation. Now we see a  2  per cent increase in inflation. Last December in this House I accurately predicted that if we tried to stimulate the economy again we would not necessarily find a reduction in unemployment. The balancing act that the honourable member for Bradfield talked about does not seem to work anymore. Earlier this year a mini Budget was brought down but it was not successful in getting people back to work. We still have  a  rate of  2  per cent unemployment and inflation is still continuing. I might have to eat my words next year, but I suspect that the often predicted effect of this Budget may not be quite what is commonly anticipated. Many people say that this Budget will cause inflation and that it will get people back to work. I wonder whether it will do that.  1  wonder whether the rate of inflation will not be as great as we might expect. I think we might find that it will just use up existing idle capacity, improve unit costs and perhaps help to lower prices somewhat. I feel, unfortunately, that it will not be as successful as we would all like in getting people back to work. The reason for this is increased productivity which the Government talks about so much. Increased productivity, if you have the same amount of output, will result in reduced employment. If manufacturers are investing more in plant, that might reduce the level of employment. 
Let me quote an interesting passage from Robert Theobald on this subject. He said: 
The process can be summarised as follows: Created demand will lead to purchases of highly efficient and productive machine systems that need few men to control them . . . Thus, in the relatively near future, a policy of forcing rapid growth in demand in order to increase employment opportunities  will  actually lead to the opposite result: It will raise unemployment rather than lower it. 
The message I want to state is that pure budgetary and monetary policies are no longer sufficient for trying to achieve a full employment economy. Other measures are necessary. Let me mention just  2  that I feel are very important. The first is in relation to structural unemployment and retraining, and the second is in relation to immigration. This morning the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  introduced some further schemes for adult retraining. I suspect that they may not be any more successful than were the last ones. As we know, the last schemes that the Government introduced for workers replaced by technological change and automation were complete failures. Practically no workers knew anything about them or were able to avail themselves of the benefits. The same sort of thing could happen here because the Government does not go out and sell the scheme. I felt that many people who could have been helped by the previous schemes had never heard of them. The Government has to take over, lt must investigate every industry which is subject to the changes of automation and try to seek out those workers who are likely to be displaced by automation, and do its utmost to retrain them, rehouse them, even move them from one city to another if necessary. But it does not seem to be prepared to do this. Unless we have a major, radical overhaul of our approach to the problems of automation, I fear we will have a chronic problem of unemployment in this country. 
The other matter to which I want to refer is immigration. I believe that at this stage it is reckless for the Government to embark on a programme of bringing  140,000  migrants here this year. I do not know whether Ministers ever attend their electorate offices. I think some have people standing in for them. However, most of us who attend our electorate offices have probably had people coming there saying that they had come out from Europe. They had seen advertisements telling them to come to Australia where they could get jobs but when they had come here the jobs were not available. It is not fair to the work force in Australia and it is not fair to those people who are being brought here. It is a confidence trick. I believe that the target figure of  140,000  for this year is completely unrealistic. 
I would now like to refute a couple of things that have been said in the last few weeks by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Bradfield said that one of the troubles with unemployment is high wages. Conservative governments have been saying for 50 years that the workers are pricing themselves out of a job. That is not so. It is only by increased wages that workers are ever able to buy things. If they do not buy things, people will not employ them to manufacture things. I believe that this is fundamental. Last week the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  asked a question of the Minister for Labour and National Service. This is another favourite old chestnut of the Minister. He said that the lion's share of loss of production in Australia is due to strikes. I have just taken out a few figures on this and I find that over the last year the loss of production in Australia due to industrial disputes was 0.24 per cent - less than one-quarter per cent of the gross national product - but the loss due to the Budget of 1971-72, where we had a growth rate of 3 per cent compared with a possible 5 per cent, was 10 times as much as from industrial disputes. Therefore, my point is that if strikes are a serious cause of loss of wages and loss of production in Australia the 1971-72 Budget, which caused 10 times the loss of production and 10 times the loss of wages, is 10 times as serious. If the workers are to blame - I do not believe they are - for the industrial disputes that have happened, the Government is 10 times more culpable. 
Nobody likes strikes, least of all the strikers themselves. To hear LiberalCountry Party members speak, one would think that workers actually enjoy not working and not collecting their pay. It is the striker who is the first one to suffer because he suffers loss of take home pay. The trouble is that not enough sympathy is shown by members of the Liberal Party throughout Australia for the problems that lead to industrial disputes. The honourable member for Bradfield asked: 'What has the Labor Party to offer?' What we offer is sympathy for the people in their grievances. If the Liberal Party were prepared to show a bit of sympathy sometimes, there would be fewer disputes. 
Let me talk about the much publicised dispute on Kangaroo Island. In spite of the fact that a Federal award was involved, representatives of the South Australian Government went to Kangaroo Island and did their best to reach a reasonable agreement with the farmers on the Island. However, this endeavour was undermined and I suspect - it is an open secret - that it was undermined by members of the Liberal and Country Parties, including some members of the Liberal Movement, who were deliberately trying to exploit the situation for cynical political advantage. 
They did all sorts of things. I will tell the House what else they did. They put out a bogus petition calling for a vote of no-confidence in the trade unions. What has the honourable member to say about the trade unionists who were intimidated into signing that petition? They were told that they would not get a job any more if they did not sign the petition. What did the Federal Government do about it? These workers were operating under a Federal award and the Federal Government did nothing, except try to keep the dispute going because it thought it would further its narrow political aims. 
That is not the only thing that was done in the Kangaroo Island dispute. Evidence has been presented to me that victimisation occurred of at least one person who joined the Australian Workers Union on Kangaroo Island. He was intimidated and told that in future there would not be any job available for him. He was told this by one farmer there because he had informed on the non-union shearers so that the union organiser could go and hunt them up. He was told that his services would no longer be required and that he would be best off if he left the Island. This is the sort of victimisation that people on the opposite side of this Parliament revel in. In contrast, if a dispute is on, Labor governments always try to seek the cause of the problem. What happened in the rubber dispute last year in South Australia? There was what seemed to be an intractable dispute, but the South Australian Minister of Labour and Industry went and consulted the individual strikers to find out what their grievance was and in a very short space of time the whole problem was resolved. 
What happened in the oil strike? The oil companies wanted to negotiate, but the Government would not let them. The Government leaned on them and said: 'We will not continue the agreement under which we feather-bed the oil cartels and prop them up at the expense of IOC Australia Pty Ltd and XL Petroleum Pty Ltd, the cut-price companies, unless you refuse to negotiate with the unions'. So, the protracted oil dispute was the fault of the Federal Government. It is the guilty one who caused the strike for political purposes. There is no question about that. I went down and spoke to some of the people on strike in my electorate. What did the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  do? I wonder whether, during the long weeks of that oil strike, he ever spoke to any of the unionists on strike and asked them what their grievance was. I wonder whether any honourable member opposite really knows what the reason was for the unionists refusing to accept the interim decision of  Mr Justice  Moore. I will bet that none of them has any idea. They are not even interested. All they were interested in was keeping the strike going and tormenting it for their own cynical, political purposes. They will get theirs when the election comes at the end of this year. 
 I should like to protest at the repeated absence from this House of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  when any debate takes place over which the Treasurer nominally is in charge. This comment is not meant to cast aspersions on the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  who is at the table and who, I know, has a profound knowledge of economic matters. As far as 1 know, apart from his own address when introducing the Budget, the Treasurer has not come into the House during the entire Budget debate. This time, we  do  not even have the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  in the House. 1 think it is a little rough that we cannot engage in meaningful debate with the Minister who presented the Bill or, better still, with the Treasurer himself. Most other Ministers come into the House when a Bill of which they are in charge is being debated. ] think that it is not too much to ask the same of the Treasurer. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  posed a number of questions which I will not have time to go into in very much detail. It is interesting to note that he regards suggestions  of  help for urban development and public transport as being  t&gt; '&lt;y of gobWp.de-  gook. Perhaps that is something He will mention to his constituents when  he is  up on the hustings before the forthcoming election. 
Mir Hurford - We will be drawing it to the attention of his constitutents 
No doubt. The honourable member for Boothby also made passing reference to the last national wage case. For some reason he tried to describe the Australian Labor Party's attitude. I do not know why he did that, because the Australian Labor Party was not a respondent or a claimant in the national wage case. I do not see what it had to do with us at all. But I do say that it is rather interesting that the honourable member refrained from mention ing the role of the Commonwealth Government in the national wage case. As everyone knows, that was a very shabby role indeed. It is small wonder that the honourable member for Boothby made no reference to it. As everyone knows, what actually happened was that the Commonwealth Government went to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and submitted that there should be no increase whatever in the total wage this year. It is small wonder that the honourable member for Boothby did not bother to mention that. 
He asked a number of questions about where the money would come from to finance Labor's proposals. 1 suppose it is rather difficult for somebody with the wit, or lack of it, of the honourable member for Boothby to try to understand how these proposals would be financed when he thinks entirely within the framework of conservative thinking. I suppose he does not even really understand how his own Government has financed its proposals in this or any other Budget. I wonder whether he knows about the fiddle which goes on annually in the Budget Papers in respect of what is known as the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. A book entry is made to convert what is in fact a large budgetary surplus into this Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve which is lent to the State governments at the prevailing rate of interest. In this way the Commonwealth has managed to transfer all its debts, which were quite considerable at the end of the Second World War, to the State governments, which are now saddled with large debt burdens. The same applies to local governments. At the same time the Commonwealth Government has been able to finance all its public works out of revenue. By this fiddle the Government has been able to finance much of its own activities. But I doubt whether the honourable member for Boothby knows about that. I think we have to throw off all the shackles of conservative thinking. This will be possible only under a progressive government, which I hope will take office after the next election. 
I shall make a few general remarks about the income tax schedule which is being amended under one of the Bills which we are debating at the moment. The Government has alleged that it gives greatest help to those in greatest need. The Treasurer produced a table which showed that the largest percentage reduction in taxation accrues to those on the lowest income. Of course, if that were the end of the story that would be very laudable. However, that is not the end of the story. If we have a closer look at the papers which were issued by the Treasurer with the Budget we see that the absolute reduction in income tax is greatest for those with higher levels of income. The same applies to the table which was produced by Professor Hogan, who is- 
 Thank you. Professor Hogan shows quite clearly that the most important parameter, namely the increase in after tax income, is greatest for those on the highest income. So, in this sense, this is a rich man's Budget. 
Tonight I want to make some constructive criticisms. I will come to them in a moment. I do not want to make endless carping criticisms. I will be the first to concede that some very valuable innovations are contained in the Budget that was brought down a couple of weeks ago. The Labor Party believes that a complete overhaul of the taxation schedule is necessary. As my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  has pointed out, we believe that the people on the national minimum wage or thereabouts should not be paying any taxation. 
I want to deal mainly with the question of taxation concessional deductions. I know that this matter is fraught with danger because when my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, merely mentioned as an example the sort of inequities that were taking place with deductions for life insurance, the Treasurer tried to misrepresent his remarks by saying that he would cancel those concessional deductions should he become Treasurer of Australia. Similarly, I suppose, we all remember the Treasurer having his fingers burned earlier this year when he flew a kite about taxing families rather than individual units within a family. 
I believe that concessional deductions are highly repressive and must be looked at in a completely different light. I have taken out some figures which have been derived from the taxation statistics of 1969-70. I refer, firstly, to the total amount of concessional deduction claimed by various income groups - from the group earning $417 to $599 a year all the way up to the $30,000 a year and over group. According to the statistics, the greater the income the greater the amount claimed in concessional deductions. It increases with the amount of income. In other words, there is a greater total for educational, health and insurance deductions and for land tax. council rates, water rates and so on. I will not seek to incorporate in Hansard the details because there are quite a number of figures and I want to get down to more detail. For example, in the lowest income range of $417 to $599 actual income per annum, the average amount claimed in concessional deductions per taxpayer is $15. In the group earning from $2,800 to $3,000 a year the total amount claimed is $563. Those in the $20,000 to $30,000 a year bracket claimed an average of $4,453 a year which is a mighty big amount. I suggest that there is a lot of inequity and that a lot of people are getting away with perks and lurks. 
Regarding medical expenses, I have taken figures out in relation to the man who earns about $60 a week - that is the person in the income range of $2,800 to $3,000 per year. In this case the average deduction for each person in that bracket for medical expenses - that is, for claims for medical and hospital fund contributions, doctors' bills and hospital bills minus Commonwealth and health fund benefits - is $113 a year. But in the $10,000 to $12,000 a year bracket the average deduction per taxpayer is $225 a year. In other words it is twice as much for the person on the lower income. 1: would seem, therefore, that the person on twice the income has twice the medical expenses. I suppose that that should mean that he is twice as healthy but, unfortunately with the medical system we have in Australia cost does not seem to be related to health or anything else. In fact, what these figures really show is that the person on a higher income can afford to go into a private ward of a hospital and pay a private specialist. I suppose we would not deny anybody the right to do that, but I wonder whether he should get this extra subsidy equivalent from the taxpayer for the right to do this. 
If we go up into the very top income, bracket- that is, the $60,000 to $100,000 income bracket - we find that the average deduction foi medical expenses is $615 How can people in this bracket spend an average of $613? At that rate it sounds ti me as though everybody in that income range has had a heart transplant performed by a private surgeon, and 1 doubt whether that is the case. I think that in many cases the reason for this high figure might be that people in the higher income brackets declare, without having to substantiate it. a large amount for medical expenses ami they are not questioned by the Commissioner. 1 think this is something that could be looked at much more closely. However the position is even worse than that. I have said that the tax deduction from taxable income is twice as much for the person on $10,000 a year as it is for the person on $3,000 a year. If we look at the tax saving, the disparity is even more marked because the person on $2,800 to $3,000 a year claims a deduction of $113 and, at his marginal rate of tax, his tax saving is $24. For the person in the $10,000 to $12,000 a year bracket his $225 concessional deduction gives him a tax saving of $108. In other words, this is a subsidy from Com monwealth revenue which works out to b: 4 times as much for the person on the highe income. He receives 4 times as much from the Commonwealth government to go to a private doctor or a private ward as does the person on about $60 per week to go to a public ward or to be treated at a public hospital. 
The same situation applies to educational expenses. The figures in relation to educational expenses are rather interesting because we find that there is a plateau as we go up the income range. Up to about the $4,000 a year range everybody claims between $72 and $82 per child per year. After that the rate starts to climb. I suspect the reason for that is that as people get out of the $5,000 a year bracket they tend more and more to send their children to fee paying schools and they spend more and more money on education. If we go back to our $60 per week man again, we find that he claims $79 per child per year, but the bloke on $10,000 to $12,000 a year claims $155 per child per year, which is almost twice as much. If we look at the tax saved, the person who claims a deduction of $79 from his taxable income at the lower level that I mentioned has a tax saving of $17, whereas the person on the higher income has a tax saving of $79, which is more than 4 times the tax saving of the person on the lower income. Frankly, I do not think it is politically possible for either the Australian Labor Party or the crowd opposite to do away with concessional deductions, but I do think it is possible to introduce some reform to bring about a greater degree of equity. I think what could be done is to allow a standard deduction which is something like the deduction given for dependants, except that it should be a flat deduction from tax payable. 
If we look at the deductions for dependants, we find that the situation is a little fairer because everybody gets the same concessional deduction from taxable income. Everybody now can deduct $260 for the first child, irrespective of income. Unfortunately, the same inequalities arise because of the difference in the marginal rate of tax. The person with one child and earning $60 a week - that is, $2,800 to $3,000 a year - will receive a tax saving of $52. The man in the $10,000 to $12,000 a year range with one child will receive a tax saving of $125. Surely the fair thing would be to allow everybody the same deduction from tax payable, not only for dependants' deductions but also for other things such as medical expenses, educational expenses, council rates, water rates and so on. 1 think that if this were done we would be able not only to get some equity into the system but also to obtain a certain amount of extra revenue which we could use for selective benefits. 
Today I have received from the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  answers to questions which I placed on notice. I have not sought leave to have them incorporated in Hansard because they will be included in the answers to questions upon notice in today's Hansard. But they point out the amount that could be saved under the type of arrangement that I have advocated. For instance, concessional deductions for children cost the revenue SI 70m a year. That estimate is based on income tax statistics for 1970-71 income year when the national minimum wage was $2,309 a year. At that marginal rate of tax concessional deductions represented a tax saving of $41.57 for the first child and $29.94 for subsequent children. What I am suggesting is that if this standard deduction from tax payable, at the marginal rate of tax for an income equal to the national minimum wage, had been allowed to everybody, it would have meant a saving to revenue of about $55m. If we applied the same principle to the wife's allowance, if we gave everybody a standard deduction from tax payable, at the marginal rate of tax for an income equal to the national minimum wage, instead of allowing a deduction of $312 for a wife, it would mean a tax saving of about $70 for the wife. If everybody received a tax saving of about $70 for the wife, based on the figures for 1970-71, there would be a saving to revenue of $18m. 
I suggest that if this saving to revenue could be made we could spend the money on providing selective benefits to those most in need of them. I think that the family area is the most critical area of need. We could make a payment to large families where mothers have young children and are unable to work. These mothers could be paid a small wage so that they could stay at home and look after their young children or, if they preferred, they could go out to work. We might be able to provide selective benefits to the low income families so that their children could be sent to proper child minding centres, not just somewhere where the children are plonked in front of a television set all day. I think that this would be a very good way in which to rectify these social inequalities. 
The same thing could be done in the case of tax deductions from tax payable for local government water and sewerage rates. There could be a standard deduction. The answer which I received from the Treasurer shows that $21m could be saved to revenue in this way. We could spend that money on selective benefits. We might be able to give money to the poorer sections in the outer metropolitan areas which, as honourable members know, have rate problems, or we might be able to give money to low income families or to pensioners to help them to pay their rates. The same principle could apply to educational expenses. There would be a saving to revenue of $23m a year, which I think could be used to give selective benefits to government schools or to poor parish schools in special areas of need. I think that perhaps I had better conclude on that note as I do not have time to start on any new matter. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government decide recently not to contribute to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities; if so, why? 
What would have been the sum involved if the Government had decided to contribute? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated annual loss to Commonwealth revenue of the standard deduction from taxable income for a first child of $208 and subsequent children of $156 for the latest year for which figures are available. 
What is the tax saving on $208 and $156 to a taxpayer earning the present national minimum wage. 
What would be the loss to revenue, compared with the revenue obtained from the abolition of the deduction from taxable income for dependent children, if that deduction was replaced by a standard deduction from tax payable of the amount given in answer to part (2). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated annual loss to Commonwealth revenue of deductions from taxable income for education expenses for the latest year for which figures are available. 
What was the average deduction from taxable income for educational expenses per taxpayer earning the national minimum wage or less for the same year. 
What is the tax saving on the figure for the average deduction from taxable income in the answer to part (2) at the marginal rate of tax paid by a person earning the present national minimum wage. 
What would be the loss to revenue, compared with the revenue obtained from the complete abolition of educational deductions, if deductions from taxable income for educational expenses were replaced by a standard deduction from tax payable per dependant of the amount given in answer to part (3). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated annual loss to Commonwealth revenue of deductions from personal taxable income for local government, water and sewerage rates for the latest year for which figures are available. 
What was the average deduction from personal taxable income for local government, water and sewerage  rates per taxpayer paying such rates, earning the national minimum wage oi less, for the same year. 
What is the tax saving on the figure for the average deduction from taxable income in the answer to part (2) at the marginal rate of tax paid by a person earning the present national minimum wage. 
What would be the loss to revenue, compared with the revenue obtained from abolition of taxation deductions for local government, water and sewerage rates, if such deductions of taxable income were replaced by a standard deduction from tax payable of the amount given in answer to part (3). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated annual loss to Commonwealth revenue of the standard deduction for a wife of $312 from taxable income for the latest year for which figures are available. 
What is the tax saving on $312 to a taxpayer earning the present national minimum wage. 
What would be the loss of revenue, compared with the revenue obtained from the abolition of the wife's allowance, if that allowance was replaced by a standard deduction from tax payable of the amount given in answer to part (2). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 5306 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 21st March 1972. 
ls the Treasurer aware that his colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, has indicated that environmental impact statements will be prepared on the effects of any Government measures but only if the responsible Ministers request them? Has the Treasurer had an environmental impact statement prepared on air pollution and other sequelae of the imposition of tax on liquefied gas? If not, will he have such a statement prepared and have its contents made public? If he will not do so, why not? 
I am sorry that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is not in the chamber because I want to take a little further the matter raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It relates to the speech made in the week before the recent weeks recess by the Minister for Customs and Excise. During his speech, the Minister criticised the honourable member for Adelaide for the remarks he had made. He alleged that the honourable member for Adelaide on the previous night had made a scurrilous attack - that is what he called it - on himself and, furthermore, he accused the honourable member for Adelaide of making an attack on members of the Department of Customs and Excise. So I was most interested later that night to read the speech that the honourable member for  Adelaide  had made the night before on that subject. 
I found that all that the honourable member for Adelaide had done, in a perfectly proper manner, was to make a speech criticising the policy of the Government in oil pricing. I will admit that the honourable member criticised the administration by the Minister for Customs and Excise of that policy. However, it was not in any way a personal attack by the honourable member for Adelaide on the Minister for Customs and Excise. I have heard much stronger attacks made  on  Ministers. I probably have heard them made in this House today and nobody  took  much exception to them. As for the claim in the Minister's speech the week before last that the honourable member for Adelaide had criticised officers of the Department of Customs and Excise, I cannot find the vaguest reference in the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide  to  officers of the Department of Customs and Excise. It seems to me that if anybody made a personal attack it was the Minister for Customs and Excise and not the honourable member for Adelaide. 
Furthermore, as the honourable member for Adelaide has just said, the Minister did not answer any of the charges that were made by the honourable member for Adelaide. This is an important matter because we are talking about a most important area of Government policy. The main charge that was made by the honourable member for Adelaide was that in the price war that is going on between the big oil companies - what we might call the cartel - and the little companies, namely XL Petroleum Pty Ltd and IOC Australia Ply Ltd, the Government is coming down on the side of the big oil companies against the little ones. The Minister  did  not seem to have denied those charges anywhere. In fact, later in his speech the week before  last,  the Minister  more  or less said that the Government was justified to act on behalf  of  the big cartels because he  said they  were looking after the  little  blokes - that is, the people who work in refining, marketing and distributing oil for the big companies. The Minister for Customs and Excise did not explicitly deny the charges. In fact, he justified them. So, it appears to me that the Minister for Customs and Excise was virtually pleading guilty to the charges made by the honourable member for Adelaide. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise sought to justify the action of the Government in coming in on the side of the big oil companies by saying that this would help the people employed in the industry in refining and marketing. The argument that the Minister put foward is completely fallacious for 2 very good reasons. I might say first of all that the Government requires XL to take a certain amount of Australian crude oil. However, the refiners will not take the share from XL and IOC except at artificially high prices. The result of this is that XL is stockpiling its Australian crude; it is just lying idle. If the Australian refiners would take the crude oil from XL and refine it, surely this would provide not decreased but increased employment opportunities and prosperity for the employees in the Australian refining industry. 
The imports of refined petroleum by XL and IOC will not pose any threat to the marketing and distribution by the big oil companies because it is only a tiny fraction of the total amount of petroleum sold in Australia. So, there is no threat that there will be any significant inroads into the market of the big companies by the little companies. I think that the 2 arguments put up by the Minister for Customs and Excise are completely fallacious. Another matter that disturbed me particularly is the question of dumping securities. XL has to put up cash securities in advance on imports of petroleum from overseas. This was done without a hearing by the Tariff Board. In fact, no reference was made by the Government to the Board until about 6 months after these prices had been set. I understand that is a completely unusual practice and it seems to me that it is distinctly discriminatory against small companies. 
As I said, I believe this is a most important matter. It has special relevance, particularly if we examine the history of what happened in the recent oil strike that took place during the last parliamentary recess. I think most honourable members would have seen the interview that took place on ABC television between  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  At that time,  Mr Hawke  alleged - I believe correctly - that the disputes that were then current between the oil companies and the unions and between Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the Transport Workers Union were caused by the Government. He alleged that the Government put pressure on the employers to stop them from making negotiated agreements with the unions.* As proof that this actually occurred, in the case of Ansett,  Mr Hawke  produced a document from a senior employee in the Ansett organisation to establish that in fact the Government had put pressure on Ansett to stop them negotiating. The Government said: 'You must arbitrate.' 

 Mr Hawke also established that there was circumstantial evidence that the same thing happened with the oil companies. As was their usual practice, the oil companies offered to negotiate with the unions earlier this year, but because it was an election year the Government said to the oil companies: 'We do not want you to negotiate. We want you to go to arbitration.' The reason is that the Government wanted a dispute to take place. The Government likes strikes, lt likes people being thrown out of work. It likes people being inconvenienced, because the Government believes that this helps it electorally and that is all that matters to this cynical Government. When  Mr Hawke  said at this interview that he believed that the Government had intervened to stop the oil companies negotiating with the unions, the Minister for Labour and National Service said that that was not so. He said that the Government had no power to put any pressure on the oil companies to stop them negotiating. 
I believe that this cosy arrangement between the Government and the oil companies shows very clearly that the Government was in a very powerful position to say to the oil companies: 'We do not want you to negotiate. You must make it an arbitrated settlement, an agreement 
* See page 1402. imposed on the employees in the oil industry.' The Government was able to do this by threatening the oil companies and saying: 'If you go ahead with negotiations we will stop this arrangement under which we featherbed the big oil cartels at the expense of IOC and XL.' I believe that that is the threat the Government was able to use and did use deliberately to bring about an industrial dispute which threw a lot of people out of work and which caused a lot of dislocation of the Australian economy. The fault is fairly and squarely that of the Government- 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
How much Commonwealth finance has been made available to the Foundation of Aboriginal Affairs in Sydney in each year since the Foundation's inception. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in The Review, 27th May-2nd June 1972, (a) that the present manager of the Foundation has abolished the Foundation's welfare program and cancelled such things as providing amenities for showering and shaving or a free meal for welfare cases who needed help to get back their self-respect and dignity before looking for a job or housing and (b) that the second floor of the building used by the Foundation, once used as emergency accommodation for Aboriginals in need, has been converted into a comfortable apartment for the present manager and his family at an alleged cost of $7,900; if so, will he investigate these allegations. 
Was a meeting of the Foundation, called to discuss a move to dismiss the present manager, not held because the executive refused to convene it, in spite of the fact that 10 signatories, as required by the Constitution of the Foundation, requested the meeting. 
If the allegations in parts (2) and (3) are correct, will he take whatever action is necessary to ensure that Commonwealth funds appropriated for Aboriginal welfare are spent as the Parliament intended. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement to correct the Hansard report. 
I intervene very briefly to refer to a few remarks made in this debate on the Treasury estimates 2 nights ago by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  about currency alignment. Far be it from me to speculate about the future alignment of the Australian currency. I think there is nothing surer than that after the next presidential election in the United States there will be a further reshuffle in the international currency situation. Whatever government is in power in Australia at that time, will have to make its decision according to the circumstances of the day. I cannot see how anybody really can speculate as to what the circumstances will be at that time, but I think it can be said that if an Australian Labor Party government is in power it will not allow itself to be stood over by the United States Government in the way that the United States Government stood over the other governments of the Western world one year ago when the Smithsonian agreement was made. I will come back to that in a moment. 
The honourable member for Angas suggested that a revaluation would achieve greater import competition. I would like to take the honourable member up on that suggestion because I think this is a matter which is open to serious doubt. Let me refresh his memory on what ' happened in 1967 when the pound sterling devalued against the Australian currency. At that time precious little impact was made on import competition in Australia, and this was so for a couple of very good reasons. In the first place - I think the same consideration might apply now - if we were to have a revaluation we might well find that the exporters in countries exporting goods to Australia immediately would put up their prices. That is the sort of thing that happened in 1967 when the United Kingdom devalued. The British exporters put up their prices which meant really that there was no difference. But even if they did drop their prices, it still would depend on whether the Australian merchants reduced their retail margins. They might decide that the Australian market already has borne a certain price of an imported commodity and they have no incentive to reduce it. So if we are to have any reduction in import prices I think it will depend on those 2 things. 
If there is a relative revaluation of the Australian currency, this situation will depend, firstly, on what the overseas exporters do with their prices and, secondly, what the Australian retailers do with their margins. This is one reason why I think it is so important to remind the House and the people of Australia of the Australian Labor Party's policy to establish a Commonwealth prices tribunal. It is no use having a reduced import price if the end result is simply an increased profit to the Australian retailer. This is something which might have to be watched very closely by the Commonwealth prices tribunal which will be set up by the Labor government, which I think we confidently can anticipate with be coming into office within a very short time. 
Quite so. The other matter I want to raise concerns the currency realignment that took place 12 months ago. This is another matter that the honourable member for Angas raised. He suggested that we have to be good international citizens and toe the line by doing what the other countries do. This might be a valid point if the other countries met their part of the bargain as well. Last year - presumably because we had to be good international citizens - we revalued about 6.2 per cent, I think it was, against the United States dollar. There is no argument about that, I am sure, I would have thought that we would have been able to expect from our great and powerful ally, as a quid pro quo, a reduction in import duties on Australian wool since, as I understand it, America is the only country in the world that does levy import duties on Australian wool. Seeing that our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  went to the United States last year and alleged that he had a special working relationship with  President  Nixon, I would have thought that the very least he would have been able to get out of it was some deal on Australian wool in return for a revaluation of the Australian currency relative to the United States dollar. But no such thing took place. In that case 1 think that we were completely sold out and, if I might say so, the Australian Country Party completely sold out the Australian wool industry and should be condemned for it. It is a pity that has not happened before. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I thank the House for allowing me time to intervene briefly in this debate. The remarks of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  cannot be allowed to go unrebutted. He referred to the transfer of all the advertising work of the South Australian Government from the company which does the advertising for the Liberal Party in South Australia. The fact is that work done by Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson Pty Ltd in South Australia is done entirely by Australian employees, so it is not a question of work being transferred overseas. It is not true that all work has been transferred by all South Australian Government departments. At the present time about one-third of the advertising work of the South Australian Government and its departments is done by Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson Pty Ltd. It is also true that this firm does advertising work for the governments of Queensland and New South Wales or agencies of those governments. In fact, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been so impressed with the work of Hansen.RubensohnMcCann Erickson Pty Ltd that quite recently he endeavoured to steal that firm from the Australian Labor Party and have it do the work of the Federal Liberal Party. Fortunately that bid was not successful. 
The real reason why the honourable member for Boothby has made all these complaints is that he is backing the company which does all the advertising for the Liberal Party. I point out that, although under Labor one-third of the advertising work of the South Australian Government is performed by Hansen RubensohnMc.Cann Erickson Pty Ltd, under the previous Liberal Government in South Australia all the South Australian Government work was done by the agency that does the advertising for the Liberal Party in South Australia. In conclusion, it seems quite obvious that the reason why the media chose to ignore these remarks in their coverage of the matter last week was not any particular prejudice but the fact that they rightly assessed that the matter referred to by the honourable member for Boothby was completely trivial and irrelevant. 
I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
There are many reasons why the present health insurance system is unsatisfactory and why it must be completely scrapped and replaced by a universal health insurance scheme, as is the programme of the Australian Labor Party. I wish to deal with just one aspect of the present system to show why it is so unsatisfactory, namely, the inefficient use and the misappropriation of contributors' money by so-called voluntary health funds. Under the Labor plan money collected from contributors will be used to finance both private practitioners working on a fee for service basis and salaried doctors. Thus, there will be a salaried system working in parallel with private practitioners. If doctors and patients prefer a salaried service, finance will be available for such a service, but no-one will be forced into it. 
Under the present system, however, a salaried service is positively discouraged. For example, if a public hospital wishes to pay sessional fees or salaries to its consultant staff no assistance is given by the Commonwealth. I believe that a salaried service is incomparably better from a public health viewpoint. But even if this Government disagrees with this surely it should allow people a choice between the 2 systems. 
Recently an example of this type of discrimination was brought to my attention by the Family Planning Association of South Australia, which runs a clinic in an Adelaide suburb. A representative of the Association told me that, because the doctor working at the clinic was not in private practice and did not send out accounts to the patients in his own name, no medical benefits could be paid for services at that clinic. I wrote to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  about this matter. I received a reply from the Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  Part of the reply which I received on 22nd June of this year reads: 
I have had this matter examined and I would advise that the Commonwealth Director of Health, Adelaide, has advised the  Assocaition  that Commonwealth benefits are payable for medical services given by or on behalf of a medical practitioner at their Clinic but that payment of fund medical benefit was subject to the rules of the individual medical organisations. 
I understand that the South Australian medical benefits organisations have recommended that they do not pay amounts of fund benefit because the charges are raised by the Family Planning Association and not by medical practitioners in private practice. 
As this recommendation is in conformity with the rules of the funds, patients who contribute to organisations with this particular rule, will receive payment of the amounts of Commonwealth benefits only. 
The Government might say that this is not its concern as long as it pays the Commonwealth benefit and that whether the fund pays the benefit is up to the fund itself. This argument and the Minister's reply are completely unacceptable. It should be remembered that people are really forced into these funds because if they do not join the Government denies them Commonwealth benefits. The funds operate under the National Health Act. It is the Commonwealth's responsibility to ensure that the contributors' money is not unreasonably denied to them. 
Why should a contributor be denied payment just because the doctor is not in private practice? The funds seem to be a law unto themselves, with a vested interest in private enterprise medicine. I fail to see how anyone can possibly justify a contributor being denied the choice of going to a non-private practice clinic if he so wishes. It is not without significance that these funds have doctors on their boards of directors. In fact, I had the greatest difficulty some 3 years ago in finding out who actually were the directors of one fund - the Mutual Hospital Association. I eventually got the answer by putting a question on the notice paper. The answer which I received from the Acting Minister for Health revealed that on 30th June 1970 the board of directors of that fund included 2 doctors, one of whom is a past  president  of the Australian Medical Association. It is worth recalling the attitude of that body to a salaried medical service. It is small wonder then that this medical fund denies the use of contributors' money to pay benefits for services provided by doctors who are not in private practice. 
It is also of passing interest that as at 30th June 1970 the  chairman  of the board of directors of the Mutual Hospital Association was  Mr Ian  MacLachlan, who is the current  President  of the Liberal-Country League in South Australia. It is small wonder that the Acting Minister for Health was so vigorous in defending such organisations earlier today. I wonder how many contributors realise that their money is being held in these circumstances. How many contributors to health funds realise that their money is being used for political purposes, by such bodies as the so-called Voluntary Health Insurance Council which is a political lobby trying to retain the present system and opposing Labor policies? How many people realise that part of the money that they contribute to purchase health care is being used for political purposes? It might be asked: What redress does the contributor have? Can he change the rules of the fund? At least in the case of the fund I mentioned the contributors have no say at all in framing the policies of the fund. Perhaps a contributor can do what the Acting Minister suggested this morning at question time. He said: 'If he is unhappy let him change funds.' But that makes no difference because, as is clearly shown in the letter from the Minister which I have quoted, all the funds, or at least those in South Australia, are the same; they all refuse to pay benefits to a doctor who is not in private practice. 
The only form of redress to the contributor is to change the Government which allows and even encourages this absurd system. It is imperative that a truly public, universal health insurance commission be set up which will be fully accountable and fully answerable to the public. I conclude what I wanted to say by making reference to something which was raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who said the Australian medical system was the best in the world. I do not know on what basis he made that claim, but I think what we must really go on is the quality of health care and the standard of health in the community. As far as I can see we have no firm means of measuring the standard of health care in Australia. This is one of the big criticisms: We have not taken enough trouble to try to carry out an audit of the health care that is available in Australia. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard paragraph 61 of the report called 'General practice and its future in Australia', which is the first report of the AMA study group on medical planning. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
... we make a comparison between figures for each decade from Australia, England and Wales, Sweden and the U.S.A. for the year 1966. Differences in infant mortality are apparent with Sweden lowest and the U.S.A. highest of the four countries. It is noticeable that between the ages of 5 and 45 Australia and the U.S.A. have  age specific rates (per 100,000) considerably in excess of Sweden and the United Kingdom. After the age of 45, the rates in England approximate to those of Australia due to rises in deaths from heart and lung diseases, which are not seen in Sweden. Eventually all the countries come together by age 75+. Noticeable also is the absence of the peak age 15-24 in Sweden and the U.K. compared with U.SA. and Australia due to much higher deaths due to accidents in the latter two countries. These age specific rates indicate striking differences which do not justify any complacency about our health care system in Australia. It is, of course, true that Sweden has a homogeneous population, it is a compact small country, and it has an advanced comprehensive health and social security system. All these factors play a part in its low mortality rate - Sweden does provide a challenge to younger countries like Australia to emulate its health standards by an aggressive programme of prevention of major public health problems such as accidents, heart and lung disease, as well as an improved system of health care. 
I thank the Committee. This paragraph sets out that there is quite a big leeway for improvement in the quality of health care for the people of Australia. One further point on this matter has been raised in the recent statement by the  President  of the Australian Medical Association. He referred to the assertion by the Commonwealth Department of Health that if patients did not have to pay for medical services there would be an impossible increase in the utilisation of the medical services. I point out that the figures in the annual report of the Commonwealth Department of Health show that in the last 2 years there has been, as the Acting Minister for Health pointed out during question time this morning, a reduction in the proportion of medical fees paid by the patient from about 36 per cent to about 19 per cent. One would have expected, on the basis of AMA reasoning, that the utilisation of services would have increased; yet an examination of the annual report of the Commonwealth Department of Health will show that the number of services per person covered in that period increased by only just over 4 per cent, whereas there has been a much greater decrease in the absolute amount which has had to be paid by the patient. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  accused the Australian Labor Party of xenophobia or, in other words, a morbid fear of foreigners. The only person I know in this House who seems to have any xenophobic tendencies is the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  who spoke in that way last night when speaking on the estimates for the Department of Immigration. The Labor Party does not have a morbid fear of foreigners. Our objection is to the capitalist system as it works. We do not object to a foreign capitalist because he is a foreigner, although we might object to some of his practices as a capitalist. I think, as the record of previous Australian Labor governments, both Federal and State, has shown, the Labor Party is not opposed to the principle of foreign investment. We just believe that the time has come - in fact, we believe it came long ago - for Australia to take stock of where foreign investment is going so that for economic and non-economic reasons we will ensure that we do not have excessive control of Australian industries and resources in foreign hands. 
The  Deputy  Prime .Minister mentioned the debate on the South Australia-New South Wales pipeline which took place earlier today. He accused the Labor Party of opposing the tender being let to a Japanese company and said that a Japanese company might have more efficient management. The point that members of the Opposition wished to make in this case was that what was involved was the employment of Australians. Surely this is the most important thing. The prime goal in the employment policy of any government should be to ensure that it has full employment at home. I was rather shocked to hear that the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country seems to regard that as a secondary consideration. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister also said that the proposals of the Australian Labor Party in relation to foreign investment were ill considered. Those proposals have been very carefully considered over a long period of time. Perhaps one tribute to them is that they have largely been copied by the Government in formulating its own proposals. However, of course, the Government has not gone far enough, as was pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  2 days ago. He said that the Government had gone only half way in imposing negative-type strictures and that it was important, as the Labor Party realised - a Labor government would implement these proposals - to upgrade the activities of the Australian Industries Development Corporation so that Australia could take a more positive role in harnessing and mobilising Australian resources and capital to develop Australia. This is something that seems to be missing from the policy of the Government. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister did mention the Australian Industries Development Corporation which was developed by the present Government but we believe that the AIDC should adopt a more aggressive entrepreneurial function. This was recom mended by  Sir Alan  Westerman when he spoke before the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control and this is something that a Labor government would certainly do. Finally, the  Deputy  Prime Minister said that the Labor Party had laid down no criteria by which a Labor government could consider and decide whether a foreign investment or proposed takeover was beneficial. These proposals are very firmly laid down and, once again, they seem largely to have been copied by this Government in formulating its own policy. 
The main reason I have entered this debate is to ask the Government, as a matter of urgency, to refer a proposed takeover for examination. I refer to the proposed takeover of Clarkson Limited in Adelaide by Harris Scarfe Industrials Pty Ltd. Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicated that the new policy will be effective from last Tuesday and that, pending the formation of the independent authority, cases under reference will be examined by departmental officials. The company bidding for the takeover, Harris Scarfe Industrials Pty Ltd, has had only 6 shares issued. It appears to have close links with Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation Ltd, as the 2 directors of Harris Scarfe Industrials are the secretary and chief accountant of IMFC. A shareholder in Harris Scarfe is a director of IMFC Slightly more than 25 per cent of the equity in IMFC is held by the Royal Bank of Canada and approximately 23.5 per cent by the National Bank of Detroit. As well as equity, both banks have $800,000 in long term debentures with IMFC 
I understand that the money to finance the proposed takeover which will be on the basis of 85c cash per share will be raised locally. However, this would not negate the fact that it is a foreign takeover if effective control does, in fact, pass to the substantially foreign owned IMFC. In fact, it appears to have been quite a frequent occurrence recently for foreign takeovers to be financed by local capital raisings. I realise that foreign takeovers are not necessarily bad. Improved technology and managerial skills and increased markets may all result in improved employment prospects and improved wages and working conditions for employees. However, there is no good reason to suppose that any such benefit will flow from this takeover. The bidder in this case has been involved in a number of recent takeovers in Adelaide, including the takeover of Colton Palmer and Preston Ltd and of Cox-Foys. I have discussed this matter with officials of 3 of the unions involved - the Storemen and Packers Union, the Transport Workers Union and the Federated Clerks Union. Each of these officials has told me that these previous takeovers have resulted in reduced employment prospects, and that their members employed by Clarkson Ltd were deeply concerned at the possibility of losing their jobs as a result of this proposed takeover. The Secretary of one union advised me that he has received assurances from one of the shareholders in Harris Scarfe Industrials - that is the director of IMFC - that there is no intention of reducing the size of the workforce. However, one of his union members has told him that shortly after a similar assurance was given at the time of the Colton Palmer and Preston takeover, that union member was retrenched. 
Another aspect of this matter which is a cause for concern is the reduced competition which must result if this series of takeovers is to continue in South Australia in the marketing of hardware and building goods. In fact we may eventually find that a monopoly situation has developed. I am sure that if the Government will refer this matter for consideration to the interim body - that is at departmental level - it will have the support of the employees of Clarkson Ltd. On Monday of last week a meeting was convened by  Mr Marinoff,  Secretary of the Storemen and Packers Union, and  Mr Fisher  of the Transport Workers Union, at Clarkson Ltd at Beverley. The following resolution was carried unanimously. 
This mass meeting of employees at Clarkson Limited, wish to voice strong opposition to foreign capital being invested in the alleged takeover of the company. Because of strong employer-employee relations, we appeal to the shareholders before making a final decision to consider the personal attitude now being expressed at this meeting. In the event of the shareholders decision being contrary to the wishes of this meeting and a takeover is negotiated a guarantee for the future employment should be given. 
At a further meeting at Clarksons on the 20th - that is Wednesday of last week - convened by the Industrial Officer of the Federated Clerks Union, the following resolution was passed: 
This meeting of clerks employed at Clarkson Limited, 'Beverley, views with grave concern the takeover bid of the firm and strongly urges directors and shareholders to resist such takeover bid and consider the livelihood of all employees, shareholders and directors is best served by preserving the company in its present form. 
This meeting expresses its support for the recommendation of directors to their shareholders to resist the takeover of Clarkson Limited. This meeting calls on the Federated Clerks Union to express the feeling of clerks to directors and to the Press to let the public be aware of their position. 
It is about 3 weeks since the proposals were first publicly announced. Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister indicated that proposals which were not referred within a month of the announcement of the proposed takeover would be free to proceed. That means that there is not much time left. I ask that the Government give this matter immediate consideration. I am not asking that the takeover necessarily be prevented. It could be that the interests of the workers involved and of the Royal Bank of Canada coincide. I do not know about that, but I believe that all aspects of the matter should be considered before the takeover is allowed to proceed. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  has said that Australia should be concerned primarily with Australia's welfare and that if we are not concerned with it nobody else will be. I want to speak about a matter which I believe is of paramount importance to Australia and that is our relationship with Papua New Guinea. We noted just before dinner the statement of the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock).  I believe it was a statement that everybody on this side of the House will welcome. Before very long we will be moving to a situation of self-government in Papua New Guinea. In fact, I think we really have a de facto self-government in New Guinea now. I think this is a tribute to the far-sighted, statesmanlike policies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  following upon his very much publicised, and at the time criticised, visit to Papua New Guinea 21 years ago. 
The present Minister is also to be congratulated on his performance since he has been Minister for External Territories but I think the way was really paved by the present Leader of the Opposition. 1 also think that if the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had been Prime Minister any earlier we may not have reached the situation in which we are today, because I think that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was probably pushed by the Leader of the Opposition into coming out in favour- of early selfgovernment and independence - for Papua New Guinea. With the present Prime Minister's incapacity to make any sort of decision at all, I very much doubt whether we would have reached the present situation if he had become Prime Minister a year earlier than he did, I think that that at least is some cause for satisfaction. 
I would like to say something about the military relationship of Australia with Papua New Guinea. I think this matter is of paramount importance because Papua New Guinea is our closest neighbour, because shortly, as I have said, it will achieve self-government and independence, because that independent country may have to face enormous economic and political problems and last but not least, because there are many Australian nationals who will be involved in any changeover that takes place. We must bear in mind a combination of 3 very important factors. The first is the forthcoming selfgovernment and what I call the present de facto self-government in " Papua New Guinea. The second is the existence of a number of separatist movements within Papua New Guinea itself. The best-known is probably the strong sentiment towards separatism in Bougainville. Some of its people want to form their own independent nation and others rather favour the idea of union with the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. A third factor is the existence of the Pacific Islands Regiment,  a  regiment which is using Australian weapons, has many Australian officers and non-commissioned officers and is in fact a part of the Australian Army. 
The present course of the coalition in New Guinea, I think, has been very tactful and discreet, and I have no quarrel with it. It is endeavouring to do its best to reach consensus. When I was in Papua New Guinea during the last recess I detected, I think, some feeling that the Government was being a little bit indecisive on some things. In the present situation I believe that this would be a virtue. It is probably preferable to err a little on the side of indecision rather than to take precipitate action in a situation which could become quite explosive. However, no matter how politically adroit the Government might be we cannot close our eyes to the possibility of a secessionist movement being in conflict with the government of an independent Papua New Guinea. It is far from impossible that in such a situation the Government of Papua New Guinea would want to use its army. We have to decide on whether we want to be involved, and if so, how much we want to be involved. What if there is a prolonged struggle? Do we want our own type of Vietnam? What are the Government's plans for such contingencies? 
A lot of attention must be given to what is to happen in such situations and whether we are doing everything possible to prevent their coming about. I appreciate that finding the answers is not easy, but whatever happens, if something goes wrong in Papua New Guinea, Australia rightly or wrongly will get some of the blame for it. We must still make a maximum effort to see that there is no interference by Australia in the internal affairs of Papua New Guinea after independence. Crucial to this effort will be the Pacific Islands Regiment, or whatever it will be termed after independence. I question the wisdom of maintaining the Pacific Islands Regiment as part of the Australian Army. Very shortly moves must be made to pass the responsibility for the Pacific Islands Regiment over to the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
I know that it is very easy for us to say that we are not going to interfere but in the event of any conflict the temptation for Australia to interfere in the internal affairs of Papua Ne.w Guinea will be very great. 
It will have to be resisted and we ought to make it clear now that we will resist any such temptation. How many times have we heard in the past criticism of the stupidity of Imperial Britain's drawing artificial lines on the map and of the even greater stupidity of Britain's interfering to maintain its boundaries after independence had been granted, such as happened in the conflict between Nigeria and Biafra? 
We have to make it clear that this will not happen in Papua New Guinea. A first stage must be the alteration of the arrangement with the Pacific Islands Regiment. Otherwise we will Kind that we have an Australian garrison on foreign soil. The Labor Party is opposed to such an arrangement. We do not want Australia to have a garrison in Singapore and we do not want an Australian garrison in Papua New Guinea. We ought to move towards separation of the Pacific Islands Regiment from the Australian Army. The Pacific Islands Regiment should be brought under the responsibility of the Government of Papua New Guinea. I believe that Australia's military presence in Papua New Guinea should be redesigned so that the force becomes fundamentally an indigenous force. Australia should act in a technical and advisory function to train such a force against any external threat. Our servicemen should be supernumeraries and should act only to the extent requested by the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
I do not apologise for raising this subject. I appreciate that many of these questions must be dealt with very carefully but our military relationship with Papua New Guinea must be squarely faced and on this subject we cannot afford to bury our heads in the sand. We have to say exactly where we stand. If we do less, we will be doing a disservice not only to ourselves but also to the people of Papua New Guinea. 
In the short time left to me I would like to say that I think a very much greater commitment for civil aid to be given to Papua New Guinea after independence should be stated by the Government. I am sure that much of the opposition to independence within Papua New Guinea has sprung from a fear amongst the people of that country that if it is given independence Australia will up stumps and leave Papua 
New Guinea to itself. If, that were to be the case there would be. some grounds for apprehension about independence. The Leader of the Opposition has made quite clear the attitude that would be adopted by a Federal Labor government. I would like to see a greater pledge given by this Government. Many Australian public servants in Papua New Guinea feel that they are being let down by the Government and I would like to see a greater measure of support for them. I would like the Austraiian Government to say that it will look after the future of any. Australian who is working in Papua New Guinea. Many people who are uncertain about their future there are coming back to Australia while they are still young enough to get a job here. I hope that this situation will be rectified and that the Australian Government will state quite clearly that it will give continuing civil support to Papua New Guinea as long as that country wants to keep Australian personnel. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
Will the recently announced proposals for joint Commonwealth/State assistance to nongovernment schools in the form of per capita grants, if accepted by the State Governments, cost them in excess of $100m over a 5 year period, even if enrolments do not increase. 
Are the State Governments expected to finance this additional expenditure by raising taxation or are they to spend less on their other commitments. 
If not, will the States be forced to substitute Commonwealth money for State money by financing further expenditure on government schools out of the Commonwealth capital grant of $167m. 
If so, will this mean a net gain to government schools of less than $70m. 
In the absence of the Minister for Repatriation I address a question to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister confirm that wives of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners have now ceased to have a pensioner medical service entitlement and have been told to join a medical benefits fund? Has the Australian Medical Association advised the Government that it is not prepared to treat the wives of TPI pensioners under the pensioner medical service? If so, will the Government enter into immediate negotiations with the AMA to restore these entitlements? Irrespective of any agreement with the AMA, will the Commonwealth give an assurance that it will continue telephone rental and radio and television licence concessions to the wives of TPI pensioners? 
I want to deal with just one of the points raised by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  There is only one point which he mentioned that really needs to be dealt with, and that was his statement that there was only one point in dispute over the issue which led to arbitration by  Mr Justice  Mason earlier this year. The Minister said that was over the 'base line fee' over which there would be an updating of the common fee in New South Wales. He implied that this situation was effectively solved by the arbitration findings of  Mr Justice  Mason. It is quite obvious that this was not the only trouble. Otherwise why is it that the doctors came back only last week to see the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)?  The argument of the Minister for Immigration that the whole thing was ironed out by what happened in the informal arbitration proceedings before  Mr Justice  Mason is completely fallacious. 
I think it is time that the people of Australia were fully informed of the significance of last week's meeting between the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and members of the Australian Medical Association because it was a very smelly business - a very smelly business indeed. Last week senior officials of the AMA slunk furtively into this House to the office of the Minister for Health and then slunk over to the office of the Prime Minister to attend a meeting which nobody was supposed to know anything about. Fortunately there were some alert people in the House who woke up to what was going on and this was the reason why the Prime Minister was finally provoked into making his Press statement. If one looks at the Press statement it will be seen that it was obviously deliberately designed to confuse the people of Australia. Honourable members should have a look at what the Prime Minister said in that Press statement. It bears very careful reading. I will quote from the end of the statement. It reads, referring to the AMA: 
I stated plainly to them that while the Government was willing to continue to participate in consultative procedures, its officers would not be permitted to enter into commitments with the AMA on the basis of claims which could not be fully justified. I also indicated that action on the line mentioned would be contrary to the interests of the medical profession and would not be acceptable to the public. 
The AMA representatives will be in touch with the Minister for Health after the Federal Council's weekend meeting and the Government will then consider the situation further. 
Would it not have been terribly easy for the Prime Minister to have given an unequivocal assurance that the Government will not agree to any fee rise before the termination of the present agreement, that is on 1st July 1973? Yet that assurance was conspicuously missing from the statement of the Prime Minister. He did not say anything about this. Why did he not say it? I think there is just one clear reason for it: That the Prime Minister somehow or other, whether explicitly or otherwise, clearly understands that there will be further support for the Liberal Party from the AMA before the general election, as suggested by the Liberal Party, probably in the privacy of the consulting room. This has been the undertaking or at least an understanding between the Prime Minister and the AMA. That, I suggest, is why there is no statement by the Prime Minister saying that the Government will not agree to any fee rise before 1st July 1973. If this was the case what is the quid pro quo? What is the AMA going to get out of it? I do not think there is any doubt at all that what it will mean is a further rise in medical fees after the elections. There can be no question about that if we have a look at past history. Why else would the AMA last week-end have withdrawn its request for an immediate increase in fees? There must be some sort of an understanding. 
The Prime Minister has said that there has been no deal. I think I heard him say on 'PM' 2 nights ago that there would be no deal between the Government and the 
AMA. Perhaps there was not an explicit deal. I would say that there was probably no need for it because there is such a tacit understanding. Is it a tacit understanding based on what happened earlier this year when a group of doctors in New South Wales decided they would unilaterally abrogate the previous 2-year agreement? What happened? We reached a situation, to use the Prime Minister's term, of industrial lawlessness. What happened when the New South Wales general practitioners carried out their industrial lawlessness? The Government capitulated, as it always has in the case of the AMA. In fact it did not just capitulate on a small scale - it rewarded everybody. It had an inquiry by  Mr Justice  Mason to examine what would happen to the common fee in New South Wales and then unilaterally the Government made a decision that fee increases would go not only to New South Wales but to every general practitioner in Australia. 
What is the track record of this Government? It shows that in the case of the AMA one group of general practitioners are to be rewarded for its industrial lawlessness by a fee increase to every general practitioner in Australia. No wonder the Prime Minister was able to say that there was not any deal. It was not necessary. There is a common understanding between this Government and the AMA as to what is going to happen. We know what will happen after the elections if unfortunately this Government is returned to office. There will be a further increase in fees; there cannot be any gainsaying that. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party has been referred to by the Minister. I do not understand, unless he wants to bring up red herrings, why he consistently distorts the position of the ALP in relation to its health insurance proposals. It is proposed that the same amount of money must be raised to provide the same volume of medical services. We propose to raise the same amount of money, from the same tax base, from the same number of people in order to provide the same volume of services. Therefore, how can one say that the total amount of money that is going to be raised will mean an increase? In fact the truth of the situation is that there will be a reduction in cost because of a significant reduction in administrative expenses under the Labor Party's proposal and because of a significant reduction in the excessive amount of reserves - which are increasing - carried by the multiplicity of private medical and hospital insurance funds throughout Australia. But in addition our proposals do not just cover the ground of reforming health insurance, and this really is the essence of the whole problem because what we have to do is to provide an improved quality of health services within Australia. I do not think the people of Australia would mind increased costs of health services if this really were to result in a healthier community. But we are not getting this at the moment. 
The Minister referred to what he says is not an inordinate increase in health costs throughout Australia. We are getting an increase in health costs but the increase is going in the wrong direction. We are faced with great public health problems in the community now - the problems of the pollution of air, water and soil, problems of road accidents as well as other problems such as the rising incidence of mental disease which results in a huge increase in the prescription of drugs, and the rising incidence of heart disease. Instead of spending money on solving these great health problems, the Government for some reason seems to equate health service* with just feather-bedding this inefficient system and propping up the medical profession to go on to provide more business as usual. 
Frankly, I think that the only way we will finally solve the problem of rising medical fees is to alter the situation which exists where all we have at the present time is a sellers market. Because doctors' time is used so inefficiently, because they are called upon to do a lot of things they are not properly trained to do which would be better done by paramedical personnel, there is a great premium on doctors' time. While there is this great premium on doctors' time they are able to command their own fees and we have a seller's market. The result is that we are getting this escalating cost of medical services and the Government's only answer has been to pay more and more without any improvement in the health status of the community. 
It is worth noting a report contained in the Australian Medical Association's political broad sheet which says that Canada is giving serious attention to the problem of properly organising health care in medical health centres. It is time this Government did the same. I note that it is looking at the problem in the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Labor Party government which will be on the treasury bench after the next Federal election will look at properly organising health care not just in the Australian Capital Territory but throughout the whole community. 
I have 2 amendments which refer to clauses 2 and 4. The clauses read in part: 
Clause 2. (1.) Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent. (2.) Sections 3. 4 and 9 of this Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation, not being earlier than the date on which the 1969 Amendments, within the meaning of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, come into force for Australia. 
Clause 4. 
Section 6 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: 
(1.) Subject to this Act, if any discharge of oil or of an oily mixture occurs from an Australian ship into the sea, the owner and the master of the ship are each guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding Fifty thousand dollars. 
I have entered into an arrangement with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to move the amendments together. I ask for leave to follow that course. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In clause  2,  sub-clause  (2j,  omit ',4'. 
In clause 4, in proposed section 6, sub-section (1.), after 'ship', first occurring, insert 'or any other Ship 
The effect of the acceptance of the amendment that I have moved to clause 2 will be that section 4 of the Act will come into effect on the date when the Bill receives royal assent. Then it will be only sections 3 and 9 of the Act that will come into effect when the International Convention has been ratified. I have moved this amendment because sections 3 and 9 are procedural only. They indicate that the Schedule is being altered. The Schedule relates to the Convention itself. It is only section 4 that sets out that in its own right the Government may pass a law to prevent the dumping of oil into the sea. The effect of this amendment will be that this section will come into operation irrespective of whether and when the treaty is ratified by two-thirds of the signatories to it. 
My other amendment seeks to insert on page 2, line 18, after the words 'Australian ship' the words 'or any other ship'. This will make the Bill far more effective because the measure as it stands, even when the treaty is ratified, will not affect any vessel that is not registered within Australia. The Minister for Shipping and Transport said in his reply to the second reading debate that I was referring to placitum (xxix) of section 51 of the Constitution. 1 also referred to section 10 which relates to fisheries in Australian waters beyond territorial limits. I believe it is this power which could be successfully invoked by the Government in passing this Bill and asserting the Commonwealth's power to control marine pollution, irrespective of whether this is ratified by an international treaty. This is the same power that the Gorton Government intended to assert when it introduced the Territoria' Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. If the Minister says that his legal advice is that the Commonwealth does not have the power, I suggest that his legal advice is different from that which has been given to me, to other members of the Opposition, to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I suggest that it would be competent for the Commonwealth to pass this measure and, in its own right, to assert the sovereignty to control the activities of vessels around the Australian coast without having to wait for international treaties to be ratified. Nothing that the Minister said in his reply has convinced me otherwise. 
I have already pointed out - the Minister has failed to answer this aspect - that the proposed legislation would not control any vessel that is not registered in Australia. Even when the treaty is ratified, presumably the other signatory countries wi!l be able to control vessels registered in their countries, but what about those countries that are not signatories to the treaty? What about ships registered in Panama and Liberia? How will we control those? We will not be able to control those by reference to any treaty if they are not signatories to it. This makes the whole thing completely ridiculous because so many tankers are registered ;n countries that are not signatories to this treaty or to any other treaty. For that reason I believe the Commonwealth Government should pass this in its own right. What would be the effect of this? We would still have the treaty ratified but the Government of Australia would exercise its legitimate sovereignty which I have no doubt 1 am sure that at least 2 honourable members opposite who voted with 1 the Opposition last week would agree - the Commonwealth does have the power to do. It must be done because marine resources are some, of the most important resources of Australia and of the world. If we pass these. 2 amendments we will still be observing thu treaty because the treaty is not in any way negated by inserting the words 'or any other ship'. All that would happen would be that we would broaden the scope of the legislation and make the regulations stricter. The fact is that control now extendi to 50 miles from the high water mark. This will come into effect straight away and we will not have to wait for two-thirds of the signatories to ratify it. I can see absolutely no reason why this Parliament should not pass it. I can see every reason why it must, in the interests of conserving the environment. 1 urge the Committee to vote for these amendments. 
Yes, I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  This Bill is a very limited one. It is much more limited than It really need be. It is completely inadequate. It fails completely to provide adequate protection of a very important resource, the marine resources of the world. They are just not Australian resources but world resources. It is not that the Government lacks the power to introduce a proper Bill to give adequate protection of marine resources surrounding Australia. It does in fact have the power. This Government's predecessor, the Gorton Government, certainly showed that it believed it had the power and I have no doubt that this Government really knows that it has the power which the Gorton Government attempted  to  invoke with the introduction of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. But unfortunately this Government will not use that power. The power exists under section 
SI, placitum 10, of the Constitution which relates to fisheries in Australian waters beyond the territorial waters. There is the same lack of decision and the same gutlessness on the part of the Government as was displayed when the Government failed to act to carry out the measure which was introduced by the Gorton Government on the territorial sea and continental shelf and which we once again last week voted to postpone. 
The measure we are now debating is pursuant to a different section of the Constitution and that is the section which relates to international treaties. It really comes from the external affairs power under section 51, placitum 29, of the Constitution. However, full Commonwealth sovereignty could be asserted and it could be asserted without introducing another measure just by the passage of a Bill such as this with a few essential amendments. The power is in the Constitution. All we have to do is to pass the law to invoke that power. This was done last night and again earlier tonight in a measure dealing with foreign takeovers. There is power in the Constitution to enable the Federal Parliament to make laws relating to foreign corporations. That constitutional power had not previously been invoked but we know that it is there. Last night and again tonight the Government acted to invoke that power by the simple passage of a piece of legislation. I submit that it would not be necessary for us to do anything other than to give this measure now under discussion a few more teeth to enable the Government to take action properly to control the marine resources surrounding Australia. 
Why is this measure so inadequate? There are a number of reasons. The first is that this legislation covers only pollution of the sea by oil up to a distance of 50 miles from the nearest land. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will no doubt defend this on the ground that that is the area specified under the treaty. Once again I submit that it would be possible for Australia to go further in this matter. Only 2 weeks ago the Australian government asserted its authority to a distance of 200 miles when it negotiated with the Government of Indonesia over certain oil exploration rights and in the determination of boundaries on the continental shelf between the 2 countries. This is an important Bill even though it covers only a small distance. Ships could discharge oil 51 miles off our coastline. That is not an insignificant distance as far as pollution of the sea is concerned. This could have an effect in areas where deep sea fishing is carried out such as tuna fishing. Diffusion could take place and could affect marine areas closer to the coast of Australia. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle said, it is very sad that no measure - probably it could not be done under this Bill - has been put forward by this Government to control pollution of the sea by anything other than oil. In recent months there has been much publicity given to measures to prevent the dumping in the deep sea of things such as hydrocyanic and other toxic industrial wastes. My colleague has already referred to the circumstances of this act. My understanding is the same. In order to do this the companies concerned obtain a permit from the Commonwealth and the States. If they obtain that permit they can go ahead and dump. But if that permit is not forthcoming from the Government they really have a legal right to go out and dump the industrial waste, because no legislation has been enacted to prevent these companies from poisoning our marine resources. I think that this is a very serious situation. Probably it is something which cannot be dealt with in this measure. But I believe it should be dealt with as a matter of urgency because of the much publicised marine pollution which has taken place. Another thing is that there is no provision for protection from marine pollution where the source is on land. 
My colleague has already mentioned the mercury pollution which has resulted in a lot of shark being taken out of Victorian fish shops. This has posed a very serious health hazard and it has resulted in a very devastating effect on the important fishing in Victoria. So far the Commonwealth has done little about this. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was asked about this matter in the Parliament a month ago. He said that the sum total of the Government's action had been to form a committee. That is a very powerful action indeed! He said that the Public Health Advisory Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council had formed a sub-committee to consider whether the permissible maximum levels of mercury should be increased. But no measures were taken to try to control the actual source of this pollution. This could be done under the powers of the Commonwealth Constitution. But once again the Commonwealth will not assert its authority. 
This is a shocking dereliction of the Commonwealth's responsibility in this area. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle has said that this is a State responsibility. But  I  point out to the House that under a measure which was introduced by the Gorton Government in 1970 the Commonwealth was prepared to assert its authority from the high water mark. Honourable members might remember that there was some dispute about this shortly afterwards. I do not see why we would do the same here and legislate against all sources of marine pollution whether it comes from the sea, the land, industrial effluent or elsewhere. We should legislate to control from the high water mark out to the extreme of the continental shelf. 
Another reason why this measure is so unsatisfactory is that it deals only with Australian ships. Clause 4 of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Bill, with which we are concerned now, states: 
Section 6 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: 6 (1.) Subject to this Act, if any discharge of oil or of an oily mixture occurs from an Australian ship into the sea, the owner and the master of the ship are each guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding Fifty thousand dollars. 
What is the use of passing a law in relation to Australian ships only? I do not know how many, but a number of the tankers which operate in Australian waters are not registered in Australia. They are not Australian ships at all. What we are saying is that we are not prepared to exert any sort of action to control marine pollution unless the ships happen to be an Australian ship. I think that this is an absolutely absurd situation. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  might have said that Gilbert and Sullivan ought to be able to do something in relation to this. The Government is not prepared in what is rightly its own territory to take action to protect the environment by stopping ships from fouling our waters. 
It might again be argued that this is the fault of the treaty and that the treaty does not take any measures and only allows a country to take action against ships registered in that country. If that is true then I would say that this is a very serious weakness in the treaty. Even if that were prescribed in the treaty it would still not stop the Australian Government from taking unilateral action in resolving to control the polluting activities of all ships which operate in Australian waters. I cannot see any reason why the Australian Government cannot do that. A further weakness of this legislation is that it requires ratification by other countries to be effective. I suppose that the Government's attitude would be understandable if the measure before us is solely to ratify a treaty. But this measure will not come into operation in effect until the treaty has been ratified by two-thirds of the signatories to it and so far fewer than one-third of the countries have ratified the treaty. This again is a very serious weakness in the Bill. 
I have already said that we cannot stop ships registered in other countries from polluting our water but we cannot even take action against Australian ships until this treaty has been ratified. Goodness knows how long it will be before twothirds of the countries have ratified this amended treaty. I think the same argument could apply here as before. Even without waiting for the treaty to be ratified by twothirds of the countries, surely there is no reason why the Australian Government could not take measures to pass a simple Bill which would give it the power to control all ships as from now. The measure we are dealing with at present is not an insubstantial measure. We are dealing with a very important matter - that of a marine pollution. We should be trying to protect a very vital resource, something that is the property of all mankind. 
I suppose all of us remember the voyage by Thor Heyerdahl in his papyrus boat across the Atlantic Ocean and the frightening accounts he gave of the serious evi dence of oil slicks and oil deposits in such remote places as the middle of that ocean. This problem will have very serious consequences if it becomes sufficiently widespread. Oil does have direct toxic effects on marine life and also indirect effects by its effects on food chains, in particular on phyto plankton which is very important in generating oxygen in the superficial layers of the water. Because it is so important to oxygen generation this could potentially have an important effect on our environment. 
I know that a lot of debate has taken place about whether we face an impending shortage of oxygen in the world. Probably even at the tremendous rate at which we are consuming the world's energy resources we still have enough oxygen for that. But the situation might be different if we start to run out of our sources of supply of oxygen. We must remember that half of the world's supply of oxygen is generated in this superficial layer of the world's seas. For that reason I think this is really a very serious situation which countries must take much more seriously than has been the case so far. I have spoken before on the subject of marine pollution in regard to mercury. I spoke to the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this House about this matter and he did not even seem to be aware that there was a problem at all. I believe that the Commonwealth does have a power to act. I think it has a responsibility to act to protect our environment and it is about time it did. I note that once again the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  is not in the House. I would like him to make an impact statement on the failure of the Government to enact the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and on the failure of the Government to take any serious action to control the environment. 
In addition, some international action is needed to control this problem. I believe that there should be much closer and stricter policing of oil spillage. I cannot see why, in respect of a ship leaving the Middle East with a load of oil and docking at Birkenhead, Altona, Kwinana or wherever it is, we cannot keep a log of its contents when it leaves the Middle East and when it arrives here. Surely if the Government were fair dinkum about it that would make it easier to police oil spillages. I am quite attracted to the idea of the honourable member for Newcastle that the pumps be sealed. This could provide an effective way of policing this problem. Also the Minister for Shipping and Transport might explain what sort of dispersants are intended to be included in the stockpile mentioned in the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Bill. The honourable member for Newcastle has mentioned that there are a number of alternative proposals to meet the problem of oil spillage when it does arise. I would like to know what the Government has in mind because the problem of dispersants can be quite serious and the dispersants can be toxic. If fact dispersants can be just as toxic as the oil, and we might have a cure that is worse than the disease. 
I would like the Minister to identify the treaty that defines the extension of the boundaries beyond the Great Barrier Reef because in his second reading speech the only convention he has referred to is the Internationa) Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954, as amended in 1962. The only thing I can see in the schedule to the Bill which defines what the boundaries might be is the definition of 'nearest land' in article 1. Here the only convention mentioned is the Geneva Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone, 1958, which is a different convention from that mentioned by the Minister. It is probably only a small point but it is a confusing aspect of the Minister's second reading speech. 
Finally I would like the Minister to explain one other matter related to clause 4 of the Bill which amends section 6(3.) of the principal Act. This clause states that the discharge of oil or an oily mixture from a ship other than a tanker or from the machinery space bilges of a tanker has to be made as far as practicable from land. In the case of tankers, where the oil or oily mixture is not a discharge from the machinery space bilges of the tanker it is a legitimate defence if the discharge was made when the tanker was more than 50 miles from the nearest land. There is a difference here which is not explained in the Ministers second reading speech. I wonder why there is this difference. In one case the discharge has to occur more than 50 miles from land whereas in the other the distance from the shore at which the discharge can be made is not defined. I conclude on that note and indicate my support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in each of the last 5 years has section 116 of the Income Tax Assessment Act been invoked. 
In what industry groupings has the use of this section occurred. 
What was the taxable income declared in each industry grouping in respect of (hose companies in which section 136 was invoked in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the taxable income upon which company tax and withholding tax were paid in each industry grouping in respect of those companies in which section 136 was invoked in each of the last 5 years, after determination had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation and, when applicable, a Taxation Board of Review. 
What was the gain to Consolidated Revenue in each industry grouping from the use of section 136 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
asked  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the estimated maximum disaster effects on the Australian environment of the forthcoming French nuclear tests in the Pacific. 
What action has the Australian Government taken to stop the tests. 
What diplomatic options are available to the Government in trying to stop the tests. 
Are French aircraft and/or ships carrying equipment and personnel to be deployed in the tests, using Australian facilities en route to the Pacific. 
Has the Australian Government raised the matter in the United Nations General Assembly or the Security, Council; if not will it do so. 
Can he say what action has been taken on the matter by other nations apart from letters of protest to the French Government. 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether his attention has been drawn to the absurd situation which applies to the radio station operated by the University of Adelaide. Is he aware that the station's transmissions are filtered, which makes the reception from that station comparable with that from a primitive crystal set? Is he also aware that the station is forbidden to play any music including music, say, as a background to a Shakespearean drama? Will he ensure that this station will not have to continue to operate with one hand tied behind its back? 
Prior to the statement to the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  some remarks were made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  I propose to refer briefly to what he said. It was very difficult for me to believe that I was hearing properly when the honourable member criticised some members on the Government side of the chamber for taking an affirmation instead of an oath on the first day the Parliament met. The honourable member went on later to say something about compulsory unionism and compulsory military service. I suppose it is possible that one could have arguments either way, but never before in this place have I heard the proposition that there should be a compulsory adherence to some formal type of religion. I point out to the honourable member that perhaps the most fundamental freedom in this country is freedom of belief. The remarks made by the honourable member for Henty were probably the most offensive remarks I have heard from any honourable member on either side of the chamber. I hope that I shall not hear such remarks again. What the honourable member said reminded me of the biblical tale about the Pharisee and the publican. I suggest that the honourable member has cast himself in the role of the Pharisee. I return now to the debate on the Address-in-Reply. 
I refer firstly to our relationship with our ally the United States of America. Frequent references have been made by honourable members opposite to our relationships with our ally. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  spoke on this matter the other night he referred to the 'unnecessary strains' that had been put on our relationship with the United States because of various statements that had been made by members of the Labor Government. I invite honourable members to consider the points that the Labor Ministers were criticising. They were criticising the completely unjustified and unwarranted bombing of North Vietnam by the United States, a bombing which had no justification and which should never have been carried out. Surely if we disagree with such a policy we should say so. The Opposition criticised the Labor Government for expressing its views, but the Opposition was very careful not to say what it thought about the bombing. 
I believe that the public of Australia have a right to know what the views of the Opposition are when its members criticise the Government. Are we to understand that the Opposition supported the bombing of North Vietnam last December? If so, honourable members opposite should have the courage to stand up and say so. If they did not support the bombing the only other conclusion to be drawn is that it does not matter what our ally does, no matter how bad it is, in no circumstances should we criticise it. What an extraordinary proposition this is. Supposing nuclear weapons had been used by the United States in North Vietnam. Would we still be forbidden to criticise the United States in a case like that? I believe that both conclusions that can be drawn - that we must never criticise our ally or that the bombing should be supported - are unacceptable. It is ridiculous that we should be expected to support uncritically every move of a government to which we are allied. Surely this is not the meaning of an alliance with another country. 
What exactly does the ANZUS pact mean? It means that if one signatory country to the pact is attacked there shall be consultations between the 3 member governments with a view to taking appropriate action. This does not commit any country. We know that after the Gulf of Tonkin resolution in the United States Senate it has been a very arguable proposition that the United States would automatically come to the rescue of Australia if we were subject to attack. But we have put ourselves into the United States alliance and, as a result, it has cost us very dearly in our involvement in the quagmire of Vietnam. What benefit have we gained from the treaty? 
There is the possibility that the United States will come to our aid if we are attacked. I believe that it will do so if it is in its own interest to do so, but in no other circumstances. 
I suggest that what we should do is look at the ANZUS Treaty in the same way as the United States Government does, in terms of its own self interest. This is what any government should do. The United States Government has gone into the Treaty to extract from it what it considers to be in its own interest. We should go in to get as much as possible from it and make as few concessions as possible. Under the policy that we inherited from the previous Government the situation was the other way round. I do not think we should scrap the Treaty. I see no purpose in saying to the United States that if we are attacked we do not want that country to defend us. I see no purpose in being unfriendly to the United States, but we must remember that the treaty must serve our national interest and be a means to an end. Unfortunately, under the previous Government, the ANZUS Treaty came to be regarded as an end in itself. When the bombing of North Vietnam occurred last December, surely if we objected to it it was up to us to say so. We must say clearly where we stand. Yet there has been an attempt to apply pressure on the Australian Government. 
After the Prime Minister had sent a note to the United States and other Ministers had made statements there was great pressure on the Australian Government to recant. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is now at the table, made a statement attacking the Australian Government. He was among those who were exerting great pressure on the Government. Some people said that we should repudiate the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Others said that we should repudiate the Seamen's Union of Australia. It must be appreciated that there was tremendous pressure on the Australian Government at that time to repudiate what had previously been said, in other words, to line up in support of the United States. I believe that we could not have done this in these circumstances, much as we wanted to retain our alliance with the United States. I believe that it was a terrible thing that some people did align themselves with United States policies and tried to exert diplomatic pressure on our Government. 
Just imagine what would have happened if the Government had claimed that the Minister for Labour did not mean what he said, that the Americans could go ahead with their bombing with our support. That would have been a diplomatic victory and just what the United States would have wanted in order to justify and gain support for its bombing policy. If we had agreed to that we would have been collaborating with this policy. I believe that the statements made by the honourable member for Wannon and other people put them in the position of collaborating with the bombing policy of the United States. I believe that they should be ashamed of their actions at the time. 
I now turn to the domestic front. I believe that the Government is to be congratulated on its program for the next  3  years as announced in the Governor-General's Speech. The activity and the initiatives of the Government that we have seen already are very commendable. The increases in the age pension, Service pensions and other pensions will soon become manifest and will give very badly needed increases to the pensioners of Australia. Already great initiatives have been taken in the field of school dental services, a matter with which I have been very closely connected and concerned in recent years. I am pleased to see that the Government has acted very rapidly in this area. The proposal is to provide a free school dental service to every primary school child in Australia. I think this is a very important matter on which the Government is to be congratulated. It must be remembered that the Government is not just providing a service for children with bad teeth; it is a preventive program to prevent and completely eradicate dental disease. I believe it is not unreal to expect that within a few years under this scheme dental caries will become a complete rarity in Australia. 
I notice that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is in the House. I should like to say to him that I applaud the decision of the Government to send some girls &gt;to New Zealand for training as dental therapists, but I hope that this is not taken to mean that the New Zealand scheme is the complete answer to everything. I believe that the scheme which has operated in South Australia for some years is the best of all schemes and I hope it will become the prototype for all school dental schemes which are operating throughout 
Australia. Rather than follow the New Zealand scheme too closely I hope that the scheme to be introduced throughout Australia will be one of our own and will closely follow that of South Australia. 
In the field of housing the Government already has taken some very decisive action in its emergency grant for rental housing to the States. The conditions laid down by the Australian Government that housing be made available for rental purposes are very good and I wholeheartedly support them. Certainly there has been a very severe problem in the shortage of rental housing and perhaps the problem has been at its worst in New South Wales. It certainly has been very severe in South Australia. The problem has been very often that some of the houses with subsidised rentals have been sold by the tenants. The tenants are people on low incomes. They may be approached by speculators who offer to buy their house from them. The speculators buy the house from them in order to re-sell it. They make a handsome profit and what really amounts to a profit out of the public purse because of the subsidised rents. The result is that the number of rental houses available is decreasing. 
Because the houses being sold are in the inner metropolitan area low income families have been deprived of low income housing in inner suburban areas, and are being driven to the outer suburban ghettos where they face all the sorts of social problems that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and other members of this Government are now trying to grapple with. This problem must be eliminated. I wholeheartedly endorse the proposition of the Government that these houses should not fall into the hands of speculators. Another problem is created in this respect. Many people living in these houses would like to buy them, if that were possible. There is a traditional view probably becoming increasingly widespread that Australian people want to own their own homes. What can we do to stop people seeking to make a quick buck from profiting out of this? Perhaps the way out of this impasse would be to allow tenants to buy their properties on the condition that they should be resaleable only to the State housing authority. This is a suggestion which I made to the Commonwealth Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  a few weeks ago. I am pleased to see that in a recent speech the 
Minister made reference to this proposal. I hope that this scheme will be introduced and that it will provide that a person who has been a tenant in and has purchased a State housing commission home will be able to sell that home to the State housing authority only. Another action by this Government from which we have already seen some benefit derived - we will see more improvements in this area - is the move to control spiralling prices. The policies of this Government make an interesting contrast with the policies adopted by the previous Government. When the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd increased its steel prices last year, Liberal Ministers said that the decision in that case was a commercial one for the company concerned to make. So the Government took no action. The contrast between that policy and the policies of the Labor Government is important. When a 7 per cent increase in the price of steel was mooted by BHP this year the Labor Government set up an inquiry under  Mr Justice  Moore who, after hearing all the evidence, determined that a price increase of 3 per cent was the maximum that could be justified. This inquiry was very important because it demonstrated the completely arbitrary nature of the pricing policies of companies such as BHP. It showed clearly that there was a need for any increases proposed in prices to be justified. 
The inquiry of  Mr Justice  Moore was an important forerunner to an important policy item of this Government, that is, the establishment of a prices justification tribunal. We do not put this proposal forward as the complete panacea to contain prices but we believe it is a very important and essential step. The Commonwealth will be able to use its power to control excessive price increases. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out on a number of occasions, the Commonwealth has great power to take action as it is the main authority letting contracts, granting subsidies and determining tariffs. It can use this power in order to control the pricing policies of the corporations producing basic commodities in our community. Of course, there is nothing original about this method. It was used by former  President  Kennedy of the United States of America when he acted to contain prices of steel in his country. The Federal Labor Government will take similar action to contain prices so that prices do not rise any higher than can be justified by our prices tribunal. Not only will the Commonwealth use its power to contain price increases, but it will also use its great power - and rightly so - to ensure adequate working conditions for all employees engaged under Government contracts. This matter was given considerable airing in the debate on a matter of public importance this morning. I was most surprised to hear members of the Opposition lining themselves up with employers who have committed breaches of awards in the past and have committed other violations of Acts and so forth. Perhaps nowhere is this type of behaviour more important than in the building industry which is absolutely notorious for these things. I am sure all honourable members have had experience of constituents making representations to them because they have not received their pay or they have been paid short by building companies. Despite resistance from the Opposition on this matter the Commonwealth will take action to protect employees from these sorts of practices. I find it incredible that anybody in this parliament should seek to oppose the enforcement of proper working conditions and the observance of awards for employees working under Government contracts. 
It was also remarkable to see the views of a former member of the South Australian judiciary who wrote to an Adelaide newspaper early this week. He argued in the same terms as the Opposition. Apparently he feels that the Government should not be bothered with such mundane matters as whether an employee is paid in accordance with a determination under an arbitration Act or award. With attitudes like that in the judiciary it is timely that industrial matters were removed by this Government from the purview of civil courts. This Government believes that a person taking action to protect and to improve working conditions of employees should not be subject to action in a civil court. Regrettably employers, particularly in my home State of South Australia, have been increasingly using devices such as these which have the effect of denying to workers the right to strike. Nobody likes strikes, least of all the person who is forgoing wages. But the right to withhold one's labour must be preserved because it is a fundamental right. When that right is lost, slavery results. 
The Labor Government does not believe in confrontations with the trade unions. Our relations with the trade unions are necessarily very close. It is not just a matter of ideology; it is a matter of pragmatism. We believe that this is of great benefit to the community. I can give as an example the record of the South Australian Labor Government, which has a very close working relationship with the trade unions in that State. It is interesting to note that although South Australia has  9  per cent of the Australian work force, in the last  3  years only  3.36  per cent of total days lost due to strikes throughout Australia through industrial disputes were in South Australia. The same situation applied in the time of the previous Labor Government in South Australia from  1965  to  1968  when the figure was  3.35  per cent. It is interesting to note also that in the short tenure of office of the Liberal Government in South Australia the figure rose to  5.2  per cent, quite a significant jump. 
I think this is a very important factor which people should note. In  2  days time an election will be held in South Australia where the South Australian Liberal Party - that is both factions of it - appears hell bent on trying to get into government to force confrontations with the trade unions. I think that South Australians should note very carefully the industrial record of the South Australian Labor Government because I think if South Australians voted that Government out of office - I do not think they will however - they would learn to their cost that it is much better to have a policy of co-ordination and close co-operation with the trade union movement than to have one of confrontation. This policy of cooperation will be very vigorously pursued also by the Commonwealth Labor Government which I am very proud to support. 
This Bill will have 2 effects. Firstly, it will remove the $9,000 maximum on a housing loan from the Commonwealth Bank. That really means the Commonwealth Savings Bank. Secondly, it will remove the limit on the proportion of the valuation which can be lent. Previously the maximum amount which could be made available as a housing loan was 90 per cent. In future up to 100 per cent may be lent as a housing loan. I am glad that the Bill has the support of both sides of the House. I was glad that a former Treasurer and former Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  supported the Bill. This Government does not agree with everything that he did when he was Treasurer, particularly what he did in relation to housing. I might say a little about that if I have the time later. The main reason for the removal of the $9,000 maximum for a housing loan is that that amount is no longer commensurate with the reasonable cost of purchasing a house. For that reason the Bill deserves the support of the House. 
The Bill will have a direct effect and it will have indirect effects. The direct effect on housing will be a reduction in the cost of housing to those people who wish to borrow money from the Commonwealth Bank. At present, if they cannot get all the finance that they need, they have to resort to second mortgages, at higher rates of interest. Sometimes - in fact, often - they are required to go outside the banking system, and they have to pay a substantially increased rate of interest. That is a most unsatisfactory situation. It will be remedied by the Bill. That is the position in relation to clients of the Commonwealth Bank. The Bill will have indirect effects in that it will help to reduce the rates of interest charged by the other institutions, including other banks, I hope that it will exert pressure upon other lending institutions to lower the rates of interest which they charge. It will make the Commonwealth Bank more competitive. It will not do that by reducing the rate of interest which the Commonwealth Savings Bank charges, but it will make the Bank more competitive because the disadvantage under which the Bank now operates will be removed. 
Although the Bank charges a relatively low rate of interest, it has had to compete with this handicap of a ceiling on the amount of a housing loan. That has put it at a considerable disadvantage when compared with many of the private banks which have no limit on the amount .that can be lent. Therefore the Bill will make the Bank competitive. That does not mean to say that the Bank is not already highly competitive. Of course, it is competitive. I think that the best testimony to this fact is a passage on page 14 of the latest annual report of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, which states: 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank continued to be Australia's largest institutional lender for housing, approving over 25,000 loans totalling $224m. This was 35 per cent of the total housing loans of all savings banks for the year, and 24 per cent of housing loans by savings and trading banks. 
Since 1960 the Bank has provided more than $ 1,500m in loans to help 228,500 families buy their own homes. 
I think all honourable members would agree that that is certainly a very impressive record. I think it follows, and this point was made by the honourable member for Wentworth, that because of the sheer size of the market which has accrued to the Bank anything that we do - including the introduction of legislation such as this - will have a very substantial effect on the housing industry as a whole. Making the bank more competitive will have a substantial effect throughout the whole of the housing industry. I think that this is of special interest. I noticed an article, which was critical of the Government, in the financial Press - as a matter of fact, it was in the Financial Review' early in January this year - in which the Commonwealth Savings Bank was castigated for not being sufficiently aggressive in cutting its rates of interest. The article said that the Bank should get out into the market more, reduce its rates of interest and force down the rates of interest charged by other lending institutions. I refer the author of that article to a publication by the Commonwealth Department of Housing called 'Housing Finance'. It has been brought to my attention only recently. It is an excellent publication. I suggest to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  that it would not do any harm if copies of future issues of this publication were circulated to honourable members when they are published. If the author of this article in the 'Financial Review' had examined the situation he would have seen that the Commonwealth Savings Bank already lends money at a lower rate of interest than any of the other housing authorities or banks except, of course, those that are lending under subsidised arrangements such as the war service homes scheme or the arrangements under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank charges an interest rate of  &gt;i  per cent. This rate can be compared to, say, that of the Rural Bank of New South Wales which charges interest rates ranging from  6i  per cent to 7i per cent. Admittedly, one bank charges the same rate of interest, namely, the State Savings Bank of Victoria. This bank also charges  6i  per cent on money loaned for housing. The Bank of Adelaide Savings Bank charges 7 per cent. Then we move up into the life assurance companies which charge from 7 per cent to 8 per cent interest. Commercial Life Assurance Limited charges 9 per cent. Then there are the institutions which charge high interest rates; in this area of lending it is quite common to see an interest rate of 12i per cent. I do not want to debate that point now because 
I am sure that all honourable members have experience of people who are having great difficulty in trying to meet payments on money borrowed from these high interest rate institutions. 
There is not much scope at the present time for the Commonwealth Savings Bank to change its interest rates. At  6i  per cent, its interest rate is only i per cent more than the interest rate charged on government securities. So, there would really be not much difference if we switched from government securities into housing. Perhaps the time is not far off when we can reduce interest rates across the board and the time may come when we can further reduce interest rates charged by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. What needed to be done will be done by this measure. The Commonwealth Savings Bank will have the ceiling removed on maximum loans and, therefore, the interest rates which it is already charging will become very highly competitive and I expect that this will make a great impact on the market. 
It is important to try to anticipate what the broad economic effects of this measure will be, because anything that has a significant effect on the housing industry has a big effect on the economy as a whole. This measure almost certainly will result in the Commonwealth Savings Bank taking some business away from its competitors, particularly the fringe and other non-banking sectors and this, of course, will be welcomed. But this depends on whether the Commonwealth Savings Bank will be permitted to release some of its money into the housing sector. I think that this should be the purpose of the whole exercise, because if the same aggregate amount of money is lent by the Commonwealth Savings Bank, with a higher maximum, it will mean fewer loans. I do not think that this is intended. The scope exists for the Commonwealth Bank to lend more money in the housing sector because it already has a very high LGS ratio - in other words, its liquidity ratio - and there is much room for increased diversion of its funds into the housing sector. 
One result which must be guarded against is that this policy does not result in excessive demand for housing. I am hoping that money will be diverted from the high interest rate sector into the banking sector and, particularly, into the Commonwealth Bank. In other words, there may be the same aggregate amount of money going into housing, but more being lent by the Commonwealth Bank. There is the alternative possibility that more money could be borrowed from the Commonwealth Bank, while the amount borrowed from the fringe banking institutions remains the same, so that the total amount of money going into housing would be increased. If this happened, we could be faced with a situation where the unit cost of housing would increase. There is no point in having an increased demand for resources which cannot be met, because if it cannot be met it will merely mean a higher unit cost and a greater amount of money will go to build the same number of houses. If this happened, we would obviously need to watch the situation to ensure that the unit cost of housing did not get out of control. 
What would we do in such a situation? I hope that we would not have recourse to the measures that were introduced by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  when he was Treasurer of this country, of raising interest rates. It is most unfair to try to ration housing by increasing interest rates because it will affect those people who can least afford it. I should qualify that by saying there may be some place for this policy if we were prepared to, say, offer a rebate to people who are in a situation of particular hardship. However, that is perhaps a little far from the measure we are now discussing. 
If it is necessary in any way to restrain the overall demand for housing, perhaps the best method is to adopt the same techniques used by housing authorities in the States and implement a waiting list with special regard being paid to people in special circumstances of hardship. The problem should not be tackled by imposing a high interest rate structure. 
Of course, the best way to avoid the excessive demand or inflationary tendencies which could occur with a housing shortage is to ensure that there is an adequate supply of the commodities of which we are short and thereby try to force down the price. This Government has already foreshadowed strong action in this sphere, particularly in relation to the supply of land. Land has increased greatly in price. Honourable members may have seen a study by the Institute of Urban 
Affairs which was published last year and which pointed out that the cost of land had increased by 16 per cent compound per annum over the last 15 years whereas the cost of wages had increased by only 3 per cent or 4 per cent compound per annum during the same period. So, the price of land is something that must be tackled at its root cause. 
The Government has taken action. Arrangements will be made with the States to assist the State governments to acquire land before it is subdivided. I hope this will be done even before the land is zoned urban, so that the speculative element can be removed from land prices. The other advantage about the Crown owning the land is that we do not have the system which now operates with the private speculators owning all the land and releasing it in small parcels in order to ration the supply artificially and artificially drive up the price to their own benefit. The root cause we must get at to try to control land prices is to decentralise employment opportunities. The Government has taken action in this regard. With its foreshadowed action in AlburyWodonga and other decentralised areas the Government is going right to the root cause of the problem. If pressure exists on resources the real answer is to increase supply. 
This is an important measure. Because of the great role of the Commonwealth Savings Bank in the housing industry, it will have a profound effect not only on the housing industry but across the entire economy. I should like to say a little more about the housing industry when we discuss other measures relating to housing later this session. But I think it will be necessary for us to examine the entire question of a housing policy in Australia. For too long under successive Liberal governments we have tended to face the problem on an ad hoc basis. We need to examine exactly where we are going and what we are achieving. I know that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has full regard to the problems in this field. The Minister and I attended a seminar on housing last year in Adelaide and a strong view was expressed at that time that perhaps the way to approach problems in the area of housing, particularly in the area of welfare housing, is by making subsidies available to the individual tenant or home buyer rather than to the house. On this basis we would not tend artificially to drive up the price of housing. 
This is a very complicated matter and I believe we must take a good hard look at it. We should perhaps give some thought to establishing our equivalent to the think-tanks of other departments. The Department of Primary Industry has its Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Department of Transport has its Bureau of Transport Economics. I cannot see any reason why we should not have a bureau of housing economics. I am not one for a broad, overall national plan. I think that overall national plans sometimes get too big for people to digest. But I think that in a circumscribed field such as housing we could have a look at the whole field and decide where we are going. I think that one way we might do. this is by the establishment of a body such as a bureau of housing economics. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether his attention has been drawn to a summary of documents attached to a statement made by the AttorneyGeneral in the Senate yesterday referring to a statement in 1964 by the then AttorneyGeneral, the present Leader of the Opposition, concerning prosecutions for offences against the Passports Act and the Aliens Act in which the then Attorney-General said: 
There is a period of public quiescence at present. I would not want to see the whole issue revived by prosecutions which are not in themselves of great proportions. . . . 
Is it the legal prerogative of the AttorneyGeneral to prosecute or not to prosecute according to political and ideological motives? 
 1  have much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I believe that the Committee this Parliament will set up to examine prices will be very valuable. Its work will not only assist the members of the Committee and other members of the Parliament in apprising themselves of the various factors that go to make up the pricing structure but also will achieve some positive gains through examining the prices, in certain cases, of individual goods and services. 
The main reason I rise to speak in this debate is to deal with 2 assumptions that are frequently made by members of the Opposition, though 1 noticed that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  dissociated himself from the assumptions I will mention which are in relation to wages. The 2 propositions that I want to deal with are frequently raised by my Party's political opponents. The first assertion is that inflation is wholly or nearly wholly due to wage increases. The second is that the way to overcome inflation in the community is merely to increase the forces of competition and to allow the free interplay of market forces. I believe that both of those propositions require fairly heavy qualification. 
I deal firstly with the assumption that only wages are responsible for inflation. If one follows on from this assumption one might therefore go on to assume, as is often assumed by the Opposition that somehow the greedy wage earners should restrain themselves from avaricious wage demands. I believe and this Government believes that in a democracy wage control is neither desirable nor practicable. Wage earners do not operate by taking a conscious decision to plunder the rest of the community. Wage demands are made by a group of employees in an industry in response to a specific set of circumstances. 
To suggest that such demands should be restrained artificially seems to me to be an unusual proposition from the champions of private enterprise and free enterprise, because they seem to be saying that we should not restrain the free forces of the market except in the case of labour. Labour really operates in the market place too. The price received for labour is largely a reflection of the demand for labour in various fields. If one tries to interfere with this mechanism with such things as penal provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act one interferes only with the market mechanism. This attitude seems to be an extraordinary anomaly on the part of people who advocate unrestrained private enterprise. 
This Government is not prepared to make a stand in principle against wage increases. We believe that wage increases in themselves are intrinsically a good thing. It is only if they cause price increases that they can have deleterious effects on the rest of the community. These effects will occur only when wage increases are in excess of increases in productivity. In such cases price increases can occur. That does not mean that if we do not achieve the necessary increase in productivity we should restrain wage increases. 
The Government's job is to try to improve the rate of economic growth so that productivity increases can cope with wage increases so that price increases will not occur. But if price increases do occur we do not think it is our job to try to restrain wages. We should try to improve productivity. This is our belief and it is the belief which has mostly been held by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission over the years. There have been a couple of lamentable lapses from this policy but by and large the Commission has held the view that if prices rise without an increase in productivity, it is nonetheless incumbent upon the Commission to increase wages to maintain and to sustain the purchasing power of wage earners. This is a policy to which this Government subscribes also. 
It has been said earlier in this debate, and 1 would agree, that price rises can result from causes other than wage increases. I think that a good example of this was the recent case involving proposed increases in steel prices by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which was heard by  Mr Justice  Moore. T do not wish to argue the merits one way or the other of the BHP case. However, one of the facts which did come out of that case was the extraordinarily arbitrary nature by which price increases are determined by the large companies, particularly if the situation in respect of their activities is not very competitive. Having regard to the fact that so many price increases are decided on a completely arbitrary basis, surely it would be a remarkable coincidence if it was never the case that the price increases were excessive in some way or, in other words, if they did not represent an unseemly high level of profit. One of the purposes of the proposed Committee will be to establish a mechanism additional to that which already obtains to ensure that excessive price increases which may represent an excessive level of profits will not occur. 
The other assumption that is frequently made by the champions of private enterprise is that all that -we need to do to control excessive price increases is to have an adequate degree of competition. They say that prices should not be fixed artificially because this will cause bottlenecks and so forth. They contend that the only action to be taken is to increase the competitive forces in the economy. I agree that excessive price increases do occur if competition is limited. But this also needs very heavy qualification. Just to say that one is against competition will not stop these things happening. In fact, the introduction of anti-competitive practices legislation in itself is not sufficient to restrain price increases. 
I invite honourable members to consider what happened following the introduction of resale price maintenance legislation in the last Parliament. One might have hoped that the passage of that legislation would have meant a downward pressure on retail prices. But, in fact, the effect of this legislation has been minimal. Prior to this legislation a wholesaler would say that he would supply to a retailer only if that retailer undertook to sell the wholesaler's goods at a specific price, and if the retailer did not sell at that price, supplies would be withheld by the wholesaler. Under the resale price maintenance legislation it became illegal for a manufacturer to threaten to withhold supplies from a retailer who did not conform to his demands. But the point is that it was not even necessary to have this threat of a sanction by which supplies were withheld because it was in the interests of all retailers to operate a little collusive practice whereby they all agreed that they regarded it as in their own interests to maintain resale price maintenance. So, the threat of retaliation by wholesalers was not even necessary. 
The same could be said in respect of any attempt to outlaw collusive practices among manufacturers. We passed legislation to try to eliminate collusion, but that legislation was ineffective as well because collusion was not even necessary. Manufacturers understand what is in their own interests. They do not wish to cut each other's throats. They have nice cosy little arrangements. Whether those arrangements are made openly or privately does not make any difference. They come to a common agreement. The passage of legislation, therefore, does not make any real difference to the existence of monopoly and anti-competitive practices. 
This is referred to in Galbraith's book 'The New Industrial State', in which he refers to the activities of companies which enter into collusive practices. He says: 
. the 3 majors in the automobile industry, as he result of long and intimate study of each other's behaviour within the confines of one city, are able to establish prices which reflect the common interest. And they can do so with precision. No consultation is required. The procedure is legally secure. Not much would be changed were the companies allowed, in fact, to consult and agree on prices. 
The point that I am making is that merely passing anti-competitive legislation is no guarantee that these practices will not continue. For that reason I believe that we must have an extra mechanism which will be supplied in the form of this committee to examine the prices of goods and services and subsequently in the establishment of a prices justification board. 
I believe that we have pretty ample evidence already of what can be done by examining the prices of particular goods and services and then the Government threatening to use its power to give?* contracts, subsidies and so forth to force prices down. I refer honourable members to the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits which was presented to the previous Parliament. The report contains a couple of tables which show what the Commonwealth Department of Health has been able to achieve in the field of prices. The Department can go to the individual drug companies and say: 'We are examining the price of a particular drug that you are manufacturing. We believe that you could charge a lot less. Other companies which manufacture the same drug charge less and we believe that you should do the same.' The Department can then say: 'If you do not reduce the price of your product which is of an equivalent quality to other products on the pharmaceutical benefits list and if you do not conform to a reasonable pricing arrangement your product will be delisted. Nobody will ever convince me that we cannot have  a  very effective mechanism to restrain price increases by just examining these things and then making recommendations to the manufacturers by saying: 'We require you to lower your prices, otherwise the favoured arrangement that you are getting from this Government will be withdrawn'. As evidence of the effectiveness of this approach I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard tables which appear on page 55 and pages 64 and 65 of the Report of the Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits. 

<graphic href="082131197303282_40_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082131197303282_40_1.jpg"></graphic>

If honourable members look at these tables they will see that very significant gains can be made in this field. I believe that the proposed parliamentary committee will be able to extend this inquiry to examine a whole range of goods and services with a very beneficial effect in exerting a downward pressure on the price of goods and services supplied throughout the economy. Therefore I have very much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the Treasurer. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Lynch's)  be agreed to. 
My question, which is addressed to the Postmaster-General, relates to unsolicited material being transmitted through the post and in particular to the 'Rhodesian Commentary', published by the Rhodesian Information Centre. Does this centre remain open in defiance of the Commonwealth Government which has the constitutional power to direct its closure? Does the journal of the Rhodesian Information Centre support  a  government which is in a state of rebellion against the British Crown? Will the PostmasterGeneral withdraw the registration of this newsletter for transmission as a periodical through the post? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to the continuing reports of the isolation of the Cambodian capital. Can the Minister advise the House of the situation, particularly with regard to the possibility of a negotiated settlement in Cambodia? Will he also advise the House about the safety of Australian personnel? 
1 address to the Treasurer a question relating to the effects of changes in dollar parity on users of international airlines, particularly Australian exporters. I preface my question by pointing out that the airlines have set their charges in United States dollars and they convert this amount into Australian dollars to determine the charge to Australian travellers and exporters. Is the Treasurer aware that the International Air Transport Association is still using the same conversion scales which were used before the Australian revaluation last December? Does this not now mean a 17 per cent surcharge on passenger and export freight charges? What gives the airlines the right to set their own exchange rates in defiance of the official rates set by the Reserve Bank of Australia? Will the Government make it quite clear to the airlines that they are not above the law and  will  the Treasurer require them to make appropriate refunds for all freight carried since 23rd December 1972? 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has just demonstrated how much the Australian Country Party represents sectional interests. He referred to the industrial sector but, of course, he meant wages. What he really means is that the Government ought to control wages and prices in every section of the community except in the area about which he is concerned; that is the prices that farmers receive. I hope that this reference to the Committee will not result in undue delay before a decision is made by the Government on this matter. I hope that it can be dealt with as expeditiously as the Australian Meat Board made up its mind on the matter of meat prices. The Government must decide very early what it is going to do. I believe that some reductions in quotas for exports of meat will result from the inquiry. 
We have to decide whether wc are to please the producer or whether we are to try to do something to help the housewife. We cannot please both. The Country Party is prepared to say that we have to do something for the meat producers. Of course, when things start to go badly for the meat producers they will be the first ones to look around for help. They want it both ways. H. L. Mencken once said: 'The trouble with farmers is that when things are going well for us they rob us blind. When things are going badly, the first thing they do is run to the public till for assistance.' I hope that this matter can be expedited. I hope that it will be dealt with as quickly as is humanly possible. 1 do not believe that there is anything productive in having an extensive look at the market structure of the meat industry. Perhaps it would be fruitful in the long run but it will not solve the immediate problem of high prices which requires urgent action by the Government. My own judgment is that the retail butchers are not charging excessive profit margins at the moment. They are probably shaving their margins at present because of the high prices they have to pay. I think the deliberations of the Committee on meat prices will be most fruitful when the supply becomes more plentiful. If we then find that meat prices are not reduced, that will be the time to examine the whole vertical market structure of the meat industry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Has his attention been drawn to a recent resolution by the Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association indicating that in future the AMA would advise the Government of fee increases only after the increases had been decided? Has the Australian Medical Association expressed any interest in prior consultation with the Government to help the setting of medical benefits? If not, is this a departure from previous AMA policy? 
It was most interesting to hear the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  profess a great interest in the problems of the cities and say that the Commonwealth should interest itself in the problems of the cities. This makes a very interesting contrast to the time when he was the Prime Minister of this country. I remind the right honourable gentleman of a time in 1970 when I asked him, when he was Prime Minister of this country, whether he would take some interest in the problem of land prices in Australian capital cities. He may remember that I suggested at the time that because the acquisition of land by the Crown had succeeded in controlling land prices in the Australian Capital . Territory, it would not be a bad idea if the Commonwealth helped the State governments to do the same thing in their capital cities. I thought that was such an important question that, although it was a question without notice, I gave the right honourable gentleman several hours warning of the question. Notwithstanding that fact, the answer he gave me was to tell me to take it to my Labor State government. That answer was the height of apathy and utter ignorance, lt sounds quite hollow and cynical for the right honourable gentleman now to try to profess that we are following in the footsteps of the previous Government. 
The facts are that this Labor Government was given a mandate to do something about the problems of Australian cities - to bring to bear the resources of the Commonwealth Government to help our great urban problems in the capital cities of Australia. The 
McMahon Government's setting up of the predecessor of this arrangement - the National Urban and Regional Development Authority - was only a death bed repentance because that Government realised at the last minute that it had better pay some lip service to something to which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  have paid unswerving attention in recent years, instead of a lot of criticism, apathy and opposition. 
I would like to say something about the right honourable gentleman's remarks concerning regional development. 1 take it that his proposition is that if we omit the term regional development' this will make the people in the rural areas very jealous and they will think that the Government does not care about rural areas or regional development. The plain fact of the situation is that this Commission is being set up to control, to look at and to try to do something about the problems of Australian cities. One of the things we will have to do is to build new cities because the problems are very great when the cities become too large. But this does not mean that we are going  to  ignore completely the whole idea of regional development and decentralisation. The basic objective of the Cities Commission is to look at the problems of the cities. If one is going to argue from the right honourable gentleman's point of view that we should mention regional development one should follow that argument to its logical conclusion and say that we should rename the Department of Northern Development the Department of Northern and Southern Development, otherwise the people south of the Tropic of Capricorn will become jealous, and that we should rename the Department  of  Foreign Affairs the Department of Foreign and Internal Affairs otherwise people will think that  the  Government is interested only in domestic problems. That is the absurd proposition put forward by the right honourable member for Higgins. 
He also mentioned land prices when land is being acquired by the Crown. The right honourable gentleman is apparently refuting the policies of  Mr Hamer  in Victoria and  Sir Robert  Askin in New South Wales who made an agreement with the Commonwealth Government on Srd October 1972 for land to be acquired by the Crown in the WodongaAlbury area at fixed prices. Where does the right honourable gentleman stand? In spite of what  Mr Hamer, Sir Robert  Askin and our Prime Minister decided, I believe that there is a fundamental principle here. Surely nobody is entitled to make a profit from the sale of land out of an increase in value that that person does not put into the land himself. In other words, I cannot for the life of me see why any person should make a profit out of an unearned increment in the value of land. 
The Government's policy is very welcome. I pay tribute to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development for the great attention he has given to this subject in recent years. I am sure that under his guidance the Cities Commission will be a great success and will do a great deal for the problems in Australian cities. Of course, urban problems do not just involve physical problems. Everybody knows about the physical problems. I am sure that other honourable members will mention things like the problems of providing roads, sewerage and other services. I am sure everyone would like to say something about problems in the cities such as air pollution, noise, freeways, traffic congestion, accidents and public transport which is inadequate and expensive. We must also bear in mind that there are other social problems associated with cities at which the Cities Commission will have to look as well. I refer to the great social questions of crime, drug taking - I do not mean just the illicit drug market; I mean the immense over-prescription and over-use of prescription drugs - and other associated problems of mental illness that seem to be part and parcel of urban life. These are tremendously important. 
I believe it is important to look at the type of cities where people live because I think this in a large way determines people's behaviour. It determines aberrations of human behaviour. It is useless and futile to say that aberrations of human behaviour are due to human frailties, a propensity for sin or something like that. Surely it is fundamental that people's behaviour is determined by their social environment - by their domestic and physical environment. I believe that the type of environment in which people live has a very great effect on their communal and individual behaviour. I instance such things as the size of the cities in which they live, the type of social mix in the area in which they live and the density of population. If these can be modified, an improvement in the group and social behaviour of the community that lives in cities can be achieved. This is sometimes called architectural determinism, if I may use that 'in' term. 
One important task of the Cities Commission will be to examine the question of urban growth centres. This very important matter is very close to home for me. The Noarlunga area in my electorate in South Australia is an area which is ideally suited for assistance from the Commonwealth Government. I believe that it is a most suitable example in South Australia for Commonwealth assistance. Certainly it has the most tangible plan. It should not be long before the development of this growth centre is very well advanced. As part of this plan there will be What is to be called the Noarlunga regional centre, which will be a large complex set aside for educational, recreational, commercial, cultural and governmental - local, State and Commonwealth - purposes. 1 would like to see a lot of Commonwealth involvement in this area. Of course, there is already some involvement at this stage. I am pleased to see that the Bureau of Transport Economics is looking at the transport situation in the Noarlunga area and examining the proposition for providing suitable finance and the best way of improving the line or extending the suburban railway line into the Noarlunga area. I understand that the Bureau is also examining the question of electrification of the service. 
I have put certain propositions to the Minister. I know that he will give them very favourable consideration. I would very much like to see the Commonwealth assisting in the carrying out of a survey of the needs of this area - the educational, employment, transport, social and recreational needs. This is something that could be done by using the accumulated expertise that the Commonwealth should be able to acquire at fairly short notice. It will not require a large amount of money. It will be thousands of dollars, not millions. I believe it would be of great benefit to the area and it would be a very interesting policy study for some of the other urban growth centres in Australia. Another area to be looked at is whether the Commonwealth departments could be established in this area. I know that the Postmaster-General's Department is already looking at the Noarlunga regional centre. I have mentioned this matter to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde 
Cameron) and I think that he may be con? sidering it. 
I am not just thinking of branch offices. Perhaps we ought to be looking at decentralising some of the head offices of the Commonwealth Government departments. I know that the Government has in mind that some of the remaining offices that are headquartered in Melbourne will be transferred not to Canberra but to Albury-Wodonga. I think that there is a place for some of them to go elsewhere in Australia. I think I have mentioned to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development - I have certainly mentioned it elsewhere - the possibility of the new headquarters of the National Biological Standards Laboratory being set up in one of these new centres. I could not think of a better place than in my own electorate. Apart from that, I would like the Government to look at the question of providing the headquarters of a lot of these Commonwealth departments outside Canberra because I cannot real y see any merit in having everybody here. Criticism has been made - I think it is sometimes valid - that if the whole bureaucracy is completely centred in Canberra people have very little need to move outside that area and sometimes they may become a little less appreciative of the problems that occur outside Canberra than they otherwise might be. 
I have also suggested to the Minister - I hope he will look at the question - that the Government might assist in the acquisition of land for open space and recreational areas It is a bit difficult to develop any theme at great length when one has been allowed only 10 minutes to .speak. I conclude by congratulating the Minister and wishing the establishment of the Cities Commission every success, which I am sure it will have, under his stewardship. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. Has his attention been drawn to a joint statement by the Foreign Ministers of India and Bangladesh proposing repatriation of Pakistani prisoners of war and of Bibaris living in Bangladesh, in exchange for repatriation of Bengalis now living in Pakistan? Has he noted that the Government of Bangladesh does not require the dipomatic recognition of Bangladesh by Pakistan as a condition of this exchange? Will the Australian Government give diplomatic support for all such moves towards reconciliation on the Indian sub-continent? 
I would like to raise with the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  a matter that I cannot understand from my reading of the Bill. It relates to the future of the new nation of Papua New Guinea as regards currency and what will happen to this loan and other loans if Papua New Guinea establishes its own separate currency. Clause 5 of the Bill indicates that the value of the loan that is to be guaranteed by the Australian Government is to be expressed in United States currency and will be expressed in parity with the Australian dollar. That is all very well in the present circumstance where the currencies of Australia and Papua New Guinea are one and the same, but what happens after independence when the currencies may differ, if, for any reason, the parity between the currencies of the two countries differs, or in particular if, as so often happens with developing countries - I do not criticise them for so doing - it wants to devalue its currency? Will the Australian Government pay devaluation compensation, as it were, to the creditors of Papua New Guinea on this loan if that country wants to devalue? 
This is a very important matter because I think that in this circumstance, with a government to government loan, Australia should underwrite the loan to the value of Australian currency and offer to offset any loss to the creditor in the event of any devaluation by Papua New Guinea. I do not believe that we should in any way try to pressure the Government of Papua New Guinea into having an over-valued currency. There is enough pressure on these developing countries as it is to have an over-valued currency. I . suppose for political reasons for a start they do not like to see their currency value going down. They think it is bad for the prestige of their country. They like to maintain their own credit rating and they feel that their international credit rating might fall if they have repeated devaluations. For various reasons of prestige - I do not say that in any pejorative sense - they want to develop certain prestige projects in their own countries to enhance their status as a developing country. So there is already enough pressure on these countries to hold what might be an artificially high parity for their own currencies. 1 am not a believer in developing countries maintaining over-valued currencies. If they want to devalue we should make it as easy as possible for them to do so. The most obvious reason for them doing so is that they want to maintain their balance of payments. This is always very difficult for a developing country. Papua New Guinea is a typical example of this, lt has a very limited range of exports. Most of them are agricultural commodities, most of which are in surplus supply on the world's markets. Apart from that, these developing countries have their mineral exports. Because they are all unprocessed minerals the revenue from them, while substantial, is not nearly so great as those governments would really like them to be. I do not think it is in the interests of developing countries to have an over-valued currency because this makes the importation of capital goods artificially cheap. Jt means that the countries may tend to go in the way of capital intensive development rather than in the way of labour intensive development. 
If that happens the inevitable result is an increase in unemployment. Everyone knows that this is a tremendous problem for all developing countries and particularly for Papua New Guinea. Any honourable member who has ever been in the area knows the great problems of unemployment, particularly in the rural areas. As a result the people drift from the villages into the large towns find we find squatter settlements, with chronic unemployment, amongst the various other problems that occur in the larger towns and cities of New Guinea. I refer to such problems as petty crime and some of the other crimes that are not so petty. I think that the only answer to this is labour intensive industry being developed as far as possible in the smaller towns and villages of Papua New Guinea. I believe that an excessive preoccupation with capital intensive development is not in the long term interest of developing countries. For that reason we should not encourage such countries to have an over-valued currency because it makes their imports of capital goods artificially cheap, and what passes in the name of development is in fact antidevelopment. The result is a considerable degree of unemployment and all the social dislocation that goes along with it. We have to be very cautious of this. If the Papua New Guinea Government wants to devalue its currency I hope that under this Bill we will make it as easy as possible for that country to do so by saying: 'Go ahead and do not worry about your international creditors. The Australian Government will pick up the tab for my loss your creditors might otherwise have incurred.' I think it is most important that we make this clear. I am not quite certain of it from the wording of the Bill. Perhaps the Minister might be able to explain what would happen if subsequently the 2 currencies were to go their different ways and Papua New Guinea devalues. Would Australia pay the devaluation compensation to the creditors, or is Papua New Guinea expected to pay? If it is, I do not believe it should. The alternative understanding would be that only if Papua New Guinea defaulted on the loan altogether would Australia have to pay. I hope that Australia goes further than that and offers to indemnify the creditor country, bank or whatever body has made the loan against any devaluation of currency. 
I am all in favour of this measure which helps to guarantee an official loan for the development of public works in Papua New Guinea. I do not know that we will be able to say exactly the same thing for private capital investment that takes place in Papua New Guinea. I do not know that we really want to underwrite a complete foreign takeover of Papua New Guinea. I have spoken to a number of people in Papua New Guinea and I believe that perhaps they are a little too eager at times to bring foreign investment into their country. I think perhaps the best thing we can do is to point out that all of the countries in the Asian area that were, previously underdeveloped and have really achieved industrialisation and near full employment are those countries - I am thinking particularly of the People's Republic of China and of japan - which have financed all their development as far as possible without importing foreign capital. I think that if countries can make it in their own way and standing on their own 2 feet without having recourse to foreign capital it will be in their long term interests. For that reason while I support this measure I think we should point out to our friends in the Papua New Guinea Administration that, while we approve of such ventures, we hope that they will look very hard before going too strongly after private capital investment in Papua New Guinea. 1 think this matter was referred to previously by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  1 do not know whether he was referring to the civil aviation dispute, but I know that it poses very important  questions for Australia.  What will happen if the Australian Government decides that it does not want to become an imperialist power by becoming the landlord of Papua New Guinea and owning all the industry and investment in thai country? If we leave Papua New Guinea and our place is taken by Japan or some other country I am sure that many Australians would not regard that as being in our national interests. I just make that remark in passing, but I would appreciate it if the Minister would explain the terms of this loan and what will happen should the Papua New Guinea Administration decide to reduce the parity of its currency compared with Australia's currency. 
 My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, refers to the CommonwealthState committee to examine the question of inflation which was established after the recent conference between the leaders of the Commonwealth and State governments. Is he aware that the attitude of the Victorian Premier on inflation has been interpreted by the Leader of the Opposition in this House in the following terms: "You can't cure h on a single throng (sic) of just prices; it has got to be a prices-incomes policy'? As a pricesincomes policy has suddenly become orthodoxy for the major Opposition party, can the Treasurer indicate the probable impact of such policies on industrial unrest and inflation? 
I do not think that today should be allowed to pass without making mention of the fact that  2  historic and momentous documents have been presented to the Parliament. One is titled Community Health Program for Australia' which is a report from the National Hospitals and Health Services Commisson Interim Committee. The other report is entitled Schools in Australia* and is a report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. As I have said, these are momentous reports. The Committees concerned were both headed by very knowledgeable and greatly respected people within their own disciplines. We are very fortunate in Australia that we have these 2 eminent people heading their respective Committees. Subsequently they will head the Commissions concerned. I refer to Professor Karmel, who will be the head of the Australian Schools Commission. The Australian Hospitals and Health Services Commission will be headed by  Dr Sidney  Sax, who is at present the  Chairman  of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission Interim Committee. 
The report on Australian schools is an excellent document. I have not had time to examine it in detail, but from what I have seen of it already I know that it is a magnificent blueprint for education for the 1970s. It is not just an ad hoc survey like the survey that was commissioned by the previous Government. It has all the details we need for a dynamic program for education in the 1970s. In the report is an estimate of the immediate needs in schools and itemised details of what is needed. The report sets out how we should collect the data for an ongoing appraisal of the needs of education. There are recommendations on how to meet those needs and the estimated costs involved. There are firm recommendations on the administration and the structure and the functions of the Australian Schools Commission. The report contains an excellent system by which the Committee ban indexed the recurrent resource use of schools throughout Australia. They have used this system to estimate the needs and how to bring the facilities in schools up to a certain target by 1979. The report sets out the urgent needs for 1974 and 1975. It outlines the problems of all the various areas such as the problems of schools "with socio-economic disadvantages. 
In that regard, I might also mention that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has also spoken about foreign affairs today. That is also a subject set down for discussion tomorrow. Be that as it may, I want to make only passing reference to the subject. I do not think the occassion should be allowed to pass without mentioning the snide remarks of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he spoke on this subject earlier today. In the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission at page 87 he found a sentence which stated that category A schools, which are a small select group of schools in the nongovernment, non-Catholic sector, already use a volume of resources that well exceeds the 1979 target and that the Committee believes that Government assistance to those schools cannot be justified. 
Did the honourable member for Wannon bear in mind the great blueprint of this document for underprivileged schools? He said not a word about that. Did he have anything to say about the new deal for handicapped children? Not a word. Did he have anything to say about the needs being met for migrant children? He said nothing about that. What about the new deal for primary school libraries? There was not a word said about that. All he is concerned about is protecting this small group of elite schools. What did he do? He made a personal, despicable and shameful attack on the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, Professor Peter Karmel, under the veil of making an attack on the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley). 
I am just taking exception to the despicable remarks made today by the honourable member for Wannon, when he made a personal attack on a public servant who is unable to defend himself. It was thinly disguised as an attack on the Minister for Education. Professor Karmel, as we know, is probably the most accomplished person in his field in Australia.  His  integrity is without question. I believe that the honourable member for Wannon should be made to apologise. On the question of the community health program for Australia set out by the Committee headed by  Dr Saks,  I believe this report commends its attention to everybody in Australia and I would particularly commend it to those gentlemen from the Australian Medical Association whose contribution to community health resources will be announced tomorrow when they announce their fee increases. I hope that when they announce those increases that they will give some indication that they are paying regard to what is after all the purpose of a health policy, namely, to provide a system of integrated community care for the whole community. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he investigate whether any non-government schools in South Australia are preventing representatives of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union of Australia from entering their schools properties for the purpose of recruiting members. 
Do all non-government schools receive substantial financial assistance from the Commonwealth. 
If so, will he give an assurance that no public moneys will be granted to any school which denies its employees the democratic right to organise for the purpose of improving their employment conditions. 
I address my question, which concerns Commonwealth expenditure on preschools, to the Minister for Education. When will the administrative structure be set up in the States to assess the priorities for pre-school expenditure? Will the Minister give an assurance that there will be adequate opportunity for submissions to be made in time for the appropriate allocation of expenditure for the 1974 school year? 
 Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to statement No. 3 attached to the Budget Speech which indicates that the increase in money supply was 16.7 per cent during the first half of the year 1972-73, but only 9 per cent in the second half? Can the Treasurer say whether the Government took any action early after taking office to reduce the rate of increase in the money supply? Can the Treasurer say whether that same antiinflationary action would have been carried out by the previous Government? 
The most interesting part of the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was his professed support and sympathy for the weaker members of the community. He must think that honourable members on this side of the House have very short memories. We can remember that he was a member of a Government which 2 years ago was prepared to bring in a budget which directly affected the weaker members of the community. The effect of that budget brought in 2 years ago by the previous Government of which he was a member was to put out of work more than 100,000 Australians. 
I support this Budget. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  for an excellent document and an excellent program of social reform in a wide sphere of activity including health, education, urban transport, other urban problems, social welfare and many other fields. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. The Opposition is basing its case against the Government on a completely false premise. Paragraph 2 of the Opposition's amendment reads as follows: 
With the resources already under strain it applies wrong economic principles by overloading resources, further by expansionary public sector spending; 
It seems to me that the Liberal Party is saying that it is only expenditure in the public sector that is inflationary and that private expenditure is not. Honourable members opposite are saying: 'Let the private sector spending go on in its own way and let us control only the public sector spending.' 
The fact is that private investment is no more or no less inflationary than public investment. Private expenditure means competition for resources in exactly the same way as public investment requires. I do not know why the Opposition wants to overlook this fact. An absurd example of this thinking came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  last night when he referred in his speech to the need for cutting out of the Budget the $107m appropriation for the GidgealpaSydney gas pipeline. It would be just as inflationary whether that expenditure was incurred by a public authority or by private enterprise. How could it be any less inflationary if it were carried out by the Australian Gas Light Co. or by any other private enterprise body rather than by the Australian Government? This was a preposterous argument. 
The fact is that the pipeline needs to be built and the Government made the decision, for very good social reasons, to establish an asset to be held in perpetuity by the people of Australia and for the benefit of the people of Australia. I do not see this as such a revolutionary decision. After all, a previous Liberal Government in South Australia, the Playford Government, took over the Electricity Trust of South Australia to make that an asset for the people of South Australia. That was done in 1946 which suggests that the Federal Liberal Party is 27 years behind the South Australian Liberal Party. 
The Government believes that public investment is needed. If we are to avoid an inflationary situation, it is the private sector which will have to be dampened to some extent. It is irresponsible of the Opposition to oppose, as it has done, all the anti-inflationary measures that this Government has proposed. It is very interesting to look at some of these measures and consider what would have happened if there had not been a change of government last December. Criticisms have been made of this Government's attitude to foreign investment. It is true that this Government has taken very decisive action to prevent the massive flood of foreign investment into Australia. On 23 December last we took action to freeze 25 per cent of foreign capital investment coming into Australia. At the same time the Australian currency was up-valued by some 7 per cent. The effect of this was very considerably to reduce the inflow of foreign capital into Australia. What would have happened if there had been no change of Government? Are we to presume that there would have been the same massive flood of foreign capital into Australia? 
We can see evidence of what might have happened if we look at Statement No. 3 attached to the Budget Papers which shows that in the financial year just gone the money supply increased by 16.7 per cent in the first 6 months whereas in the second 6 months most of which was during the tenure of office of the Labor Government the increase was only 9 per cent. This suggests that if that action had not been taken there would have been an enormously greater volume of money floating around in the community than there is at the present time. What would the Liberals have done in office to overcome this? They have only suggested we should have done something in the Budget. They believe that the Budget should be used to dampen demand. What would they have done to help the economy? I suggest that if the Liberal Government were still in power it would not have revalued or taken any action to control the inflow of foreign investment. I believe that there is reason to suggest that right now there would have been about S750m extra floating around in the community. Would a Liberal Government have taken all that out of the community by budgetary means? How else would it have done it? 
What we are asked to believe is that a government comprising honourable members opposite would have introduced a budget with a deficit of some $750m. Yet everything that the Government has done to try to restrain expenditure in the Budget has been criticised by the Opposition. The Opposition says that we should have increased defence spending. Almost every suggestion in the Coombs task force report for reducing government expen diture has been attacked by the Opposition, so presumably it would have done none of those things. In relation to the Karmel report, presumably the Opposition would like to keep funds up to category A schools. The Opposition is completely irresponsible in suggesting that all these expenditures should continue. Is it suggested that we should do nothing to dampen the private sector? How else are we expected to believe that the alternative government would have gone about restraining inflation? In other words, there is a complete credibility gap in the approach of the Opposition. 
A most important method of countering inflation is to increase productivity. This was mentioned last night by the Leader of the Opposition and we would agree with him. We are all for increasing productivity but it seems that whenever the Government tries to do anything in particular about it the Leader of the Opposition wants to baulk at it. Recently the Federal Government announced a 25 per cent reduction in tariffs. This was surely a most important measure. If possible tariffs must be low rather than high for only if they are can we enable resources to flow into the most efficient industries. This measure will bring about an increase in productivity, and by this mechanism inflation can be restrained. Also - this looms very large with honourable members on this side of the House - if workers are employed in more productive industries they can be paid higher wages both in money terms and in real terms. Yet these very important anti-inflationary measures and measures designed to increase productivity were attacked and opposed by the LiberalCountry Party Opposition. The same can be said for the various subsidies. Surely if we are to get any rationalisation and efficiency in our industries, primary and secondary, we cannot go on interfering with market mechanisms. Yet it is the so-called party of free enterprise which has opposed the actions taken by the Government to allow the market mechanisms to operate and the most efficient industries to develop. 
The main problems we have in Australia at the present time are poverty, inequality and the under-privileged members of our society, particularly the Aborigines. These are the problems of a modern industrialised society with the many social pressures of urban living. We know the great problems we have in our cities with rising drug consumption - I do not mean just illicit drug consumption but also the consumption of drugs such as tranquiliser and barbiturates - and the increa.se in violent crime. All these are tremendously important social problems and things which this Government is determined to do something about. What this requires is a transfer of resources to those areas and to those people where the need is greatest. In a context in which we need a transfer of resources, the sort of action advocated by the Opposition is completely irrelevant. The suggestion of a wage-price freeze is utterly irrelevant. It is like trying to fix somebody who has a fever by tampering with the thermometer. All one is doing is affecting the way in which one calibrates the severity of the problem without getting at the problem itself. What we have to do is tackle these social problems and this is what the Government has done. 
In the field of urban public transport the Government has taken an important new initiative. For the first time money is being spent on suburban railways. I congratulate the Government, if I may be parochial, for the initiatives taken in South Australia, particularly in relation to extending the Christie Downs railway and the electrification of the line. This is a most important rapidly developing part of Adelaide, and this action will provide a much needed facility for the area. I hope that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will give very close consideration to enabling the rolling stock for this railway to be constructed at the Islington workshops of the South Australian railways. The workers there are amongst the finest in the Commonwealth, and history shows that they are capable of carrying out this work. I believe that favourable consideration should be given to that construction being carried out there. For the first time we have direct grants being made for sewerage works in the capital cities. In the past this has been covered by Loan Council allocations but now they are direct non-repayable grants to catch up with the backlog in the provision of sewerage facilities. 
We have important initiatives in the field of community health. At last we are moving towards establishing community health services according to the priorities laid down by the Sax Committee. With those community health services, with heavy emphasis on preventive medicine and with rehabilitation we will make an important break with traditional medical practice in this country and I believe it will be a great breakthrough for the welfare and health of the people of Australia. There have been many problems in the past in the treatment of mental health. I believe that according to some census it is related to the rising consumption of tranquilisers and other sorts of drugs. I believe we must have some sort of break from this tradition. 
The provision in the Budget for the establishment of community mental health centres is, I believe, a tremendously important initiative. In the past Commonwealth expenditure has been confined to providing capital grants towards the cost of mental institutions built by the States. From now on we will be providing incentives for health services to be provided in community mental health centres. If care is provided outside institutions the Commonwealth will provide the capital cost and a large share of the recurrent costs. This is a tremendously important incentive to give to State governments. Those who are enlightened in the management and treatment of mental illness will know and appreciate that this is a most important and enlightened step by the Government not only in the treatment of what is conventionally regarded as mental illness but also in the treatment of alcoholism and drug dependence. 
The Budget also provides for an important outlay to be made for the promotion of dental health. We believe that the most important place to start is with our school children. We believe that by 1980 we will be providing a comprehensive school dental care treatment for every primary school child within Aus; tralia. A most important start has been made in this Budget with the allocation of $7. 6m. If the States that have not adopted fluoridation of water supplies - Victoria and Queensland - can be persuaded to introduce that most important public health measure, I think we can confidently expect that this plus the dental health scheme will mean that dental decay will become virtually a rarity. It will be a curiousity in 10 years' time. Much credit is due to the Government for this important allocation. 
An important field in which resources could compete would be the building industry. The Budget will create a greatly increased demand for buildings particularly welfare housing and school buildings. This means that there will be a heavy demand on resources. What are we going to do about this? We must ensure that resources are diverted from elsewhere because if we just put more money into housing and building without doing anything else or without doing something about the private sector all that will happen is that we will build the same number of dwellings at an increased unit cost. Quite clearly what we must do is to divert resources from elsewhere. I think that the place where we could start would be the excessive high rise redevelopment that is going on in the city areas. Ideally I would like to see this controlled by the Government. We should have a system of capital issues control. It will be very difficult to achieve it. 
I hope that the Government can very soon bring about some control over these institutions so that we can ensure that expenditure is in the most pro-social areas. Until the Government has done this we cannot really rely on the developers themselves because they are not concerned with social priorities. Fortunately there is one group in the community that is concerned with social priorities and that is the employees in the building industry. We are fortunate that the Builders Labourers Federation has acted in Sydney with social responsibility in this area by putting an embargo on certain redevelopment projects within the city of Sydney. The Federation's motive behind this action has been to conserve some of Sydney's historic sites and to maintain the basic character of the Sydney area. I suggest that perhaps an equally worthy motive might be that priorities should go into providing schools and housing for low income people at least until such time as the Commonwealth has the legislative power to control capital issues. 
Another step which we must take is to place fringe banking organisations under the control of the Reserve Bank of Australia. We have already taken action to call up the statutory reserve deposits of the conventional banking organisations but there is no doubt that this must also be carried out in other areas such as the hire purchase organisations otherwise the measure will be insufficiently effective. In this way I think we will have to dampen down demand in the private sector of the economy. What we will have to do, perhaps in the case of hire purchase companies, is to set up statutory reserve deposits which can be frozen. I do not believe that the interest rate is a good weapon to use to ration the inflow of money into the housing sector because this might mean that it will go to the  highest bidder. If we just limit the amount of money available by calling up statutory reserve deposits as we do with the banking sector we could then just establish a waiting list in order of application the same as the public housing authorities do in the various States. It has been argued by some people that if we limit the number of loans available the money will just go to the wealthiest people because they are the most credit worthy. I do not think this is necessarily the case. We have the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation which should enable lenders to lend to borrowers according to the order in which they apply irrespective of what their income or their socalled credit worthiness is. 
Another area - I am sure the Government  has given some attention to this - where action must be taken relates to increasing the supply in certain sectors where there are bottlenecks in the building industry. The case of the bricklayers is well known. However, perhaps it is not so well known that there is no shortage of people who are trying to get into the trade. I think that one of the problems is that with the prevalence of sub-contracting there is a reluctance on the part of these operatives to take on apprentices. Perhaps what we could do is for the Government to give preference to people employing day labour and those people would have some incentive to take on apprentices. Another measure that wc could adopt is to give some sort of incentive to people who take on apprentices so that we can help overcome this bottleneck. 
I think the most deafening silence of all from the Opposition has been the failure of its supporters to say anything about the great problem of food prices. Perhaps this is because they are so concerned about the rural rump which occupies a corner of the House on the other side. They are frightened to face up to the basic problem. If we are going to do anything, as I said when this question was referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, a decision has to be made about meat prices. We either have to restrain the export flow of meat or we are just going to cop it. I know there are problems both ways but there is absolutely no other measure which will effectively counter this problem. I have much pleasure in supporting the Budget. I congratulate the Treasurer. I urge the House to throw out the capricious amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the Liberal Party propaganda being used for the Parramatta by-election, pointing out that meat pies in New South Wales now cost 23c. Is the Prime Minister aware that meat pies are under price control in South Australia where their price is only 17c - that is without sauce? Would it not be competent for the New South Wales Government to put pies under control forthwith? Has he any indication from the New South Wales Government or its Liberal Federal colleagues as to whether they are prepared to confer power on the Australian Parliament to control the price of Australia's national delicacy? 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Gwydir. Is the Prime Minister aware that the South Australian Government has foreshadowed legislation to control land prices to an increase of 7 per cent per annum? Is he aware that since this policy was announced earlier this year the rapid rise in land prices in parts of Adelaide has ceased and that in certain areas, such as Salisbury and Tea Tree Gully, the price increase has gone down from a 30 per cent increase in 3 months to a 4 per cent increase in the 6 months since? What action has been taken on these lines by State Liberal governments? What action, for instance, has the New South Wales Government taken in suburbs west of Sydney? Will the carriage of a prices referendum or reference of powers from the States to the Commonwealth on this matter give the Commonwealth power to restrain increases in land prices along the lines of the action of the South Australian Government? 
I think it is worth reminding the House that this is a Bill for a referendum. It is a Bill which will enable the people of Australia, if they so choose, to confer certain power on the Australian Parliament to control the economy, namely, the power to make laws on prices. It is most important to note that the Bill does not give the Australian Parliament power to control prices. It asks the people of Australia to decide by referendum whether they want the Australian Parliament to have that power. Opposition to Commonwealth price control is quite a different matter from opposition to letting the people of Australia decide. People listening to this debate on the radio or otherwise following the course of the debate ought to be made fully aware of the fact that the opponents of this Bill, that is, the Liberal and 
Country parties in this Parliament, are opposing the right of the people of Australia to exercise their choice and their judgment on this matter. It is quite extraordinary that the Liberal and Country parties fear the judgment of the people of Australia. They do not trust the Australian people. 
The Liberal and Country parties have of course seen the public opinion polls and they know the overwhelming majority of Australia, people believe that the Commonwealth should have power to make laws on prices. That is why the Opposition has taken this offensive paternalistic attitude of denying the people of Australia a choice on the matter. If the Liberal and Country parties believe they have a sound case for opposing Commonwealth power over prices they should go out and convince the people of their case but this cowardly attitude of trying to deny the people's right to decide for themselves is typical of the opposition parties' contempt for the electorate. 
I would like to say something about the question of incomes. My colleague, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  has referred to this matter. There is already a substantial control through the conciliation and arbitration mechanisms of the people's incomes at the present time. Even apart from that there is a latent power which the Commonwealth possesses to control incomes through the taxation mechanism. We could go even further than that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  offered today to facilitate the passage of a Bill for a referendum on whether the Commonwealth should have power to control incomes if the Opposition wished to put that up. But what have we heard from the Opposition? Nothing at all. 
There is only one way in which the Commonwealth can obtain power over prices and that is by an alteration to the Constitution. Yet the Liberal and Country parties are against that. Clearly they are not fair dinkum. It is remarkable how the Liberal and Country parties have opposed almost every antiinflationary measure that this Government has introduced. It certainly looks as if they want to see the national economy reduced to chaos so that they might be able to scrape back into government. Revaluation of the dollar and tariff reductions were both denounced by Opposition spokesmen. Then there was the Coombs task force recommendation for a reduction in Government expenditure. Yet nearly every action taken by the Government pursuant to the recommendations of the task force to reduce expenditure was attacked by the Opposition. It is, of course, the duty of the Opposition to oppose, but surely as the alternative Government of this country it also has a duty to exercise a responsible attitude to the national economy. 

 Mi Hurford -  It should be responsible in opposition, not an irresponsible Opposition. 
Quite so. The purpose of this exercise, that is, to give the Commonwealth power over prices, is not to implement a great network of artificial controls. The Government believes that wherever it is possible the market mechanism should be allowed to operate. Unlike previous Liberal-Country Party governments the Labor Government practices what it preaches. It has altered the currency alignment to realistic levels. It has reduced the tariff to realistic levels. It has introduced a restrictive trade practices law which will have a real effect in reducing prices. What a contrast this is to previous governments with their feather-bedding of industrial friends and the people who have paid for the building of McEwen House, which is the imposing headquarters of the Country Party. The Liberal-Country Party Government governed by granting subsidies, perks and handouts to sectional interests whereas the Labor Party believes that the way to govern is to maximise productivity by preventing interference with market forces wherever possible. I remind the House of the trade practices legislation introduced by the previous Government. What an empty exercise that was. It was a completely toothless tiger and made no impact on prices at all. 
I have said that it is not the purpose of this Government to set up a network of controls over prices. That would bring about distortions, scarcity and intolerable social pressures. That may be what the Leader of the Opposition wants, but it is not what the Australian people want. However, there is a pressing need for price control in certain very important areas. Price control is warranted in those areas where the market mechanism is prevented from operating. The prime example is in land prices. In most circumstances the price mechanism operates to increase the supply of  given commodity. However, there is only a limited amount of land available. As Will Rogers said: 'Buy land son - they are not making it any more'. Price increases in respect of land will not help to make any more land available. As rising land prices do not serve any useful purpose they should be restrained. I mentioned this morning at question time how highly effective has been the action taken in this area by the South Australian Labor Government. Another area is in the price of trade and professional services. Here the price increases do not bring about an increase in the supply of professional people because of the restraints imposed by them on the numbers entering their ranks. In these cases increased charges represent a monopoly situation which should be restrained. Another example is in the field of drug manufacturing. In this area we should consider doing what I suggested to the Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits in the time of the last Parliament. I said: 
It is possible that some planned market-sharing is occurring. Even if this is so however, it would not be undesirable provided that a firm control is kept over pricing policies of companies to ensure that the public gets the benefits of resulting economies of scale. 
In other words, we could let company A have the whole run on a particular antibiotic providing certain quality controls are ensured and providing proper price controls are implemented to ensure that the company does not exploit the situation. Another example is in the motor vehicle industry. This is another area where price restraints might well be justified. The Government takes the view, with which I think most people agree, that it is at present desirable that Australia have a viable motor vehicle manufacturing industry. It is also desirable that we do not have a fragmented industry because a country with a small population cannot have too many manufacturers in the field. Consequently it will no doubt be necessary to divide the domestic market among a limited number of manufacturers. To prevent those manufacturers from exploiting their favoured position, some control over their prices will surely be necessary. In all these cases which I have mentioned there has been some limitation of competition or some other distortion which requires an imposition of price control. Price control is a necessary part of any Government's arsenal to control the economy and inflation, but it is only a part. Equally important are measures such as avoiding excessive tariff protection and the use of monetary and fiscal measures and an effective trade practices legislation. 
Price control is not a panacea in itself and the Government will certainly not be stampeded into accepting any price-wage freeze as a short term measure or as any panacea at all. It will not work; it is worse than useless. It adversely affects low income earners. The more highly paid worker can get around wage controls by receiving expense payments and other fringe benefits. The less well paid cannot get such privileges. Extra income from overtime or over-award payments should not be discouraged. They are a natural part of the market mechanism, enabling resources to be used where they are most efficient. This leaves those cases where excessive wages can be granted in disregard of economic effects. The cases where that occurs are where the employer knows that he can pass on excessive wage costs in higher prices. This again will occur only where there is an anti-competitive situation such as where there is a monopoly. In such a case the excessive wage rise is controlled by controlling the price or by getting rid of the monopoly. The employer will not grant an excessive wage increase if he cannot pass on the cost. This measure will give a most important weapon to the national Government to enable it to control the economy. It is absurd that the national Government does not possess that power already. I am sure that if they are given the opportunity the Australian people will endorse the proposal. If the Liberal and Country parties oppose this Bill they will not only deny the responsibility of the national Parliament to control the national economy but also they will deny the Australian people the right to say at referendum what they want. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that certain State Health Departments have considerable experience in the planning and operation of school dental services. 
Has the Dental Services Advisory Committee been formed to draw on the experience of the States and formulate a national policy for school dental health services. 
Has the Commonwealth issued directives to the States on the planning and operation of school dental clinics. 
If so, have these directives been pursuant to the recommendations of the Dental Services Advisory, Committee. 
If not, how and by whom have the recommendations been formulated. 
I wish to deal with Division 546 of Appropriation Bill (No.l) 1973-74, which relates to the Grants Commission and which is included in the appropriation for the Department of the Special Minister of State. In particular, I refer to the recent amendments to the Grants Commission Act, which enable grants to be made to local government. That was a very great step forward for local government. It was one of the many important reforms of the Whitlam Ministry. It is a reform which never would have been achieved under a Liberal government. The attitude of the Liberal Party of Australia to local government was well illustrated at the Constitutional Convention held in Sydney recently. At the Convention Liberal Party spokesmen from the various State parliaments repeatedly spoke out against local government being able to deal directly with the Com monwealth Government, either by the receipt of grants or by having representation on the Loan Council. It was extraordinary to hear claims by Liberal Party speakers that if their local councils took money from the Commonwealth they would lose their financial independence. It is worth noting that this extraordinary argument has never been used by mendicant States. They have always been quite willing to take money from the Grants Commission and have never suggested that the States would be any worse off by getting this money. The fact is, of course, that the payment of section 96 grants to local councils will remove many of the constraints under which they now operate. 
The responsibilities of local governments have expanded greatly in recent years and they now carry out a much broader range of activities than they did when local governments were first set up. However, over that time the ability of councils to raise revenue has not expanded in line with their responsibilities. Councils still depend largely on rate revenue. Rates were originally intended to be a charge on land. This was to be used to provide improvements for that land, such as roads, footpaths and similar facilities. These were therefore the main matters which concerned local government. Now, however, local government is involved in many other activities, such as those of a welfare nature. As these are not greatly related to property improvements local governments should be given extra finance by methods other than taxes on property. In other words, they should be financed out of the same revenue as other governments use to pay for their welfare services, that is, local councils must have access to Commonwealth revenue. That was the reason why the recent amendments were brought in by the Government. 
The principle of payments from the Grants Commission will be the same as now applies to the States, that is, it will enable the local governments, if they undertake reasonable revenue raising efforts themselves, to provide a standard of services and amenities comparable with that enjoyed by other communities elsewhere. This measure will help the people - I emphasise the word 'people' - who depend on local government for services, particularly in those areas which have been unable to provide a standard of services which Australians should reasonably expect. However, the Liberal Party speakers at the Constitutional Convention did not seem interested in the rights of the people. They were more concerned with what they called the rights of State governments. It was amazing how Liberal Party speakers who were so against being dictated to by the central Government in Canberra were so centralist themselves when it came to their relationships with local governments. 
The areas which will benefit particularly under this new provision are mainly made up of new housing developments. I have such areas in my own electorate where there are no long established areas to help to distribute the burden of paying for local government works and services. Every area requires such works. The problem is compounded because most of the families are young and are paying for houses at a time when the home repayments form a high proportion of their incomes. The responsibilities of councils in these areas are great, but their ability to raise revenue is limited unless supplementary assistance comes from the Commonwealth via the Grants Commission. I would like briefly to refer to the requirement that local councils form regional groupings. I thank the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for coming into the House to hear what I have to say although this matter comes under the control of the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee).  We all know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has a very important role to play under this provision. 
In general I agree with the principle of regionalisation. I think that grants for specific projects, such as those which will be provided by the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Cities Commission, will serve a good purpose. However, in the case of payments from the Grants Commission I can think of examples where regions would not be of great value. For instance, supposing requirements for Commonwealth assistance within a region are not uniform; in other words, different councils within the one region have different requirements. How will the grant to such a region be divided up? Clearly someone will have to apportion the grant between the different councils in that region. This can be done in one of two ways. The grant could be divided up on a basis decided upon by the councils themselves or the apportioning could be done by the Grants Commission. Consider the first alternative. I believe it will be quite impracticable to expect the councils forming a regional grouping to divide a grant between themselves except in the unlikely chance of their getting complete agreement amongst themselves. If there were any disagreement the regional body would have no statutory author ity to resolve any difficulties, because the regional grouping can be only a uniform arrangement. 
Clearly the Grants Commission will have to decide the needs of individual councils in such cases. I believe the Minister agrees with that view. Therefore we might as well allow individual local governments to approach the Grants Commission in the first place. No doubt regions will have a decisive say at some future time but this will be surely in the long term. The provision of assistance to local governments should not have to await clarification of what the regions are, what they will do and how they will do it. I urge the Government and the Minister to allow individual councils to deal directly with the Grants Commission so that this much needed and most welcome reform can get under way and assistance can be provided to local government authorities in the next Federal Budget. 
This Bill provides for the expenditure of the unprecedented sum of S2 18.7m on public housing over a period of 12 months. At last some assistance is to be given to the low income earner who wants to provide shelter for his family. This Bill represents the first real breakthrough in welfare housing. The persons who want this type of housing from the housing commissions or housing trusts in the States have had to wait 23 years for a Federal Labor Government to be elected and to provide this type of provision to meet their needs. This Bill, perhaps more than any other Bill brought down by the Whitlam Government, is the embodiment of the fundamental differences in approach and philosophy between the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Labor Party. This Bill will make funds available to the State governments pursuant to the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. That agreement replaces the agreement made between the previous Federal Liberal Government and the States. 
There are many important differences between the present Agreement and the one it replaces. The two most important differences are the amount of money to be made available and the interest rate payable. An amount of $21 8.7m will be made available to the States for public housing. It is not possible to make an exact comparison between that figure and the figure made available under the previous Federal Government because previously the States determined the amount to be made available. However, last year the States made available a total of SI 67m for housing. Compared with that figure, the provision of $2 18m this year represents an increase of more than 30 per cent. This is an enormous increase in the allocation for welfare housing, and it signifies tha great priority which the Federal Labor Government puis on providing housing for families with a limited income. 
The other great difference from the previous Agreement is the reduction in the rate of interest payable. This, of course, means much lower rents or repayments. The interest rate difference also would be difficult to calculate compared with the previous scheme, but I believe that a reduction of at least one per cent under this Agreement would be a conservative estimate. It is no secret that the housing industry is over stretched at the moment and that the supply of houses cannot match the high level of demand. That is why the Government has had to take some action to reduce the demand for housing in the private sector. It is not action that the Government enjoys taking; nevertheless some action was necessary. When one is in Opposition of course, one can afford the luxury of criticising anything and everything that the Government does. In Opposition one can criticise the Government because there is inflation, but because all anti-inflationary measures are unpopular one also can criticise the Government for taking them. 
As far as the Government is concerned, the situation is quite straightforward. Had we not taken action to reduce the demand for housing, we would simply have raised even further the cost of building a home. If we have so much land, labour and materials we can build only so many homes. Merely to put more money into the housing field will not build any more houses; it will only raise the unit cost. The Labor Government, because of its prime commitment to the less privileged, has increased its expenditure on welfare housing. Until we can increase the supply of manpower and materials, we have to slow down the activity in the private sector. This, of course, is the complete opposite to what Liberal governments would do and have done. It is the public housing sector that they would restrain. Even now the Opposition is admonishing the Government to cut government expenditure. Presumably the Opposition means that we should reduce the expenditure on public housing. In other words, the Opposition would let the private housing sector have its head, and to hell with the hapless families -who are queueing up for public housing from State housing commissions. This would be to take the line of least resistance, but it is something which the Labor Government is not prepared to do. 
It is important to see the difference between controlling the level of private housing and controlling the level of government housing. In the government housing field one simply establishes a queue. This is easy to do because the State housing commissions are in a monopoly position. The applicant for a housing commission or housing trust home has nowhere else to turn. In contrast, to control lending for private housing is much more complicated. The Government has no legislative authority to control the amount of lending, except from the banks. Outside the banks the fringe banking organisations, such as the hire purchase companies, the building societies, the trust funds and so on, cannot be controlled. Therefore it is not surprising that Liberal governments took the easy way out. They let the financial institutions, which lend for private housing, do what they liked and controlled the aggregate demand for housing by choking off the necessary funds for public housing. That is quite a simple policy to implement, provided one is prepared to disregard the neediest families in the community - and that is just what the Liberal government's record shows they did. In 1955, of all houses being built in Australia one out of five was being built by a government housing authority. But by 1972 this figure had fallen to one in ten. Equally revealing are the housing expenditure figures set out in Federal Budgets. In the 1954-55 Budget housing funds made up 2.68 per cent of Government expenditure, but in 1971-72 the figure had fallen to 1.8 per cent. What a policy! The previous Government let the private financial institutions do what they liked and it regulated the economy by turning the screw on the low income earner who was trying to provide shelter for his family. 
In contrast to that policy, the Labor Government will be bringing in legislation to control the fringe banking institutions. This will enable the Government to regulate the volume of money going into the private housing sector. It is true that the Government does have indirect controls in the form of interest rates on government bonds, but these are crude controls. These controls have been used. It is true that they have caused interest payments on private housing to rise. There are measures which the Government has been reluctant to take, but I would like to say this: The increased interest payments may have made housing more expensive, but housing would have become more expensive still if nothing at all had been done. If the liquidity problem had not been acted on, housing costs would have gone through the roof; they would have had a bigger rise than any increase which has occurred from any increase in interest payments. These controls have been made necessary because at present the Government lacks the power directly to control the fringe banking institutions, but we expect that the Parliament will soon - that is, this year - pass legislation to give the Government the power it needs. When the Government has that power, private housing will be able to be allocated in the same way as public housing - that is, according to the order in which applications are made and not according to who can meet the highest repayments. I should mention also that the Government will be introducing another important measure to assist low income families in particular to own their own homes. That is a system of tax deductibility on interest payments on homes. 
The Bill before the House and the Government's housing policies are aimed at diverting the provision of homes to families with limited incomes. However, the ultimate aim of the Government's policies is to bring about an increase in the aggregate number of houses built. This is not a question of making money available; rather is it a question of supply - the supply of land, manpower and materials. A great deal of ink has been spilt on how to contain land prices and to control land speculation. It would be wrong to understate the difficulties which exist. However, there are things which can be done, and I am pleased to say that some of them are being done. To the measures already announced by the Government I would like to suggest one or two additional measures. 
The decision by the government to establish an Australian land commission is a most important one. The commission will act to acquire in Commonwealth Territories new land for development and subdivision by the Crown. Perhaps I should hesitate to use the word 'Crown' in this day and age and instead say 'the Government on behalf of the people of Australia'. Money will be provided by the commission to State governments to enable them to do the same in areas under their jurisdiction. This will be of benefit where the State governments are prepared to enact complementary legislation such as that which has been foreshadowed by the progressive Government in South Australia. In addition to setting in train legislation to establish a land commission for the purchase of land by the Crown, that Government has foreshadowed legislation to restrain increases in land prices to 7 per cent per annum. As a supplement to this measure I would like to suggest the imposition of a capital gains tax on land, except that under my proposition it would be a capital gains tax with a difference. The capital gain would be taxed away whether or not the capital gain had been realised. For example, if an unearned increment takes place in the value of land after subtracting the value of the improvements which have been provided, I believe that the increment should be taxed away from the person who owns that land even though the sale may not have been carried out. In a way, it is really more of a tax on assets than a tax on capital gains. I believe that this would be what is often said about taxes on assets; it would require that asset to be sold in order to pay the tax and, of course, this would have the very desirable result of making more land available, at the expense of the land speculator. 
The land commission could perform another very important function in a situation where there was some dispute with a landholder in regard to the value of his land. For example, if it were decided that a certain capital gain had taken place in the value of the land and the landholder said 'I believe that the valuation is unfairly high', the land commission could offer to acquire the land from the owner at the lower price - in other words, at the valuation given by the person who owned the land. If it is bought at the price suggested by the Crown the increased capital gain could be taxed away from the vendor. As I say, I believe this would have the very beneficial effect of increasing land sales and it would also increase revenue from people who may be well able to afford to pay it. This may have an additional spin-off of drying up excess liquidity and it may enable more rapid action to be taken to reduce interest rates in the private housing sector. 
Another measure which I believe should be taken, which has been taken to some extent, and an area where I think perhaps we could do a little more is in the field of foreign investment which is purchasing residential and commercial land in Australia, particularly around metropolitan areas. The Government has already taken important measure to restrain the inflow of foreign capital which is purchasing residential and commercial land in our cities. However I believe we will have to be even more heavy handed in this matter. After the recent visit by an Australian parliamentary delegation to 
China, when I was in Hong Kong I was discussing this with some individuals there, who were asking me what the prospects were like for investing money in land in Australia. I suspect that this is often the case; that this is really refuge money that is coming into Australia. Foreign investors think that Australia has a pretty good political climate and it is a good place to put their money. That is all very well except that it is making it pretty costly for Australians who want to buy their houses. I believe that we have to be quite ruthless in this field and quite heavy handed with our foreign exchange regulations to ensure that foreign capital coming into Australia is not used to make residential land more expensive for Australian families. I feel very strongly on this matter. 
Another matter that has been mentioned on a number of occasions by the Minister for Housing and I welcome this, is a further look at the question of industrialised housing. Of course the provision of such housing has been the practice in South Australia for some years and I believe it is something that could be developed much further. Unfortunately there are problems with the provision of industrialised housing, and very often those problems reside in the attitude of local government authorities, which sometimes adopt a rather negative approach to the construction of factory made houses. For instance, in my own electorate there are Housing Trust homes which were in fact built in the United Kingdom, but under present local government authority conditions those houses could not be built. I think that perhaps we have to have a further look at ways and means of overcoming this problem. I think that further research into the industrial housing field will come up with methods of design that will be acceptable to local government organisations. I think, though, that it is also a question of consultation between local government authorities and the Commonwealth, and in this era in which the Australian Government is according greater recognition to the needs and problems of local government it is a very propitious time for us to discuss this problem with local government authorities. I think it is a most important field, particularly when there are bottlenecks, particularly with certain manpower problems, for instance, with bricklayers. There is a shortage of that type of building operative, and I think the industrial housing question could be a way of overcoming this problem. 
I would like just briefly to ask the Minister for Housing to give some consideration to the question of restructuring payment of interest. At the present time when a family buys a house, in the early years of home repayments the repayment forms an inordinately high percentage of that family's income. That is because a rate of interest is struck at the beginning of the loan and that average rate of interest is sustained throughout the entire period of the loan. Might I suggest that there are other ways interest payments could be made. For example, in the early part of the loan a notional low interest rate below the average could be paid and as the person's income rises through his working life we could raise the rate of interest to  ebove  the average in the latter part of his working life. This would take some of the burden off the young family which has many other commitments in trying to pay off a house. This would transfer the burden and make the cost a more constant proportion of income throughout a person's working life. This is a subject that has been canvassed by Professor Downing, amongst others. I think it is something we could look at because I believe it could mean a great deal of financial relief to young families. 
Finally, I mention one other matter. We are not actually discussing the terms of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, but this is after all the Budget appropriation for that Agreement for this year. There was one item in the Agreement which I believe the Commonwealth Minister and the States ought to h 'e another look at, and that is the provision relating to resale of houses. I completely agree, of course, with the low rate of interest that is being provided for people to purchase their homes. That is very solidly in accord with Labor Party principles and I would not depart from that at all. But of course, it is possible that a person's financial position might improve and he then might be able to make a considerable capital gain out of the sale of the house which was originally purchased at a subsidised rate of interest. This cannot be done for the first 5 years because the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement provides that the housing commission shall be given first option to repurchase i  the first 5 years. But after that 5 years it only says that the State Minister may require that the housing commission be given first option to repurchase. I believe that the housing commission should be given first option indefinitely, in other words beyond the 5-year term. 
In conclusion I congratulate the Government for a magnificent breakthrough that has been achieved on behalf of the low income earners for whom we are trying to provide shelter. I think this is a measure which should be commended throughout the length and breadth of this land. I wholeheartedly support the legislation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This is the first time since I have been in this Parliament that I have heard the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  speak on any subject that had any relevance to economics. Having beard his first efforts since I have been here I think he would be better off sticking to his pop-guns. It is obvious from what the honourable member said that ,he is very unhappy about the opposition of the Liberal Party to this Bill because he said almost nothing in support of it. We have just heard the honourable member for Barker demeaning himself and sacrificing any integrity he ever had at the altar of the Australian Country Party. It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Barker is extremely worried about the activities of the Country Party in South Australia and particularly the activities of the Country Party in the electorate of Barker. So he is pretty quick to jump off the bandwagon of his own party and dissociate himself from the decision of that party to support the Bill. 
It is a perfect example of trying to have 2 bob each way. This Bill is one of enormous importance. Its purpose is to ensure that there is proper justification for all forms of government assistance to private industry. It means an end to the pork barrel type of politics which have been practised for so many years by successive Liberal and Country Party governments and especially by the Country Party. In future all forms of government assistance to industry will have to be subject to rigorous analysis to ensure that it will mean the most efficient use of the nation's resources. From now on, before any forms of State aid are to be given to any private industry it will be mandatory for the matter to be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for report. After the Commission has made its report the Government can make its decision one way or the other. It does not mean that the Government must carry out the recommendations of the Commission, otherwise that would mean that the Commission would be usurping the role of the Government. 
The Commission's role will be advisory only. But if the Government makes a decision which differs from the recommedations of the Commission the Government will be morally obliged to give a public justification for its departure from a decision which was made by an impartial body. This means a very great change from the days when state aid to industry was doled out on the basis of Country Party patronage. It is scarcely surprising, therefore, that the Country Party is so strongly opposed to this legislation. It is contrary to its whole system of government which consists of handing out state aid to sectional interest groups at the expense of the taxpayers and the consumers. 
It is no wonder that the Country Party opposes this measure. Let us not forget who paid for the building of McEwen House, the lavish headquarters of the Country Party in Canberra. Of course, it was the recipients of political patronage under the wing of the Country Party. No doubt these are the same people who enabled the Country Party to purchase its splendid premises in Mugga Way, Canberra. These people will not stand for being displaced from their positions of privilege. The Country Party is dead scared of there being an impartial inquiry into its method of government. Without doubt, many Country Party schemes would never have hit the deck if they had had to go before the Industries Assistance Commission. A very obvious example of this is the wool deficiency payments scheme which subsidised wool prices so that growers received at least 36c per lb for their wool. The great trouble with the scheme was that the more wool a grower sold, the more he received. So the big growers - the ones who least needed help - received the most. That is precisely what the Country Party intended. But if the proposal had gone to an industries assistance commission some more equitable method would have been found to help those wool growers who were most in difficulty. 
The Australian Labor Party believes in intervention where it is necessary to protect full employment and to ensure high living standards. For that reason we believe that assistance to private industry - whether it is primary, secondary or tertiary - must be based on sound economic or social grounds and not on short term political gain. The Australian Labor Party believes in economic planning. The Commission will be able to carry out effective economic planning to ensure that Australia's resources of material, manpower, technical knowhow and capital can be used to ensure rising living standards for all Australians. This Government has already taken some very courageous and important economic decisions. I refer to decisions such as the revaluation of the Australian dollar and the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs. Not surprisingly, these decisions have drawn criticism from certain special interest groups. But they were essential decisions under the prevailing economic conditions. 
In these circumstances I think it is worth looking at the attitude of the 2 Opposition parties. The Liberal Party' was pretty nonspecific and generalised in its criticism. For the most part its members were careful not to criticise specifically the decisions that were taken. The one exception that surprised me was the view expressed earlier tonight by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards).  I hope to have enough time to refer to what he said. As far as the Country Party was concerned, there was no equivocation. There was round condemnation of those responsible decisions taken by the Government. We have seen, as we so often see, a division of opinion betwen the Country Party and the Liberal Party. It is the same sort of situation we had when the question of revaluation of the currency arose in 1971. I suggest that the people of Australia ought to ponder over this question because it will always be the Country Party that prevails. I have no doubt that when the decision about the currency was being taken in 1971 the Country Party members of the Cabinet threatened to withdraw from the coalition unless they got their way on the currency alignment. I say to the people of Australia: Do not be deceived by the support the Liberal Party is giving to this Bill because if the day ever comes again when there is a non-Labor Government in Australia it will be the Country Party that makes the decisions and the Liberals, as they have always done, will meekly follow along behind. 
Just have a look at what has happened in regard to the Bill before the House. The Country Party is against it. The Liberals say that they are in favour of it. Which side has vigorously come forward and put its point of view? Has it been the Liberals? Of course not. They let the Leader of the Country Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  lead for the Opposition. The Leader of the minority Party led for the 
Opposition. What happened when the honourable member for Berowra led for the Liberal Party? What did members of the Country Party do? They staged a walk out. Only one member of the Country Party remained. They showed their digust. They are prepared to bludgeon their coalition friends to get whatever they want. 
I believe that there are people within the Liberal Party who know that the measure that we have introduced is a correct measure. Probably the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who now is in the chamber, appreciates that this is a just and correct measure. However the Liberals do not want to make the running. They let the Country Party make the running for them every time. While the right honourable Leader of the Country Party loudly pleads for the retention of pork barrel politics the Liberals are cowed into silence. This is how the coalition works in opposition and is certainly how it would work in government. As I have said, there may be some men of goodwill within the Liberal Party but in all cases they will be cowed by the gross materialism of the Country Party. The Country Party wants to continue giving handouts to all industries without their having to be subject to scrutiny. 
The attitude of the Australian Labor Party is to give assistance to industries where such assistance can be publicly justified and shown to be in the interests of the recipients and of the community at large. We want assistance to be justified on proper social and economic grounds, not on the ground of political patronage. The Industries Assistance Commission will be able to carry out effective long term planning. It will be something more than the present system under which the Tariff Board makes an ad hoc examination of particular industries to see whether they are economic or efficient. 
I want to make a few random remarks about the functions of the Commission in this regard. It will not just make ad hoc examinations of individual industries; it will consider the overall allocation of resources in Australia in primary, secondary and tertiary industries. I agree - I think we all agree - that we should provide adequate protection for economic and efficient industries, but we have to look beyond that. If we look at comparative efficiencies of different industries we should honestly say which industry might - be the more efficient. 
The more economic and more efficient industry might be that which by definition requires a lesser degree of assistance from the Government. I think that this is a consideration which applies especially in rural industries. 
The most important function of protection is the provision of full employment. I am very pleased to see that this is spelled out as a most important factor in clause 22(1) of the Bill. This, of course, is consonant with the policy of the Australian Labor Party which is the Party of full employment. At the same time we should be directing our resources to areas where we can provide full employment while at the same time avoiding excessive protection. If we can provide full employment without providing excessive protection, we will gain higher living standards for Australian workers. It will mean that the capacity of industry to pay higher wages is much increased, and in the long term I believe that it will mean greater employment opportunities. 
There may be other non-economic reasons for providing protection or assistance to an industry. The Industries Assistance Commission might look at an industry and decide that on economic grounds alone there may not be justification for assistance to it, but it will be able to look at other factors as well and the Government, in subsequent consideration of the matter, also can look at other factors. There are other reasons why protection may be justified even if there is no aggregate unemployment. There are particular cases. For instance, a decentralised industry may require some special assistance. I suggest that, if part of an industry is decentralised, the best way to protect it might be to give that part a special subsidy rather than to give an across the board subsidy to all people operating in that industry. 
Another reason for special assistance might be on the social ground that a particular industry is providing for females employment which otherwise might not be available. Apart from economic grounds, we sometimes justify the retention or provision of assistance to an industry which may be inefficient on the basis that if that industry were to go it would mean that many workers in that industry, either primary or secondary, might have to be uprooted and to change their whole way of life. That action might not be justified on social grounds. We have to bear in mind, when we say this, that the person involved might be paying some price for not going into a different industry. The price he might be paying is the capacity to earn a higher wage in another industry which is more efficient. 
There has been one other important revolutionary change in attitude to tariff policy during the lifetime of the Whitlam Government. This change came about during the recent 25 per cent reduction in tariffs. I refer, of course, to the provision of S25m assistance to those industries and employees who may have been or may be affected adversely by the tariff reduction. This is a most important innovation. I think that pretty soon we must come to the time when if, for any reason - technological change, alterations in tariff policies, mergers or any other reason - a worker is required to change his job he will require support to ensure that he does not lose anything in wages, he will require support in retraining and he may even require support in re-housing and moving himself and his family to a place more convenient to his employment. 
I should like to refer briefly to a matter that was raised by the honourable member for Berowra before dinner. I was very surprised to hear him express opposition to the 25 per cent tariff reduction. I really find it hard to believe that he is opposed to the proposition. It is a good idea to reduce tariffs without causing unemployment, if that can be done. If there is a time to reduce tariffs, surely in the present economic circumstances this is the time. The honourable member for Berowra suggested that after the industrial boom in certain Western European countries quietens down there may be a flood of imports which could cause some degree of unemployment in Australia. I find this proposition hard to accept, especially at present when there are 80,000 unfilled job vacancies within Australia. The implementation of the policies of the Government is creating a considerable number of employment positions within the public sector, which means, of course, in the fields of education, housing and health. Apart from that, there is a radical departure from previous policies in that there is a reduction in the overall immigration quota. 
In those circumstances I find it extremely hard to accept the proposition that anything this Government has done has compromised in any way the employment situation in Australia. Even if a situation of unemployment did arise, we have provision for temporary assistance to be applied on an emergency basis, as any honourable member who reads the present legislation can readily see. If we are to restructure industry to bring it to its most efficient state, surely now, in the present economic circumstances, is the time to bring about such a change. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill. I am sure that it is a correct economic decision and that the result of it will be a great improvement in the living standards of the people of Australia. I point out that this Bill would not have been achieved under any government other than an Australian Labor Party government. Honourable members can be sure that if the Australian Labor Party were not in power, whatever members of the Liberal Party felt about the Bill they would be stood over by their Country Party coalition partners who would do what they have done on every occasion in this Parliament that a progressive measure suggested by this Government has been debated - oppose it. 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the Minister for Social Security noted recent Press reports in Adelaide concerning allegations by the  President  of the Federal Wine and Grape Growers. Council of Australia that some people were approaching prospective employers in the industry asking them to declare falsely that work was unavailable in order that unemployment benefits could continue to be paid? Has he had the opportunity to investigate these allegations and, if so, what truth is there in them? 
I did not intend to enter into this debate but the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  raised a couple of matters of some significance. Honourable members may recall that a couple of years ago reference was made in this chamber to matters being referred by the Tariff Board to outside bodies such as Monash University which was conducting a dynamic model study of the Australian economy and the effects that certain alterations to tariffs might have throughout the economy.  Mr Chairman,  you may recall that at that time the question was raised whether it was proper for these outside authorities to have access to confidential material that had been made available to the Board. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has said - I agree with him - that it is highly desirable that all the expertise in the country be made available for the use and the help of the Industries Assistance Commission when it carries out its deliberations. I hope that when it makes decisions on matters not only will it have regard to departmental submissions and submissions from bodies such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics but also it will be able to draw on the academic expertise and experience that is available in the various universities and other academic institutions. I hope that consideration will be given at some future time to the question whether assistance from outside should be made available specifically to the Industries Assistance Commission so that there will be no doubt about the legitimacy of certain material being made available to these outside personnel when they are drawing up submissions and gathering data to help the Commission in its deliberations. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 22. 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to the desire of the Australian Government, in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia, with full employment, stability in the general level of prices, viability in external economic relations, conservation of the natural environment and rising and generally enjoyed standards of living, and, in particular, to the desire of the Australian Government to - 
improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used; 
facilitate adjustment to changes in the economic environment by industries and persons affected by those changes; 
recognize the interests of consumers and consuming industries likely to be affected by, measures proposed by the Commission; 
ensure that any measures for assistance to and development of, industries are integrated with national economic policy as a whole; 
ensure that Australia's trade and protection policies are compatible; and 
provide adequate scope for public scrutiny and evaluation of the basis of the Commission's reports. 
 I want to discuss a matter that is of major importance not only to the security of Australia but to the security of all nations. I refer to the dispute between China and the Soviet Union. In this age of nuclear weapons, no nation can guarantee that it would be unaffected by any war between 2 major nuclear powers. The SinoSoviet dispute was forcibly brought to my notice during a visit I made to China in June of this year as part of a delegation from this Parliament which was led by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  During our visit to China, the delegation had discussions with representatives of the Chinese Government, including one meeting with the Chinese VicePremier,  Mr Li  Hsien-nien. In this discussion I raised with the Chinese Vice-Premier the question of Chinese nuclear testing because, as all honourable members and people in Australia know, the Australian Government is strongly opposed to nuclear testing by any nation, and particularly to atmospheric testing. 
The Chinese Vice-Premier's reply was that the Chinese are prepared to discon tinue their nuclear testing but only in the context of all nations, including the United States of America and the Soviet Union, dismantling their own nuclear arsenals. They believe that they cannot reasonably be expected to stop their nuclear testing while nothing is done to reduce the nuclear capacity of the Soviet Union - which is their next door neighbour and which they believe is threatening their security - and of the United States. Personally, I cannot agree with this point of view of the Chinese Government, and neither does the Australian Government. I do not believe that one can justify developing nuclear weapons just because the United States, and the Soviet Union already have nuclear weapons. If this argument were to be used to justify the Chinese developing their own nuclear weapons, then the same argument could be used for every other country doing the same. For that reason I believe that the Australian Government will continue to oppose nuclear testing, whether it is by China, by France or by any other country. 
However, I do not believe we should stop there. It is essential that all the middle and small powers should jointly try to bring about complete nuclear disarmament, because this is the only way to ensure world peace. I do not want to say who is right and who is wrong in the Sino-Soviet dispute. The plain fact is that these 2 countries are suspicious of each other and distrust each other, and it is in the interests of all countries that this mutual suspicion and hostility be reduced. The overwhelming impression given to our parliamentary delegation in China, as far as the foreign policy of the Chinese is concerned, was that their great fear is of the Soviet Union. The Chinese maintain that the Russians are bent on a policy of territorial expansion. They say that unequal treaties were imposed on China in the nineteenth century - that is, treaties between czarist Russia and imperialist China. In fact, they maintain that the Soviet Union is demanding territory beyond even that which was conceded to it under these unequal treaties. The Chinese also claim that the Soviet Union has maintained and does maintain one million troops on the Sino-Soviet border to enforce its claims on what it believes is Chinese territory. Moreover, the Chinese say that their suggestions for a mutual withdrawal of troops from either side of the disputed border have been rejected. I repeat that I am not saying whether the Chinese point of view is justified or not. Frankly, I do not see any point in the Australian Government taking sides on this issue. The fact is, however, that there is a dispute which we would like to see ended, in our own interests. 
There are some very important measures which should be taken to reduce tension in this area. The first concerns the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks, more commonly known as the SALT talks. These talks are supposed to be about arms limitation - that is, disarmiment Yet I wonder how many people realise that at the most recent round of SALT talks the United States and the Soviet Union mutually agreed on the Soviet Union increasing its numbers of intercontinental ballistic missiles, or ICBMs. The Americans agreed to this on the ground that they themselves have a superiority in multiple independently-targeted re-entry vehicles, or MIRVs. In other words, the agreement does not concern disarmament at all. It is merely about balance of terror. If this agreement were being carried out in a vacuum, I suppose it could be justified. But it did not take place in a vacuum. The Soviet Union - one of the 2 parties to the talks - will actually increase its numbers of ICBMs. To the Chinese, this is not a balance of deterrent forces but a gross imbalance. Obviously, that is why the Chinese feel apprehensive about the situation. I believe that it is no longer sufficient for the representatives of the United States and the Soviet Union to make agreements behind closed doors on the size of their nuclear arsenals. 
My first practical suggestion, therefore, is that the SALT talks which are at present bipartite should be tri-partite 'and should include China, so that all decisions taken will have regard to the fact that the interests of more than 2 great powers are involved. Better still, they should be multi-partite and include all countries which have nuclear weapons. Obviously, this would not be the answer to all our problems, but it would be an important step and would at least establish workable machinery to enable realistic nuclear disarmament talks to take place. The other constructive suggestion I would like to make concerns the Sino-Soviet border dispute. In this area I believe that the Americans should take a greatly different course from that which they have taken so far. Up until now they have spoken to the Russian leaders, as in the Nixon-Brezhnev summit meeting, and this makes the Chinese suspicious. When the Americans speak to the 
Chinese, the Russians become suspicious. I suppose that is just a fact of the multi-polar power situation. One could be pardoned for thinking that the United States is cynically playing off one nation against the other. Is it too much to ask that the United States could, in view of its improving relations with both China and Russia, act as an honest broker in the Sino-Soviet dispute? The settlement could start on a basis of a simultaneous withdrawal of troops to a given distance from either side of the border and arbitration or discussion taking place on where the border should lie. 
The question might be asked: Where does Australia come into this? I believe that Australia, as an ally of the .United States should strongly advocate this course of action directly to the United States. Furthermore, we should press for action of this sort at world forums such as the United Nations. There is no doubt in my mind that the Sino-Soviet dispute is the greatest threat to world peace. The current rapprochement between the United States and the Soviet Union indicates that both these countries wish to avoid a war between them. The detente between the United States and China indicates a similar situation there. I know that there are some people who think we can take a back seat while the 2 great communist powers tear each other apart. I think it is a grossly inhumane attitude to remain indifferent to a situation where hundreds of millions of lives could be lost. Furthermore, we cannot exclude the possibility that Australia could be affected, either from an unanticipated widening of any conflict or from any radiation fallout. There is no doubt what the correct course of action is for Australia. Firstly, we should continue to press for the cessation of nuclear testing by all countries. Secondly, we should press for total nuclear disarmament. As a means of bringing this about, we should press for all nuclear powers to be included as participants in the SALT talks, and jointly we should press for international diplomatic action to bring about a resolution of the Sino-Soviet dispute. 
I ask the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to an advertisement appearing in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' on 6 October 1973 and headed 'Farming opportunity with excellent capital gain potential', in which successful businessmen and companies are invited to subscribe capital of a minimum amount of $600 a year for 12 years to become engaged in the raising of beef cattle in Victoria's western district. 
The 'Medical Journal of Australia' I ask in particular: Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to items suggesting that the advertised project offers total tax deductions per annum of moneys contributed? Is this not an invitation to other than bona fide farmers to gain at the expense of other taxpayers? Is the claim to total tax deductibility accurate? 
I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill, which is a most important innovation in 2 respects. First of all it portends a break from traditional methods of institutional care for mental illness in that money will be provided exclusively for community health services that are of a non-institutional nature. The other important innovation is that it will be taking the problems of alcoholism and drug dependence away from the area of criminal law. This is in accordance with a recommendation of the Senate select committee which inquired into drug trafficking and drug abuse and presented its report  2i  years ago. I regret that no action was taken by the previous Government to implement the Committee's proposals. In its recommendations under the heading 'Penalties' the Committee stated:   the futility of imprisoning the truly drug dependent person should be recognised and that every facility for his medical rehabilitation be afforded; only in extreme cases should a measure of compulsory treatment be enforced. 
This is one of the most important firsts of the Sax Committee, as it is known, which is the Interim Committee of the national hospitals and health services commission which will become a reality, we expect, in this session of the Parliament. I believe that this very exciting innovation of this Government in setting up that commission will mean that there will be many exciting developments in the field of public health and community health services to follow this measure that we are debating today. 
It is most important that we look at the problem of treating mental illness in institutions. One of the most vivid accounts of the problems of treating mental illness in institutions came from an investigative team which gained admission as patients to psychiatric wards by faking symptoms of mild mental disturbance. This team was led by one  Dr Winkler,  who is a senior lecturer in applied psychology at the University of New South Wales. These people who feigned mental illness went into psychiatric wards to have a look from the inside, to have a look from the public's point of view at what the situation was like in the mental institutions in New South Wales. Their finding was that Australian psychiatric hospitals mistreat the mentally ill and in many cases cannot tell whether a person is normal. In a newspaper article that appeared on 17 April this year  Dr Winkler  is reported as saying: 
In the old days people used to be manacled by chains. Now the high walls and manacles have been replaced by chemical manacles. 
He said: 
We have found that people with mild symptoms are often given heavy medication - and if they refuse it, they are forcibly given an injection. 
That is one point of view and I think the report is probably something of an exaggeration. But there is something in this in that - perhaps it is a problem with the present state of knowledge of psychiatric illness - that there does seem to be an excessive dependence on various types of drugs in treating mental illnesses. There is a paradox in the present situation because on the one hand we are trying to treat people - and a part of this Bill deals with those people - who have a drug dependency, and on the other hand there is treatment going on in certain mental institutions in Australia which to some extent produces problems of drug dependence. So we have this paradoxical situation. 
By the provision of community health services we will be able to provide not just the conventional treatment that is available at the present time in the community, which is mainly private psychiatric treatment by specialists who are practising on a fee for service basis, but also a co-ordinated system of community health care, and thus we will be able to integrate the activities of trained social workers in their counselling activities with all the other conventional measures such as group therapy, occupational therapy, drug therapy and other types of treatment where they may be indicated. I believe that once again in the community health centres themselves - that is, those outside the formal institutions - we have a potential problem in that even they can possibly become excessively dominated by people who are orientated solely towards traditional forms of psychiatry. In many cases this may even cause further problems - for example, if it causes dependence on certain types of medication. 
At this stage I should like to refer to an article in the 'Nation Review' of 3 May of this year by William De Maria who worked in and ran a couple of mental health centres in Sydney. I should like to read a few paragraphs from this article because I think they are important as they indicate how mental health centres should work but how, in some cases, they do not necessarily work as we would like. He wrote: 
In my view, the centre has to be an agent of social change. It has to look at the social circumstances behind the breakdown of the people who come to it, and look seriously and critically. It has to take the necessary steps in co-operation with these people to prevent and control these social factors. 
He believes that at present it is not happening that way in certain of these centres, in New South Wales at least. He goes on to discuss this aspect and states: 
The industry, according to its dominant medical philosophy, has a social contract to segregate, medicate and alienate those who, for a complexity of reasons, have dared to disturb the domestic tranquility. It does not look beyond an accepted and narrow classification of people and it does not look beyond the people who come under this classification. 
We should watch out that this type of attitude towards mental health and mental illness does not permeate Australia. The great problem of the so-called psychiatric industry has been referred to in an extensive report entitled 'The Mental Health Complex' by Ralph Nader. I think we must ensure that there is not an excessive domination of traditional psychiatric techniques in our community mental health services to the exclusion of other factors which should be looked at when somebody comes with a problem. The social circumstances under which problems arise should be considered. 
I believe it is important to note that by this measure money will be allocated for research and evaluation of community health services. If some States are not carrying out the type of research which we believe might be the most productive, the Commonwealth should consider funding its own projects on its own behalf. Among the things that will have to be looked at on the research side is the putting of emphasis on the social background. It is not a question of simply looking at the people who present themselves with mental health problems; we must look at the society that produces such problems. This aspect has been mentioned by previous speakers. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  said that often these people, through no fault of their own, present themselves with problems because they are victims of what he called - and I agree entirely with him - a materialistic society. This is just as much a political and philosophical question as it is a medical question. It is my belief that the incidence of mental illness is lower in socialist societies. When I visited China recently with a parliamentary delegation I had some discussion with the Chinese public health officials. It is my belief that an outlook which is far less materialistic in a country like China conduces much less to mental illness than the materialistic, acquisitive society in which we live. 
Another aspect at which we should look is the avoidance of excessive formality in our community mental health services. The Minister referred to this in his second reading speech when he said that he did not want them to be starch fronted. I should like now to quote from a report from a body called Youth Line* in South Australia. It runs a telephone counselling service and is seeking to extend its activities into other areas by providing counselling and discussion centres. In referring to some of the traditional services, that organisation in its report said: 
However, through our contact with young people through Youth Line's telephone counselling service, we have become aware of the wide range of concrete needs which traditional services are not meeting within the limitations of their present structures - rigid appointment systems; day services only; the requirement that the young person is 'motivated' to receive 'help' as defined by the agency - and which cannot be met within the parameters of a telephone counselling service. 
It is suggested that we should avoid, as far as possible, having rigid, institutionalised services. This applies particularly in the treatment of drug dependency problems with younger people in the community. Another suggestion in the Youth Line report was that 'volunteer workers are actually more effective resource people than professionals who have become limited by their roles, which are often defined by the agency for which they work'. I do not know that there is necessarily any advantage in volunteer workers but I think that sometimes there could be. It is not necessary to have professional personnel working in this field. I think they are sometimes restrained by prejudices which arise from their conditioning during their years of formal tertiary education. 
One area in particular in this report to which I think we ought to give special consideration is the provision of evening clinics for community health centres because at present there are no real such facilities. It is a practice in the United Kingdom to provide centres of an informal nature which people can attend in the evenings. I am pleased to note that after 1974-75 mental health and related services will be integrated with the total community health care program. It is important also to note that in this respect the introduction of the Government's national health insurance plan will play a very important role. From the national health insurance income - from the total cake - the Government will enable these community mental health organisations and other community health services to contract with the fund for a certain amount to be paid to provide these types of services. This is a very important matter and it is one other reason why it is absolutely fundamental for the Government to introduce its national health insurance plan. It is not just a question of finance and economics. It is a question of being able to fund, on a equitable basis, the best type of health services that we can get. 
Under the present voluntary health scheme it is impossible to fund any services of the type we are debating today because the funds can only pay money for private psychiatric services which are given on a fee for service basis. Under the health insurance plan which the Government seeks to introduce, organisations such as community health centres and mental health centres can contract for a grant to operate a total plan of mental health care. This, of course, will mean a reduced cost of community health centres because these types of bodies can place a heavy emphasis on the preventive aspects whereas the present management for the treatment of mental illness pre.dictates too heavily towards the very problems we are trying to treat, namely, the problems of drug ingestion which in their wake bring other problems of habituation and drug induced disease. 
There must be a special place for voluntary agencies. I am thinking particularly of the problems of drug dependency with young people - those who are addicted to the so-called hard drugs, particularly heroin. At present we are depending too much on the formal government agencies. Many drug addicts are frightened to go to these agencies because they fear that they will be thrown into gaol, and that their supply will be withdrawn from them and they will be faced with an acute abstinence syndrome. 
Even in my own State of South Australia there appears to be a lack of awareness on the part of the government authorities who are responsible for this area about the incidence of heroin addiction. We should look at why people might be frightened to go to such agencies. I think honourable members would agree that this is one area where encouragement and support should be given to voluntary organisations so that addicts who want treatment - there are many who do want treatment - will not be frightened to seek advice and get the treatment they need. Although I do not think that it is actually a voluntary organisation I should like to refer to a nongovernment organisation which acts in New South Wales and is run by  Dr Stella  Dalton, whom the Minister for Health was good enough to bring along to meet the Government member's Health Committee. She is running a program for the treatment with methadone of heroin addicts in Sydney. Without actually going into the mechanics of this treatment, virtually what happens is that methadone is given to these people in large doses, and this prevents them from getting any tangible or noticeable effect from heroin. The result is that they can be weaned completely off heroin for an indefinite period as long as they continue to take methadone. 
I know that there are problems with this treatment. It is said that it is replacing one addiction with another. But there are important differences. If the addicts know that they can get their supply they will not turn to crime or drug pushing to get their supply of drugs. There arc 2 further important points about the treatment. One of the things that is most important in the methadone program in Sydney is that the people taking methadone now survive. If one took a cross section of heroin addicts one would find that after any 2-year period of addiction 25 per cent of them are dead. One point about the methadone program is that it has been found that all the people being treated are still alive after 2 years of treatment. This is a tremendously significant factor. 
The other point is that a person addicted to methadone, unlike one addicted to heroin, can at least lead a normal life and pursue a job and try to find some sort of meaningful existence. I understand from  Dr Dalton  that this program has the imprimatur of the New South Wales Government. I should like to look further at this program because if it is as good as it is claimed to be I think that we should consider extending it to other States in Australia. Of course this is only one aspect of our drug dependency problems. Heroin addiction, although it is a very serious problem, is only a very small part of the overall drug addiction problem. The most serious drug problems in our community arise from the much more widely used drugs such as barbiturates, aspirin and alcohol. I believe that in this area it is very important that we provide the necessary community services for the treatment and rehabilitation of people who are addicted to these drugs. 
However, I might just mention to the Minister that I believe that it is not just a question of providing rehabilitative treatment to the people in these centres, but I think that there are certain other political actions we can take to try to overcome this problem. For example, in the case of aspirin, I cannot see any reason why we should permit the continuation of the advertising of aspirin in the media. I also cannot see why we should allow aspirin to be peddled in supermarkets. I believe that if its sale were confined to pharmacies, at least then there would be a person selling the drug who could tell a person who keeps coming to buy aspirin preparations that aspirin tablets are not lollies and that taken over a long period of time aspirin can cause serious problems. I also think that we should take certain political action in regard to barbiturates. When I was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits I recommended to the Committee - it was not adopted by the majority - that there is very little place for the prescription of barbiturates and that they should not be prescribed except in certain circumstances such as the treatment of epilepsy or in general anaesthesia. I really think that we ought to consider preventing the prescription of barbiturates. 
I also agree with the statement made previously by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  about the advertising of alcoholic preparations. It seems to me a little paradoxical that we should be allowing this to take place. This comment also applies to other things we are doing, such as expressing great concern if anything happens to affect sales in the wine industry or any other similar industry. 
I want to raise an extremely serious matter - the action taken last night in the Senate by the Opposition in that chamber in opposing the Lands Acquisition (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1973. This action by the Liberal-Country Party and Democratic Labor Party Opposition in rejecting this Bill is contrary to all principles previously upheld for the development of the Australian Capital Territory. For the benefit of those honourable members who are not familiar with the story I point out that it was an established principle, even at the time when the Parliament selected the Australian Capital Territory for the seat of government, that the development of the national capital would be undertaken by government and managed under a leasehold system. The rural freeholders in the Territory were not intended to profit from values created by the potential for urban development arising from national investment in Canberra. 
In accordance with this principle, when land in Canberra was first purchased by the Commonwealth Government back in 1908 the freeholders - that is, the land owners - were paid $7 per acre. Ever since that time the principle has been maintained that any increase in capital value of the land arising from urban potential would accrue to the community as a whole. Any suggestion that freeholders should benefit from such increased value or that residents of Canberra's future new towns should be forced to meet resulting exorbitant costs for leases was totally opposed to views previously endorsed by successive Parliaments. 
In December 1970 the Gorton Government made a decision to purchase all remaining land in the Australian Capital Territory which was still held under freehold. One such property affected by this decision was the property known as 'Lanyon'. This is a 9,442 acre property which the Government intends to develop as a site for the satellite city of Tuggeranong. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government offered the owner of the property $ 1.875m. As had been the previous practice, this valuation was based on a valuation of surrounding rural land. It was a reasonable expectation, for 2 reasons, that this offer of $ 1.875m would be accepted: Firstly, because of all similar precedents and, secondly, because the Lands Acquisition Act states that regard shall not be had to any increase in the value of land arising from any proposal to carry out the public purpose for which the land was required. In other words, if the increased land value was due to the Government's intention to subdivide it or for any other reason, that consideration must be disregarded in determining the price paid to the land owner. However, arising out of this acquisition Lanyon Pty Limited lodged a claim for $35m based on the urban potential of the land. Furthermore, it has contested the Government's offer, saying that the company itself could be the developer and could get the increased value of the land by subdividing and developing it. If the land owner is successful in its legal action this will completely contradict the spirit of the development of Canberra as has been followed by all governments and parliaments. 
The Government introduced the Bill in the Senate to put the issue beyond doubt. However, the incredible decision of the Opposition parties in the Senate was to reject this Bill. What members of the Senate Opposition are saying is that if the court decides that the taxpayer must pay the landowner $35m for his farm, that is all right by them. This is a decision that I find utterly indefensible. Land in the Australian Capital Territory has urban potential, solely because of a decision taken many years ago about where the national capital should be developed. The increased land value is in no way due to anything the freeholder has done to that land. To suggest that the taxpayer should be expected to fork out anything up to $35m is utterly iniquitous and it is hard to imagine bow such wickedness can happen and in such a blatant manner. 
I repeat that this action by the Senate Liberal and Country Parties is completely contrary to their policies when they were in government. When they acquired the land they made an offer to purchase the land at rural prices exactly as all land previously bought in Canberra was acquired at rural prices. Not only that, but it is substantially different from the attitude of the Liberal Party in South Australia. When the South Australian Government made a decision to freeze land prices at rural values for the development of the new city of Monarto the Liberal Opposition in that State did not oppose that measure. I think we must bear in mind that if the court decides that the capital gain should accrue to the owner of Lanyon' that will not be the end of it. There are many other outstanding claims for land being purchased by the Government in Canberra. This could mean that the taxpayer could be up for anything up to $100m. 
What extraordinary action by the Senate Opposition. Here they are telling us that we must treduce government spending and yet at the same time they are saying the Government will have to pay anything up to $100m as a gift to people whose farms happen to be in a particular location. Here is the Government trying to do what it can to stabilize land prices so that the average family can purchase a home at reasonable cost and the Opposition parties are doing their best to sabotage the Government's actions. If we are to be frustrated in bringing about a just scheme for land acquisition for the Australian Capital Territory what chance have we got in trying to control the problem in the States? 
I would like to suggest two things to the Government: I suggest that if the Government has to pay for the cost of the land at subdivided prices further development of Tuggeranong should be deferred until the Senate changes it attitude. If the Senate will not change its vote, the Senate which is elected next year will do so. Let the Liberal and Country Party senators and the DLP senators go to the people at the next Senate election and tell them that they favour up to $100m of taxpayers moneys being donated to privileged individuals. 
The other thing I want to suggest to the Government is some sort of inquiry to try to determine what type of influence has been brought to bear on the Opposition senators that they should make this extraordinary decision in conflict with their previous policies. This is just one further example of how the various conservative parties in Australia operate. When it comes to a conflict of interests between ordinary Australians and the privileged few it always has to be the ordinary Australian who has to take second place. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice: 
What directives issued to the States on the planning and operation of school dental clinics have been based on (a) the discussions and report of the Conference held on 8 and 9 March 1973 attended by representatives of the Australian Government, the Territories and the States and (b) the recommendations of the Australian Dental Services Advisory Committee. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government issued directives to the States concerning the ratio of dental therapists to patients in school dental clinics. 
If so, have these directives been issued pursuant to recommendations of the Dental Services Advisory Committee; if not, what are the bases of the directives. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can he state what assistance is being given by the Australian Government to the starving drought victims in Ethiopia? Will he give an assurance that Australia will give assistance to the maximum and as quickly as possible? Will special consideration be give to providing assistance in the form of animal protein and vitamin and iron supplements? 
There are a couple of matters I would like to raise briefly in reply to some matters raised by members of the Opposition. One would think from the speeches of some members of the Opposition that their record in Government over 23 years was absolutely exemplary. No one would have thought from the speeches they have made that, for instance, there had been a drop in the amount of money spent on housing in successive Commonwealth Budgets brought down by Liberal-Country Party governments. It is worth having a look at the figures. In the 1954-55 Budget funds allocated to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement made up 2.68 per cent of the total Government expenditure. But by 1971-72 the proportion of money spent on government housing out of the Commonwealth Budget had fallen to 1.8 per cent. That is the record of the previous Government. 
What else was the record of the previous Government? When the Labor Government came to office it found that there were 93,000 people throughout Australia on the waiting lists for housing commission homes. No one would think from listening to the speeches of members of the Opposition in this debate that there had been any increase at all in the allocation of money for housing by the present Government. It is worth having a look at the figures. The amount originally allocated last year by the States of their own choice to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was $ 166.9m. In actual fact, in modification of that, the total allocation was even less. The amount allocated under the first year of the new Agreement will be $2 18m. That represents an increase of 29 per cent. That is what the present Government has done. There has been a very great and very significant increase in the allocation of money under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. That is the record of the present Government. 
I was interested also in the remarks of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who castigated the Government over its policies on rental housing and the ownership of houses. It was quite obvious from the remarks of the honourable member for Ballaarat that he does not even know how the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement works. He informed the chamber - I listened to what he had to say - that only 30 per cent of the money allocated under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement may be used for homes for purchase. The facts of the matter are that 30 per cent of the funds made available under the Commonwealth-State 
Housing Agreement go to what is called the Home Builders Account. I should think that probably 124 members of this House would know what the Home Builders Account is. The honourable member for Ballaarat, in one of his rare contributions to debates in this chamber, made it quite plain that he does not know what it is. The money that is made available to the Home Builders Account - the 30 per cent - is for houses for purchase. It is to the remaining 70 per cent that the 30 per cent to which he might have been referring applies. In fact it is not as though only 30 per cent of the money will be available for houses for purchase; 30 per cent goes to the Home Builders Account for houses for purchase and 30 per cent of the remaining 70 per cent also is provided for houses for purchase. I think this ought to be made quite clear. It is just pitiful to see how ignorant some people can be about this most important and significant item of expenditure under the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement. 
I cannot quite understand how honourable members opposite do not seem to have any concern for the person who, for one reason or another, rents a home. We saw what happened a couple of years ago with the Premier of New South Wales when, at that time, the stock of rental housing in that State was dwindling pitifully. ' Some of the traditionally working class homes in the inner suburbs of Sydney were being sold. What happens is that developers go along and persuade the tenant of a house to buy his house and they say they then will buy the house from him at a profit. The developer redevelops the land and makes a substantial cop for himself. The result of this is that the area is redeveloped and that housing traditionally used by a lot of inner city workers is lost forever. Many of these people have to be displaced to the outer suburbs from where they must travel long distances to their work. This is the situation of which  Mr Bourke,  the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Housing Commission was and is very well aware. I heard him speak publicly on this point on one occasion and for his pains he was chastised by the Premier of New South Wales. Now, of course, the New South Wales Housing Commission is fully in agreement with the very progressive policy of the present Australian Minister for Housing who has placed very heavy emphasis on his policy, under the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, of retaining an adequate stock of rental housing. 1 want to add just one more point, because I do not want to detain the Committee for much longer. I should like to reiterate to this Government the suggestion which I have made on a previous occasion. I refer to action which I believe ought to be taken to try to do something about escalating land prices. I suppose no one can claim to have a panacea to this problem and many different solutions have been tried in the past. However, I advocate that we give strong consideration to implementing a capital gains tax on the unearned increment in land values. This should be a capital gains tax with a difference in that we should tax that capital gain whether or not it is realised. This tax should be applied to land which has not been built on, so that if somebody buys a block of land and its value increases by 100 per cent, I believe that capital gain, after making some allowance for inflation, should be taxed if that property has not been developed. Even if the property has not been sold, the tax should be levied. I believe this would have the important effect, like any assets tax, of providing an incentive for the person who holds that land to sell the land forthwith if he is not going to develop it himself. This might provide a real measure of assistance in increasing the supply of land available for housing. One of the situations which could be expected to occur under such a scheme is that the Government, having put a valuation on a block of land, would say to  Mr X:  'Your property has increased in value by 80 per cent', and  Mr X  could then say: 'I do not want to pay the tax on that amount of capital gain because I think the increase in value of the land is only 20 per cent'. We could easily settle that difference by the land commission offering to buy the land from  Mr X  at his price with a capital gain of 20 per cent. This would be a very good way of increasing the supply of land for housing. I have mentioned this in the House before and, once again, I ask the Government to give consideration to my proposal because I believe that the most important thing we must do to make more housing available for the people of Australia is to do our utmost to ensure that land prices cease rising at a faster rate than are wages. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns the reported proposals of the Japanese Government to reduce industrial output in response to the cutback of oil from the Middle East. Could these measures result in an economic recession in Japan? Could a Japanese economic recession be almost as unfavourable for Australia as for Japan itself? Will the Prime Minister initiate an urgent inquiry into the effects of the proposed Japanese economic measures on Australia? Could this inquiry also include discussions with the Japanese Government on a co-ordinated plan to cushion the effects on Australia of the oil embargo to Japan? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Overseas Trade been drawn to reports that the Redcliffs development in South Australia is under threat because of the inability of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to participate as a member of the proposed consortium? Would the proposed participation of AIDC ensure that the development would proceed with a high proportion of Australian ownership? Conversely, would Senate opposition to the AIDC Bill threaten this important South Australian development as planned? 
I rise briefly to support the 4 Bills now before the House. May I comment first on some of the remarks made earlier by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)?  The honourable member used the occasion of this debate on legislation proposing to establish urban growth centres and land commissions and to provide funds for the State governments to establish their land commissions, to attack the Australian Government for its withdrawal of certain tax concessions and subsidies to the rural community. He said that this action would adversely affect the level of population in the Australian country districts. 
The first thing which ought to be said about the honourable member's remarks is that the measures that we are considering today are an acknowledgement of the fact that the urban population of Australia will increase, whatever may happen in other respects. Irrespective of the prosperity or otherwise of the countryside, the urban population in Australia will increase. Our aim is to ensure by these measures that that urban population will not all be concentrated in the 6 capital cities. We wish to try to avoid our cities acquiring excessive size, and to establish new regional growth centres. This action, therefore, has nothing to do with the size of the rural population in our various country towns and villages. That is a separate matter. 
Nevertheless, the honourable member for Gwydir did raise a couple of points which I wish to rebut. He said that the withdrawal of certain subsidies and tax concessions would be damaging to the rural community. The fact is that the loss of income which the rural community may have suffered as a result of the withdrawal of these concessions and subsidies has very much more than been offset by the boom in commodity prices in the rural sector. As much or more money is available for re-investment and expansion in the rural sector from the return on present prices for rural commodities as would have been available if no increase had occurred in those prices and had we retained all the subsidies, tax concessions and the plethora of other benefits which were provided by the Country Party for 23 years on behalf of the sectional interests for which it operated. 
We believe that the specific problems faced in country areas must be overcome by measures designed to help directly those in country areas who suffer definite need. These problems cannot be overcome by a blanket measure such as tax concessions or subsidies because such action benefits selectively the better off people in the rural community who do not face the problem of rural poverty. Rural poverty should be treated as a social welfare problem. People suffering rural poverty should be treated by social welfare measures designed selectively to help those people who are most in need. 
Of the 4 Bills now before the House, the one on which I wish to speak primarily is the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to provide land for housing purposes at as low a cost as possible to families which want to buy houses. This is a very good exercise in co-operation between the Commonwealth and the State governments. The concept is that this money will be provided by the Commonwealth to assist the State governments to purchase land prior to the development of that land. First by the provision of cheap land and secondly by planned development we will be enabled to make land available as cheaply as is possible and to develop it as efficiently as is possible. Of course, this proposal contains nothing new. This is the system that has operated in the Australian Capital Territory for many years. Unfortunately, judging by its attitude recently to the acquisition of land in Canberra, it looks as if the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in the Senate wants to depart from this principle. By and large, the idea of the Crown acquiring land and developing it as cheaply as possible for home purchasers has been adhered to by governments of all political complexions ever since 1908. 
The honourable member for Gwydir suggested that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government should take the credit for these measures because it established the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. It should be pointed out that it did so in the dying weeks of its term of office. In actual fact the credit should rightly go to the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  because of his attention to and preoccupation with the problems of the cities for several years. In 1970 I suggested to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who was then the Prime Minister, that the benefits which flow to the. people of the Australian Capital Territory from the acquisition by the Crown of land at rural prices and its subdivision and development at low cost perhaps ought to be passed on to the people in the States. That suggestion fell on deaf ears. It was only quite recently that the Liberal Party of Australia saw the error of its ways previously. It now agrees that measures which have applied for many years in the Australian Capital Territory are also appropriate to the rest of Australia. As a result of that and as a result of the initiatives taken by the present Government, negotiations have been conducted between the Australian Government and the governments of New South Wales and Victoria about the acquisition of land for the development of Albury-Wodonga as a growth centre. 
That land will be acquired at prices which obtained on 1 October 1972 and in accordance with the principle that there is no justification for the Crown's paying urban prices to a farmer for his broad acres. That is a principle to which the Australian Labor Party holds very dearly. I am glad to see that the governments of New South Wales and Victoria have gone along with it in the case of the AlburyWodonga project. The same principle is applied in South Australia. Land prices in the new city of Monarto in South Australia have been set at a certain value. An allowance has been made for some increase because of inflation but, by and large, the price at which land will be acquired at Monarto will be the same as the price which obtained at a particular date. So it is quite a simple proposal. 
Unfortunately the track record of the Liberal Party on this question is a rather mixed one. I have mentioned what happened in 1970 when I made certain suggestions to the then Prime Minister about' Canberra. We have had the episode in recent weeks of the acquisition of 'Lanyon' station for the development of the satellite city of Tuggeranong. In the case of that acquisition the present Government has sought to uphold the views of the previous Minister for the Interior, the present honourable member for Gwydir, that the proprietors of 'Lanyon' station should be paid at rural prices for their broad acres. That would involve the payment of an amount of SI. 875m However, the price has been contested by the owners of that property, who have put in a bill of $35m - if you do not mind - for their property. Not surprisingly the present Government, in the interests of the taxpayers of Australia, wishes to avoid having to pay that if possible. For some reason the LiberalCountry Party Opposition in the Senate has frustrated such a move. If it gets its way the taxpayers of Australia will be up for a considerable amount of money. 
The record of the Liberal Opposition in South Australia is, unfortunately, even worse than it is in this Parliament. I am sad to say that the Liberal Opposition in the South Australian Parliament even opposed the establishment of a land commission in that State. The measure that got through the Legislative Council was, unfortunately, considerably emasculated. One of the most unfortunate features of the provisions introduced into the legislation by the Legislative Council in South Australia was the provision that a person to whom the Land Commission applies to acquire land has 3 months in which to submit plans for his subdivision of the land and if he can develop the land himself within 2 years he will get the unearned increment. A farmer who is in cohorts with a private land developer can make a capital gain, instead of the Crown. We believe that there should be no unearned increment; the savings should be passed on to the person who purchased the land so that the cost of providing a house for his family will be lower. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  spoke about the question of leasehold land. It is not suggested under any of these measures that the States must provide land on a leasehold basis, but for the life of me I cannot understand the obsessional fear which the Opposition has to the leasehold system. After all it is the system which has operated for some years and which still operates - admittedly in a prostituted form - in the Australian Capital Territory. There is no difference between leasehold land and freehold land as far as the security of tenure of the property built on it is concerned. If a person has a house in his name and the title to the land in his name his security of tenure to his house is the same irrespective of whether he holds the land in fee simple or leasehold. Just because one holds land in fee simple would not stop a highways authority or any other public authority from serving a notice to treat, which would enable it compulsorily to acquire the land. For that reason I find it most difficult to understand why the conservative parties have an obsessional fear about the leasehold system. 
The object of the Lands Commission (Financial Assistance) Bill is, by various means, to enable land to be provided cheaply to people for housing purposes. I have already mentioned that such land will be purchased at rural prices and that the person who owns the broad acres will not be able to make a capital gain from a decision made by the Government to develop that land. Another way in which land prices can be controlled is by the controlling of the resale price of the land. It is no use paying rural values for land and passing it on to a person for the construction of a house upon it if that person is allowed to capitalise on the benefit afforded to him by reselling the house on the open market, particularly if the open market value is very much higher than the value at which he purchased the land and house. In my  view  the best way of overcoming this is the leasehold system. But there are alternatives. 
One of the alternatives - I believe it was suggested to the committee of inquiry being conducted by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell - is a system of restricted freehold, which would to some extent curtail the ability of a person who obtains land cheaply to capitalise upon its resale. Another method by which the lands commissions in the various States would be able to control land prices is by making land freely available and not withholding certain blocks from the market, which is a common practice with private developers. That is perhaps one of the most serious problems. Unquestionably there has been a shortage of serviced land for housing purposes in recent years. One of the reasons has been the predilection shown by private developers towards withholding land from the market. The land commissions can overcome that by acting in the public interest; that is a term which I do not like very much, but I have used it in this case. The land commissions, also could make sufficient land available to ensure that land prices do not become excessive. 
Another method is the development of land on a planned basis. That will be the most important sphere of activity of the South Australian Land Commission in the metropolitan area of Adelaide. Most of the rezoning has already taken place in the Adelaide metropolitan area. The private developers have already taken the cream and have developed the best, most easily serviced areas themselves. What remains is an area that will require maximum efficiency in its development. This is something that can only be done on a coordinated basis by the Crown, by the Land Commission, acting in co-ordination with the other authorities which provide services, such as the Engineering and Water Supply Department, the Postmaster-General's Department, the Electricity Trust and all the rest. The idea will be that the activities of the Land Commission in the Adelaide metropolitan area will be to plan the development of the parts of metropolitan Adelaide which have not yet been developed. 
I think I should go back to the basic premise as to why land is becoming more expensive, particularly on the outskirts of Australian capital cities. The reason is the sustained demand for land on the outskirts of the cities, and the fundamental factor here is proximity to employment. As the cities get bigger it becomes more costly and more uneconomic to provide serviced land on the outskirts of the cities, but it is still required because that is where the jobs are. We can overcome the problem of the high cost of providing serviced blocks by building our regional growth centres, but they will not be of any use to anybody unless there is sufficient employment there. We must decentralise employment opportunities as much as we can by either providing them in the growth centres or providing the means of commuting between the growth centres and the capital cities. 
I would not agree with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that Government employment is not a suitable basis for establishing a growth centre. I think government and particularly tertiary institutions are a basis. Finally, in reply to the remark of the honourable member for Farrer in relation to Albury, I point out that the Australian Universities Commission has made a decision and has nominated Albury as the site for a university. I have much pleasure in supporting the 4 measures before the House. 
My question, which concerns grants to the States for education, is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Would the retention of per capita grants to non-government schools require in addition to the Government's proposed expenditure an extra expenditure of Si 14m over 2 years? If the Government were required to find this money would it be found primarily by printing money or by raising taxation? If paper money were printed for the purpose, would it be possible to arrange to have the picture of the honourable member for Wannon included in the watermark to remind the bearer that it was truly funny money? 
I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on the excellent job he has done in bringing forward this great reform which will be of lasting benefit to all Australians. We are now at the culmination of a long campaign of both publicising the health insurance program and refining it to provide the best possible services in Australia. 
I was saying that this marks the culmination of a long campaign on the part of the Government and its supporters. (Quorum formed). Unfortunately the present time marks the culmination of another campaign, a campaign mounted by certain well organised pressure groups with a vested interest in the present scheme. This minority has been able to mobilise vast amounts of money to run a propaganda campaign to try to win the support of the otherwise uncommitted people in the community. It is a pity that the low income earners and those who will be the main beneficiaries of our proposals cannot run a campaign themselves, but they unfortunately are not politically organised and of course they are in no position to finance an expensive radio and television campaign. It is a sad fact that this happens with any great social reform; the main beneficiaries are poorly organised. Thus the propaganda campaign by default is won by the well organised groups with a vested interest in the status quo. However, I believe that the Minister should take heart in the justice of his cause. 
Every great social reform will by definition have a powerful campaign organised against it by vested interests. If this were not so it would not be a great social reform and would have occurred quite naturally long ago. What does sadden me is to see the political opposition in this Parliament not only lining up with these vested interests but also receiving riding instructions from them. Nowhere is this more obvious than in the present debate. Quite clearly the Opposition is not speaking for the Australian public; it is prostituting itself by acting as a front for certain pressure groups. I want to make some remarks about hospital services. 
I agree with the remarks of my friend, the honourable member for Adelaide. It is often said by opponents of the Government's proposals that private hospitalisation should be available for those who prefer to insure for it, but that for those who cannot afford it public hospital treatment should be available. What I object to about this proposition is that it implies two standards of service. It means private hospital treatment, which is allegedly better treatment, for those who can afford it and the allegedly inferior public hospitals for those who cannot. I think this is utterly iniquitous. It is wrong that the best hospital treatment should be available only for the better off. If private practice, fee for service, is the best type of hospital treatment it should be available to everybody, not just to those who can afford it. In fact, proper public hospital treatment is superior. In any case, it would be unacceptable to have every hospital patient in Australia a private patient. This proposition would mean an enormous cost and would divert expenditure of public money from more important areas of health care. The answer must be to provide adequate public hospital accommodation without charge and without means test for every Australian who wants it, and that should be a funda mental right. That is the objective of the Govvernment's proposals. These proposals, in addition to providing more public hospital accommodation will enable public hospitals to be upgraded so as to provide the best treatment possible for all Australians. 
What this measure will mean will be the ready availability of public hospital accommodation free of charge and free of means test to everybody who wants it. That is precisely what has been provided in Queensland for many years. I am aware of statements that have been made that we would be unable to provide sufficient public hospital accommodation for everybody who wants it. The fact is that it is this present scheme which fails to provide adequate public hospital accommodation. In the past the Commonwealth has provided insufficient funds to have enough public hospital beds. The result has been, particularly in my own State of South Australia, a shortage of public hospital beds. I repeat that this is under the present scheme. Although there is no means test in South Australian public hospitals, most South Australians know that under the present scheme they have no hope of getting a public hospital bed except for emergency illnesses. The result is that most South Australians are forced to take private hospital insurance whether they want it or not and whether they can afford it or not. 
The Government's proposals will change all this. It is fundamental to our proposals that sufficient finance will be provided to the State governments to enable them to provide free public hospital accommodation to everybody who wants it. Those who cannot afford private hospital treatment or have no special wish for private hospital treatment will no longer be forced to take out extra insurance to cover the cost of private hospital treatment. It is worth mentioning here, however, that the low income earners will now find it cheaper to take out that extra private hospital insurance, if they want it, than under the present scheme. Of course, it is obvious that with the relatively low number of public hospitals in South Australia we could not overnight provide all the required accommodation in public hospitals. But this does not stop arrangements being made with non-public hospitals such as the community hospitals and religious hospitals to provide the necessary hospital accommodation, and arrangements are being made to do precisely that. Furthermore, the extra money being provided for public hospitals will enable public hospital facilities not only to be extended but also to be improved. I am aware that many people choose private hospitalisation so they can choose the doctor who treats them. We recognise this wish on the part of many patients and substantial assistance will be provided towards private hospital treatment. 
However, on the question of choice of doctor I would like to digress briefly. It is quite obvious in these days when many doctors practice in the one clinic that the choice of doctor by the patient is illusionary. As often as not that choice is made by someone other than the patient. In the case of choice of specialist this decision is rarely made by the patient; it is nearly always made by the referring doctor. But I do not think this matters very much. Let us remember that repatriation patients do not have a choice of specialist when they go into the repatriation hospital. Yet how often has anyone ever heard a repatriation patient complain about this? I certainly never have. I cannot, in my experience as a medical practitioner or a member of Parliament, recall a repatriation patient ever saying that he did not like the repatriation system because there was no choice of specialist in repatriation hospitals. I think perhaps Opposition members could ask the Returned Services League what it would think about making any alteration to the system now operating in repatriation hospitals. 
Personally I would strongly rebut the basic premise which is made by many Opposition spokesmen, and even some spokesmen for the medical profession, that the personal doctor-patient relationship is the most important thing in medical practice. This is no longer true. Important it may be, but there are more important considerations. I know that many patients feel they obtain a subjective benefit from a close relationship with their doctor, but there is no objective evidence that this has any significant influence on a patient's well-being. The aims of the health service are to prevent and to cure illness. I would go so far as to say that many of the traditions in medical practice run quite counter to community health. For example, excessive attention to the doctor-patient relationship has led, I believe, to treatment of problems which may be psycho-social rather than medical, such treatment being by completely inappropriate means by doctors who do not have training in social welfare counselling. As I have said in this House before, one result of this has been excessive recourse to drug therapy, especially the anti-depressive drugs and tranquillisers. What is needed is an integrated health care program by a health team with adequate facilities and adequate recording systems. To put the choice of doctor above these priorities is to turn the clock back. 
To return to the measures before the House, we acknowledge nevertheless that some patients like to choose the doctor who will treat them in hospital. One of the measures the Government is taking in this direction is to expand the range of choice for public patients. This will be especially so in midwifery cases. What we propose is that a woman will be able to attend her general practitioner at his surgery during pregnancy and be attended, if she wishes, by the same doctor as a public patient during confinement. In other words, the scheme will provide for full cover for women who want their own general practitioner to attend them in hospital. For those patients who still want private hospital treatment, we will be providing considerable financial assistance in 3 forms - firstly, a daily bed subsidy of $16; secondly, coverage of medical costs; and thirdly, tax deductibility of private insurance charges. 
Finally, I would like to mention the great benefits which pensioners will receive from the Government's proposals. As all pensioners know, their pensioner medical service card entitles them to free treatment from their general practitioner but not from specialists. From now on under the Government's proposals the pensioner will be eligible to receive treatment not only from the general practitioner but also from a specialist. In other words, if the general practitioner refers pensioners to a specialist for consultation, for management, for a cardiogram or for any other investigation such as an X-ray, a blood test or a urine test, they will be covered in the same way as insured patients are already covered. 
Furthermore, there will be great benefits in the provision of hospital services for pensioners. Under the present scheme pensioners are entitled only to free treatment by public hospitals. However, because of the shortage of public hospital beds many pensioners take out extra private hospital insurance because they fear that if they have a non-urgent illness they will never get into a public hospital. Because we propose to provide sufficient public hospital accommodation for those who want it, pensioners will no longer have to take out that private hospital insurance. This again brings up the question of those pensioners who still want treatment from a particular doctor in hospital. If in spite of the extra public hospital accommodation available pensioners still prefer to have private hospital treatment it will be much easier for them from now on. For one thing they will be covered for specialist treatment in private hospital, whereas under the present scheme the pensoiner medical service voucher is only for a visit by a general practitioner. 
The next important feature of this service is that pensioners who are now eligible for fringe benefits will not only get all the extended benefits I have mentioned but they will also get them without having to contribute anything at all. Let me summarise the benefits of the new pensioner medical service. Pensioners will be covered for treatment by a general practitioner or a private specialist. They will be eligible for public hospital treatment which will in the future be freely available. They will be eligible for specialist or general practitioner treatment in a private hospital, again without having to make any health insurance contribution whatsover. Therefore, if a pensioner wants to take insurance to provide full private hospital cover he will only need to insure himself for about $15 a day. As pensioners will have to contribute nothing in order to obtain all the other benefits, this small amount of insurance will be their only outlay. In money terms this would mean that a single pensioner would receive all the rights of public hospital treatment and specialist treatment for nothing and he would receive all the rights of private treatment in hospital and outside for an insurance contribution of about 65c a week. I have much pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
In supporting the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill I would like firstly to make a few remarks in reply to the speech of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  I think that he made a very constructive contribution to the debate. In fact, I had to pinch myself to confirm that I was actually listening to a member of the Opposition espousing anything other than the sanctity of the fee for service method of supplying medical services. I thought that the honourable member made a very worthwhile contribution. The honourable member mentioned the provision of health maintenance organisations. I think that this is an area that could bear very close and careful examination in the Australian context because I think that it has a lot to offer. 
I know that this matter is close to the heart of the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee of the national Hospitals and Health Services Commission who, as I understand it, is also to be the  Chairman  of the Commission itself when it is founded. Those of us who read the excellent book written by  Dr Sax  last year know that he has given considerable attention to the provision of health maintenance organisations and how those services have operated in the United States of America. I think that they could well operate profitably and with success in the Australian scene. It is not just cost control that could be applied in the circumstances. There are also many other benefits in this type of arrangement. For instance, there is much greater incentive towards preventive medicine. In addition to the cost control which was mentioned by the honourable member for Isaacs there is a considerable incentive within these organisations towards quality control in the field of evaluating the quality of medical and surgical services that are provided by them. I think that this is something we could do very well in Australia. 
However, I would have to take issue with the honourable member in his claim that the health maintenance organisations would fit into the Australian setting much better under the the existing system of voluntary health insurance. It is my very strong conviction that this type of health maintenance would fit much better into a universal system of health insurance such as that which the Government is seeking to introduce at the present time. Although I know that we have already canvassed that issue in the House today, may I just say in reply to the honourable member for Isaacs that if health maintenance organisations were introduced in the existing context, there would not be a universal arrangement. This is because in a health maintenance organisation the participants must actually contract with the organisation that provides the health service. As is the case under the system we have at the present time individuals virtually must insure themselves with a health insurance organisation. There would be the same problem that exists under the present system if a universal health insurance system were not introduced first. There would be certain elements of people missing out. Very often, such people who miss out are the most needy people. 
This position applies in the United States of America. If a person belongs to a well organised labour union in the United States that insures its members on a capitation system under a health maintenance organisation arrangement, he is in a sound position. But the people who do not have regular work, perhaps some of the less well paid and the less well off members of society, are the ones who tend to miss out under a health maintenance organisation arrangement, just as such people miss out under the present system of health insurance, fee for service, which we have in Australia. What I suggest is that if we introduced a universal health insurance system within Australia, individual organisations could contract with the universal health insurance plan for the provision of a prepaid medical service in certain geographical areas. I think that this is one way that the service could be provided. 
For instance, I think that the sorts of organisations that could provide a prepaid medical scheme after the introduction of a universal health insurance scheme would be some of the health insurance organisations that already exist. They could contract under the national health insurance plan to provide a prepaid system. I think that is one of the areas at which our Hospitals and Health Services Commission could look and which would be of great profit to the people of Australia by providing a better quality health service. Of course, it would not necessarily exclude fee for service operations within Australia. I think that probably the ideal arrangement would be for the 2 systems to operate in parallel. I am aware that both the prepaid scheme and the fee for service scheme have their advantages and their disadvantages. Perhaps to obtain the best of both worlds the 2 schemes should operate in parallel. I think that this is just what would be permitted under the scheme that we were debating in the House earlier today. 
I am a little disappointed with the remarks made by some of the other members of the Opposition on this Bill we are discussing tonight. I think that what should be pointed out is that for the first time an Australian Government will be promoting an actual health policy within Australia. This is a very significant first in Australia. In years past, in the distant past, efforts have been made by the Australian governments such as those made to provide quarantine services or a tuberculosis program. Such programs got up much momentum under the Chifley Government. But in recent times the Commonwealth Government, under successive Liberal-Country Party Administrations, confined itself to subsidising private fee for service medical arrangements. Really all that amounted to was the provision of a systematised flow of money to purchase the services of doctors and hospitals in the open market; there was no effort to organise the provision of health services, no effort to have an overall health care program, and above all no effort to have a preventive health care program. In all the other services for which governments seek responsibility, such as in the fields of education or protection against fire, we have organised resources for the benefit of the community. For goodness sake, I do. not see why we should not do that in the case of health services as well, and this is what we seek to do by. the establishment of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the subject of the measure we have before the House tonight. 
I particularly congratulate the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  not only for getting about his business in establishing this Commission so early but also on his apointment of  Dr Sax  as the  Chairman  of the Commission. I think it will be an excellent appointment and one which I believe has been applauded by everybody of all political colours within Australia. I think it is important that we have this initiative now in Australia actually to try to organise a comprehensive health care policy. I think the first speech I made on health care in this House about 4 years ago was on the subject of having a medical manpower policy. It has always been my view that this should be the prime responsibility of the medical schools at the universities in the various capital cities. Unfortunately the medical schools in all capital cities have neglected that responsibility, and therefore I believe it is the responsibility of the Government. I think one of the major tasks for the Hospitals and Health Services Commission will be to evolve a medical manpower policy. 
I was also a little disappointed that the Opposition seems to think that all the Commission would do would be to establish health centres, overriding the political interests of State governments. That is not so. The charter of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission will be very much wider. It is quite obvious that most Opposition members have not read any of the reports of the Interim Committee on Hospitals and Health services. Obviously very few of them have read the first report giving a general outline of a community health services program to be provided in Australia. It is worth reminding the House that quite recently, in the last couple of weeks, the second report came out from the Committee on the provision of a rehabilitation scheme. So the Committee is very busy already and I think it foreshadows a range of activity which will be very wide and very useful to the community. I disagree with the remarks of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  about the prior importance of the doctor-patient relationship. He apparently believes that the establishment of health centres will somehow undermine the relationship between patients and doctors. 
 I think it is possible to place too much emphasis on the relationship between patients and doctors. We must remember that many of the conditions, perhaps the majority of conditions, for which people go to see doctors these days are psychosomatic in origin, and the type of treatment which has been provided and which has been excessively orientated around this socared doctor-patient relationship has unquestionably resulted in excessive use of drugs, with all the consequent problems of drug habituation and drug induced disease. As a matter of fact, in this context, I was rather interested, after I made a speech on this subject a couple of weeks ago in the House, to receive a report from the University of New South Wales. I think it is rather interesting to see what happened in a survey which was carried out. Twenty-five general practitioners were picked out at random by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. Two people went to see these 25 general practitioners and described symptoms, which they said they had, of a mild depressive illness which was clearly of a psychosocial nature rather than primarily a psychiatric problem. 
Each of the 25 doctors were seen by 2 people - there were 50 interviews in ali - describing this mild depressive illness. Although it was clearly of a psychosocial origin, I believe that in only 2 cases did a doctor refer the patient for social welfare counselling. In fact, in 76 per cent of the cases drugs were prescribed and to those 76 per cent psychotropic drugs were prescribed. On only very few occasions did the doctors actually describe the dangers of the drugs which were being provided or give a caution about the concurrent use of alcohol with those preparations. 
 They were people from the university. General practitioners were picked at random by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. Once we get in to the health centre context in which there is a more ready availability of paramedical services and other supportive services, such as welfare counselling, I think we will find that there will be far less recourse to drugs with the consequent problem of drug induced disease. Incidentally, one interesting sidelight of the things that did happen with 25 general practitioners is that six of them spent some of their time actively canvassing against the Government's health insurance proposals. Perhaps the Opposition will concede that something valuable did come out of the interviews which took place. 
I would like to make a few suggestions on a couple of matters to which I would like the Commission to give particular attention. I know that a report already has been given out on the subject of rehabilitation, but I would like to see early attention given to the specific subject of geriatric care, which I think has been neglected in the past. It is going to assume increasingly greater importance because of what 1 think is called the age profile of the community. The community is becoming older. It is being revealed that because people are living longer the geriatric, chronic and degenerative illnesses are becoming very much more prevalent. I think the community will have to face up squarely to the fact that there is going to be a much larger outlay on and a much greater amount of the community's resources are going to have to be diverted to the treatment of the elderly in the community. But let us go about it in a planned way and ensure that the resources are used in the most efficient way and to the best advantage. 
I have in mind in particular the nursing home problem. Unfortunately in the past this has nearly always been managed by private enterprise. Nursing homes are often run by private entrepreneurs. I think the motives of those that are owned by, in particular, large investment organisations are sometimes noi entirely orientated towards the best interests of the patient and they are run purely as a commercial enterprise. Another broad area al which I would like the Commission to look is the whole question of social priorities in the field of health care. I think there is a great capacity for basic research to be carried out here. I have in mind in particular that costbenefit analyses ought to be carried out on the various types of programs that could be undertaken. For instance, there has been a lot of discussion recently about multi-phasic screening - providing a whole range of battery of blood tests for people who turn up and screening them for the prevention and the detection of disease. I think that considerable doubt has been raised in recent times as to whether the community really gets good value for its investment in this. In spite of the large amount of public money that is being diverted to these types of ventures, it appears as though there is not really very much return from them by way of the increased welfare or health of the community. 
Finally, I would like to make one further suggestion of a parochial nature. It refers to the provision of a health centre in the Christies Beach area of South Australia, which is in my electorate. I know that the idea of the provision of a health centre in the Christies Beach area was mooted some time ago. I also know that the reasons for the delay in the provision of this health centre were unavoidable. Those problems have been largely overcome. There will be a meeting to discuss this subject very shortly. I am pleased that the  Deputy Chairman  of the Sax Committee will be able to attend that meeting. I hope that the Minister for Health will be able to ensure that the very real needs of this area will be met and that , we will be able to provide a community health centre in association with the Flinders Medical Faculty at the very earliest opportunity. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill, and I am sure it will herald a great improvement in providing a systematic flow of health services to the people of Australia. 
I thank the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  for his courtesy. Although 1 listened carefully to the remarks of Opposition speakers I found that none of them really addressed his remarks at any stage to the matters that were raised as objections by representatives of the various States towards this Bill. If we have a close look at the legislation we will see that in respect of those matters on which the Australian Government could accommodate the objections, that action has been taken. In other cases it is quite obvious that nothing further could be gained by any further consultation. I believe that the State governments and the State parliaments will accept the position of the Australian Government as being utterly reasonable in this case. 
Therefore one is left to speculate as to why the Opposition in this case is trying to defeat this Bill, or move an amendment which will have the purpose of defeating the Bill. I think the reason came out in the remarks of the honourable member 'for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  when he talked about the concurrent holding of a Senate election when the referendums were put. In other words, what this amounts to is that the Opposition does not want a popular referendum - one which it supports and which it knows everybody will support - to be held concurrently with a Senate election. Its opposition to this Bill fs purely for political purposes. It is merely an attempt to gain a few miserable votes. It is quite obvious that the Opposition is prepared to put the Australian taxpayers to the additional expense of holding a referendum at a different time, and this is solely for political purposes. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said that insufficient notice of this Bill had been given. He knows that this matter was considered at a meeting of Standing Committee B of the Constitutional Convention in Sydney two or three weeks ago. I cannot divulge what happened at the meeting, but the honourable member was present and he saw this Bill some 2 weeks ago. The only amendments made to it since that time are those which were made pursuant to a request by Standing Committee B. I will deal very briefly with the 3 matters that were raised by Standing Committee B in relation to this Bill. The 3 matters were: Firstly, whether a power referred to the Commonwealth by the States or vice versa would be an exclusive power; secondly, whether the power would or would not be revocable; and, thirdly, a request that if a power was referred to one State that same power be offered to all States by the Commonwealth. 
In relation to exclusive powers, the Government has taken the view, which I think was expressed on many occasions at the meeting of Standing Committee B, that we want to introduce a measure that will be used. I cannot see any Australian government of any political colour being willing to refer a power to the States if it is going simultaneously to divest itself of the power it has under section 109 of the Constitution which provides that Commonwealth legislation has precedence in cases of inconsistent legislation. Surely no government will refer any power to a State if it is going to turn around the next week and legislate inconsistently. If any Commonwealth government were to do so it would completely destroy its credibility. If this measure is to work at all there has to be some degree of co-operation and trust between the Commonwealth and the 6 State governments. It has to go on the basis of trust; otherwise it will not go at all. One would not think it would be reasonable for the Commonwealth to refer a power to a State government and then the next week to legislate under section 109 to invalidate completely the reference that it had already made. This would completely destroy its credibility. If the Opposition is asking the Commonwealth to divest itself of its power under section 109 after any reference, then it is asking for a measure that will never be invoked. Let us have something with maximum flexibility. Let us have something that will enable co-operative federalism to work. This matter has been talked about at length in various circles, including the Constitutional Convention. I believe it is a matter that can reasonably be accepted by the States. It is a considerable advance on the present situation in which the Commonwealth cannot refer powers to the States, whether they be exclusive or concurrent. Surely this is a significant advance. I cannot see that anything would be gained by postponing the referendum any further. 
The other matter referred to by the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Isaacs was whether the reference could be revocable. I think this is set out pretty clearly in the Bill. The honourable member for Moreton queried whether under paragraph (e) of proposed new section 108b. certain conditions could be imposed which would make the reference irrevocable. I suggest that paragraph (c) of proposed new section 108b. spells out quite clearly that any State legislature can revoke a reference at any time it chooses. I know that the honourable member for Moreton likes to refer to the Latham judgment which states quite clearly that a State government can repeal previous legislation at any time. If it were not able to do so, that would be a derogation of the sovereignty of a State legislature. I suggest that even if that is not sufficiently strong there is paragraph (c) of proposed new section 108b. which says in black and white that the reference may be revoked at any time by an Act of that Parliament. 
The other matter that was put to the Australian Government was whether a power should be offered to all States if it were to be offered to one State. The Australian Government has acceded to this request and that has been included in the Bill. I suggest that this is something that should please the honourable member for Moreton. Apart from that, this is a measure which he has had adequate time to consider - 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Killen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I intervene only briefly in this discussion. First of all, I refer to a remark made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  when he was discussing the reduction made by the United States Congress in that country's foreign aid vote. He suggested that my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was ideological in his attack upon the United 
States Congress for taking that action. I think this attack on my colleague was somewhat unjustified because we should remember that the reduction made by the United States Congress in that country's foreign aid vote - I agree with my colleague that this is an utter tragedy for the lesser developed countries - was made against the wishes of the Nixon Administration. My understanding is that it was certainly against the wishes of  Mr Robert  McNamara who made attacks upon it. I would not imagine that even the honourable member for Curtin would claim that  Mr McNamara's  attacks on the United States Congress were based on ideology. I strongly support the view put by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand, namely, that it is a terrible shame that the United States seems to be adopting this somewhat narrow and isolationist position. Whatever the reason for the reduction might be, I do not think it will do the cause of the underdeveloped countries any good at all. 
My main reason for making a few remarks in this debate is to give some special emphasis to the greatly accelerated and heightened problem that has occurred due to the oil crisis. Mention has been made already of the effects that the oil crisis will have on the balance of payments problems of the industrialised countries. If the crisis is going to cause problems for industrialised countries, then surely the problems that it will pose for the lesser developed countries will be nothing less than devastating. It appears that the increase in the cost of petroleum and petroleum products that the developing countries will have to meet this year will wipe out the foreign aid commitment made to them by the more developed countries. 
This has tremendously far reaching implications for these underdeveloped countries because they depend upon foreign aid to pay not only for petroleum but for all their imports. If all their imports are to be more expensive, if the cost of petroleum products is to be infinitely more expensive and if this will completely wipe out any increased foreign aid that these underdeveloped countries receive, I just do not know where these countries will finish up. They still have the continuing problem of high population growth. If they are prevented from importing goods, equipment and services in order to improve their living standards, it seems to me that they will be very lucky if they are able to stand still; but it would not be surprising to see the underdeveloped countries slip even further behind, thereby causing an even wider disparity between their living standards and those in the industrialised countries. 
In this context I was appalled to hear the attitude expressed on a television program last weekend by, I think it was, a former Chief of the Naval Staff in Australia who pointed to the widening disparity between the living standards in Australia and those in the countries around us. He said that surely the time will come when one of these countries will want to look with envious eyes upon what we have and perhaps will want to come and take some by force for itself. What was his remedy? It was not to try to close the gap between the living standards of the 2 countries but to arm ourselves to the teeth to prevent another country from having a share for itself. What an utterly morally bankrupt attitude that is! I just hope that is not the attitude that is held by most Australians or most members of the armed forces. I want to say a little more about that matter in a later debate, when we come to discuss the overseas visit made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I believe that we have to take a more humane attitude to this problem. If there is a widening of the gap in living standards, then it is up to us to do what we can in an endeavour to close the gap. I think that the Bill before the House will have some beneficial effect, but I do not know that it will go far enough. 
The Shah of Iran, of course, is in an extremely fortunate position at the moment because he happens to be the head of government of a country which has done extremely well out of the current oil crisis and perhaps is better placed than Australia. But it is interesting to note that the Shah of Iran has suggested the establishment of an international fund to help to overcome the balance of payments problems which underdeveloped countries will experience as a result of the oil crisis. I would like to see the Australian Government do everything it can to help in that regard. Under this Bill Australia will increase its subscription by US$4 1.1 4m, which in Australian currency is a slightly lesser amount. Only part of that money will be paid and thi rest will remain at call. 
I wonder whether the Australian Government could not do better. After all, we still have a very strong currency and', as my friend the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, we still have a very large surplus in our balance of payments. I cannot really see - perhaps somebody more versed than I am in economic affairs can tell me about this - that it would do any harm if Australia put the majority of its foreign currency reserves at the disposal of the underdeveloped countries - not just US$4 1.1 4m, but many times that amount. It would not have any adverse affect upon our internal economic situation. I believe that if we took some action like this it would be a more realistic objective for the Australian Government in trying to help these underdeveloped countries. I cannot see that this would do any great harm to the Australian economy; so for goodness sake why cannot we do this sort of thing? 
The situation is really one of great urgency if the underdeveloped countries are not to fall even further behind now that the oil crisis has come upon us. I do not know what our reserves are at the moment. I think they amount to about $3.9 billion. What is the use of having this money just sitting there? All it is doing is adding to our domestic money supply. Making this money available to assist underdeveloped countries might even have a beneficial effect on the Australian economy. Perhaps my friend the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  will be able to put me right on this matter. Surely we can afford to do much more than we are doing. If the proposal put forward by the Shah of Iran gets off the ground - I understand that the proposed international fund is to be financed partly by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and partly by industrialised countries - why could not we all put in and do everything we can? If we do not, I believe that the world will be a very much sorrier place at the end of 1974 than it was at the beginning. I support this measure but I would like to see this Government do a great deal more. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was going to read out a statement following on the statement made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It was a statement by  Mr J.  H. Doyle supplementary to that made by the honourable member for Adelaide concerning charges made by  Mr R.  Steele Hall, M.P., relating to the trade union audit of the Storemen and Packers Union in South Australia. Because of the lack of time available to me, I ask permission to have the statement incorporated in Hansard. 
Mir SPEAKER-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I am a member of the Australian Society of Accountants, the person who carried out the detailed work on the audits of C. J. Hurford &amp; Co., Chartered Accountants, under the supervision of  Mr Hurford  and others, and the person mentioned by Hr Hall, M.P., in his statement in the South Australian Parliament on 26 February 1974. I associate myself completely with  Mr Hurford's  statement concerning  Mr Hall's  baseless attack on us. 
In his statement about the audit of the Storemen and Packers' Union, South Australian Branch,  Mr Hall  attributed to me (a) that I had indicated that there was no misappropriation and that debts were due to the overspending of union funds, (b) that I had given the advice 'You can't call the police in', but that I had retracted this and had used the words to  Mr Jack  Petrie, Federal Secretary of the Storemen and Packers' Union, "There's no doubt someone is tickling the peter and we both know who it is', and (c) that later I had advised that the former secretary of the South Australian Branch of the Union should be dealt with severely but this should be done without police intervention. These statements of  Mr Hall's  are absolutely false and I deny them completely. 
The facts are that (i) I attended a meeting of the Branch Management Committee in January 1973 by invitation, (ii) At no time did I give advice as to whether or not there had been a misappropriation because I had insufficient evidence and could only state what is public knowledge in the published auditors' reports, (iii) My only intervention related to the tendering of advice concerning the rules of the branch which had been registered under the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act and this advice did on one occasion in the meeting result in the rewording of a resolution, (iv) I have verified these facts by examining the Minutes of the Branch and my own record of what took place at the Branch Committee Meeting written the day after the meeting. 

 Mr Hall made no attempt to check the facts with me. Because he will not repeat his charges outside the Parliament where their truthfulness can be tested in the Courts, he has caused me personal damage in a cowardly way for his own base political motives. 
H. DOYLE 
11 March 1974. 
Can the Treasurer say how public spending could be reduced while simultaneously undertaking additional expenditure in excess of S 1,000m for defence and other activities, and reducing taxation by at least $600m, as promised by the Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition spokesmen? Can he say what would be the rate of inflation if these measures were taken in conjunction with the reduced interest rates and the floating of the Australian dollar, also promised by honourable members opposite? 
This is not a hypothetical question. I am not asking whether it is to become Government policy. I am merely asking for statement of fact as to how public expenditure might be so reduced. I am asking for an arithmetical answer. 
Tonight I raise a matter that I think will be of the utmost importance to the Australian electorate at the time of the forthcoming Senate election. I want to refer to a matter that will have very serious implications for the Australian people and the Australian taxpayer in particular if the Australian people are saddled, after the Senate election, with a non-Labor majority in the Senate which takes the same attitude as the present non-Labor majority in the Senate has taken in relation to land acquisition in the Australian Capital Territory. It is possible that the Australian taxpayer will find himself up for a bill of $200m. It should be remembered that I am referring to the attitude of an Opposition which is urging the Government to save money. Despite the protestations of the non-Labor majority in the Senate about saving money, it is trying to force the Australian 
Government into a position where we could be liable to pay up to $200m to the owners of private property in the Australian Capital Territory which the Government wishes to acquire for urban development. 
This matter arose out of a case which I raised last year in this House following the rejection by the Senate last November of the Land Acquisition (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1973. This matter arose out of a dispute over the Lanyon property, which the Government has acquired for the purposes of urban development of an area which will be known as Tuggeranong. It arose out of a decision by the Gorton Government in 1970 to purchase the remaining freehold land in the Australian Capital Territory and convert it into leasehold, as is the rest of the land in the Australian Capital Territory. At the time there was a Country Party Minister for the Interior. Under the Gorton Government an agreement was reached with the owners of Lanyon station on a payment of $ 1.875m. That was pursuant to a precedent that has been followed by governments of all political colours ever since 1910 for the development of Canberra that any increase in the value of land arising out of a decision by the community to develop the land should accrue to the community as a whole and not to the individual landholder. As a result the offer was made for the payment of $ 1.875m, which works out at about $2,000 an acre. I must say that even on rural prices that was in itself an extremely generous offer. In fact, stronger words could be said about it. But at least it was based on the previous precedents for the Australian Capital Territory, although, as I have said, the price offered worked out at $2,000 an acre whereas good rural land in surrounding areas is going for about $200 an acre. 
Not satisfied with that offer the owners of the 'Lanyon' property have decided that they believe that they are the ones who should receive the unearned increment on this land and have put in for the figure of - wait for it  - i$35m.  As I have said, the offer made by the previous Country Party administration to the owners of the property was quite a reasonable one. In fact, it could be said that it was excessively generous. I think it could reasonably be expected to have been accepted on the basis of the precedents surrounding all previous cases of land acquisition in the Australian Capital Territory and also because the Lands Acquisition Act does say that regard shall not be had to any increase in the value of land arising from any proposal to carry out the public purpose for which the land was acquired. Surely that is a fair thing. I should have thought that most people in the community would have accepted the proposition that in any land acquisition for public purposes a fair price should be paid for the land. 
I do not propose to discuss the matter before the court. I propose to discuss, if the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  will be patient, a Bill that was rejected by the Senate last year. I refer to a measure introduced by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  which sought to rectify the present legislation and to clarify the situation so that the spirit of the Act, as has been practised and embodied since 1910, will continue to be practised. It would have carried on the spirit of the offer made by a Country - Party Minister for the property some 3 years previously. Why the colleagues of honourable members opposite changed their mind I cannot say. It would appear to me that the only reason the Opposition in the Senate had for opposing the legislation was that it was put up by a Labor Government. For the life of me I cannot see any other reason why that should have been done. 
I think the honourable member for Petrie might have a chance to say afterwards what he wants to say about this matter. I hope he will allow me to finish what I want to say. I think it is very important to consider what the outcome could be because if a precedent were to be set in this matter the taxpayers could be up for some S200m for land settlements in the Australian Capital Territory. The Government is being pushed by the Opposition to reduce its spending. I seriously ask the House and the Australian people to give very close consideration to this matter because if there is still a hostile Senate after 30 June and it takes the same attitude to this matter as the present Senate, the Australian taxpayers will find themselves up for $200m or something of that order. Of course, that cost eventually will have to be passed on to the people purchasing land for housing purposes in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I believe this is an absolutely outrageous situation. One could justify saying to the people of Australia that there are certain things on which the Government has to spend money, but for the life of me I cannot see why we should consider giving money to property owners who already have substantial wealth and substantial assets. I can see no justification for it. I believe this is something that the people must bear in mind very closely when they cast their votes at the Senate election on 18 May. 
I had already intended to begin my remarks by pointing out that this is the most trivial matter that this Parliament has discussed for a long time, but what greater testimony could there be to the fact that this is such a puny matter than the fact that the honourable member who proposed the discussion of this matter of great public importance, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  is not present in the House and, I understand, will not be present in the House for the remainder of the debate on this subject? We are shortly to have a general election. The people of Australia want to know the policies and the programs of the Government and the Opposition. They want to know about the important things that affect their daily lives. They want to know whether they will continue to have security of employment and whether their sons are going to be conscripted if by any mischance the Opposition were re-elected into government. But instead of these important subjects coming forward, we are discussing these quite trivial matters. 
It is quite obvious that the Opposition does not want to discuss the real issues of employment and, for that matter, the real issues involving health care. Yesterday, the Parliament had a lot of its time taken up by an utterly trivial matter concerning you,  Mr Speaker,  when we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  devoting a considerable amount of time to criticising the fact that you were given to witticisms from the chair. What a weighty matter! But for sheer irrelevance and triviality, this matter of public importance we are discussing today is certainly unparalleled in my experience in this Parliament. We have heard discussions about a meeting that is supposed to have taken place a couple of weeks ago between  Dr Deeble,  an adviser to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  and certain representatives of health care connected, I think, with the private hospitals. What are the matters we are asked to look at? We are asked to consider whether  Dr Deeble  advised these people that the Minister would meet with them later in the week. Did the Minister state that he was prepared to meet with these people for these discussions, or did he not? My word, is not this really a tremendously important matter! What about the question of air fares? Did the delegates to this meeting have their air fares paid? Was this offered to them or did they ask for it? What matters of tremendous moment these are. 
As I said, we have an election imminent in Australia. We have a health insurance scheme which has evolved after many years of Liberal government which, by the Liberal's own report, they now admit to be a momentous failure. The people of Australia want to know the alternative propositions that are being put up by the 2 major Parties. Are they to be given that information today? No. The people are to be asked to consider whether or not the Minister for Social Security was prepared to meet representatives of a private hospital at a meeting in Melbourne. Cannot honourable members imagine the working people of Australia and the farmers taking to the streets about this matter and saying: 'Never mind about matters of employment, wages, prices or anything like that. What we want to know is whether or not  Mr Hayden  said he would meet some people in Melbourne*. I cannot blame the honourable member for Hotham, who moved this so-called matter of public importance, for beating a prudent retreat from the House for the remainder of this debate. 
On the matter of the so-called secrecy regarding the meeting in Melbourne which has been raised by a number of Opposition speakers in this debate, I think it is interesting to compare the secrecy surrounding the health policies of this Government with that surrounding the health policies of the Opposition. We know that the present health insurance proposals of the Government were first outlined in specific detail by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition in a lengthy address which was printed in the Australian Medical Association's Journal in July 1968. That proposal has been repeatedly explained and described since. We had the Green Paper printed last year and subsequently, the White Paper has been printed. The Minister for Social Security on many occasions has been to public forums and explained his policy. In contrast, have a look at the sort of open government in which the Liberal Party believes. Even to the present time, members of the Liberal Party maintain that their health policy is a completely confidential one. I am sure that many honourable members will have seen the program 'This Day Tonight' last week on which the honourable member for Hotham was asked what his health policy was. Even then he was not prepared to disclose it to the public. For the same reason, I suspect, the Leader of the Opposition this week declined to conduct lengthy interviews because he does not want to have to explain his policies. He does not trust people. He is not prepared to take, them into his confidence to explain what his health policies are. In spite of all these protestations about open government, we do not find very much sympathy for it from the Opposition Parties. 
It is very interesting to hear discussion, particularly by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  about the Government's health insurance proposals. I think it would be very good if the people of Australia could have an explanation of the Liberal Party's health insurance proposals because they make extremely interesting reading. There are many features of its proposals which I find very disturbing and which I believe the Australian people also will find very disturbing. Not the least of these is the proposed complete subservience that a Liberal Government would have towards private health insurance funds. The Opposition proposes that everybody will be conscripted into belonging to a private health insurance fund. Since we have had the Earle Page scheme, which has been in existence with modifications since 1951, every person, whether he wanted to or not, has been virtually required to subscribe to a private health insurance fund under pain of not having Commonwealth benefits given to him if he did not join. Now the Opposition proposes to go even further. The Liberal Party admits that according to its own figures there are one million people who are not covered by health insurance under this so-called best scheme in the world. What does the Opposition intend to do? It proposes to garnishee wages and incomes of the 8 per cent of people whom it says are not covered by health insurance. But the money is not to go into any public fund that is answerable to the Parliament; the money is to be given to these private monopolies. 
The money is to be given to these private funds on tender. Honourable members opposite talk about people having a choice between different private health insurance funds. In the case of these people who could have their wages garnisheed, what choice would there be about going into a private health insurance organisation? Would they have any choice as to which fund they could join? Of course they would not. The Government's proposal is that there should be a fund which is answerable to the Australian Parliament and, through it, to the Australian people. To whom would the health funds be answerable under the Opposition's proposal? They would be answerable to nobody but the little clique of people who form the directorships of these private health funds. It is interesting to look at paragraph 27 of draft No. 2 of the Opposition parties health scheme which originally proposed that there should be democratic elections for the directors of these funds. It is highly significant that this paragraph has been completely deleted. So the Liberal Party favours the present situation in which the directors of funds are not democratically elected by the contributors but continue to be nominated by people who represent basically not consumer groups but hospital organisations and the Australian Medical Association and so on. 
It is interesting to see the crocodile tears shed by members of the Opposition in respect of privacy under our proposal. It is interesting to see that the Liberal Party also has adopted a proposal for bulk billing. The Liberal Party proposes that the patient should put on the form that he sends to the fund the reason why he sought treatment. The patient would not be able to show only the number of the item. There could be none of this. Under the Opposition's proposed scheme the patient would have to put down the illness for which he was treated. This would not go onto coded computered cards. Presumably it would go into the open files of the health insurance funds and any employee of those funds would have access to the details which could be used and which have been used in the past. There has been a quite serious form of abuse in certain cases where private funds have had access to patients' records. I believe that this is a most serious situation. It is certainly extraordinary that there should be criticism of the Government's proposal in which there would be complete guaranteed security under the highly scrupulous methods which have been advocated for maintaining confidentiality of patients' records. 
I listened with great interest to the 45 minute address given to the House by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  One of the remarkable things about the honourable member for Hotham is that he always seems to be able to tailor the contents of his speech according to his audience. When he is speaking outside this Parliament to a group of university students or to some other such group, he always projects himself, apparently fairly successfully, as a progressive and small '1' liberal. However, when he comes into this House he realises that he has the eyes of his colleagues piercing into his back and that he must sound as conservative as possible and hence today we heard him berating the Government for what he called a socialist health scheme. He really took the Government to task on it. But for all the bluster and fist thumping on the table that we heard from the honourable member for Hotham I think that most of the indignation that he expressed about the Government's proposals was spurious. 
I should like to say a couple of things about what the honourable member for Hotham said in his speech. It seems that the main area on which he wanted to attack the Government's proposals related to our intentions in regard to hospitals and particularly to our proposal to abolish the means test for entry into public award hospital accommodation throughout Australia. It is true that the proposals of the Government will provide public ward hospital accommodation to anybody who wants it, without fees and without means test and, of course, without the necessity for any private hospital insurance. In other words, what we are proposing to implement is pretty well the same scheme as has been operating for many years in Queensland. That scheme was introduced by co-operative action between the then Commonwealth Labor Government and the State Labor Government. It has worked well and is the scheme which we propose to emulate throughout the rest of Australia. I trust that nobody from Queensland would want to turn back the clock to a situation where the hospital system was mainly out of the hands of the government or was without a substantial degree of government financing. 
I should like to refer for a moment to the situation in South Australia, which is the situation with which I am most familiar. The honourable member for Hotham said that the problem would be that by providing everybody with access to public ward hospital accommodation, we would not be able to cope because there are not enough public hospital beds. The fact is that it is the present health scheme which has resulted in too few public hospital beds being available. We have a situation in South Australia where people who would prefer to use public hospital accommodation - because, after all, it does provide superior facilities - know that they would be unable to obtain such accommodation. That is the situation which has been thrown up by the present voluntary health insurance scheme. 
For many years in South Australia we had a Liberal Party Premier by the name of  Sir Thomas  Playford. While he may have had some merits, one of the things he was not very keen on was spending a lot of money on public hospitals. He was quite content to allow other organisations to build them and take the responsibility off his shoulders. This situation was very much encouraged by the system of health insurance which we have inherited. As a result, there are now many people in South Australia who would like to take public ward hospital accommodation but it is not available to them because of the system that we have inherited. Those people are forced, whether they like it or not to take out extra private hospital insurance - something that in many cases they are unable to afford and something that they will not have to pay for under the scheme which we propose to introduce. 
When objecting to the Government's proposal to remove the means test on public hospital accommodation, the honourable member for Hotham said that the Australian Labor Party could overcome this problem in the interim by conscripting private hospitals. What does he really mean by the term 'conscripting private hospitals'? Before I proceed to that point, I might mention that it is interesting that the honourable member for Hotham is basing his opposition to our scheme not so much on the welfare of patients but on the interests of private hospitals. He had a great deal to say about the interests of the private hospitals and the interests of the Australian Medical Association and I think he even mentioned the Junior Chamber of Commerce. Heavens, we must not forget the interests of the Junior Chamber of Commerce. That body is a fairly vital element in the field of patient welfare. Speaking once again of the situation in South Australia, which I believe is especially relevant to this argument because that State has the highest proportion of nongovernment hospital beds of any State in Australia, I have had many discussions with various hospital representatives and other interested people in South Australia. There will be no need for any conscription of private hospitals to enable us to provide a sufficient number of public hospital beds. The community hospitals and certain other hospitals will willingly provide sufficient beds to cope with any increase in demand for public hospital accommodation. I cannot see for the life of me what is wrong with that. What is wrong with a non-government hospital providing that the Government pays for it? Has it not happened for years in Victoria? What about St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne, a hospital that provides public hospital facilities but is essentially a non-government organisation. If one is to call that nationalisation or socialism, what is wrong with socialism or nationalisation? 
I, for the life of me, cannot see why a government should not take a major responsibility for health care. Do we not do this in the case of education? Surely we take the view in the case of  so  many other areas that the Government has a basic responsibility. We do this with education and protection against fire. Surely we would not have a system of fire protection dependent upon where a private enterprise fire brigade chose to set up its premises. Quite obviously that would be an absurd proposition. I believe the same thing applies in the case of health care where the community must accept a major responsibility. If that is a socialist health viewpoint I wholeheartedly support socialist medicine. 
The Bill that we are discussing of course has been before the House on 2 previous occasions. I do not suppose that there is much that can be said about it that has not been said before. The question has been resolved on 2 occasions by the Australian electorate which has given its approval to the Australian Government to go ahead with these proposals. Now that it is clear, in view of the likely result of the joint sitting, that the measure will go through, surely it is the duty of every body concerned to co-operate and to consult with each other to ensure that the transition to the new scheme is as smooth as possible and operates to the benefit of the community. 
I was particularly encouraged quite recently by a public statement made by the newly appointed President of the Australian Medical Association in South Australia who made what I believe to be a very responsible and conciliatory statement. He conceded that the proposal has been endorsed by the electorate and it is up to everybody concerned to ensure that there is discussion and co-operation between all parties in the interests of the patients. I hope that that attitude is reflected by the federal officials of the Australian Medical Association. I believe that if they do not have that same attitude they will be acting contrary to the interests not only of the public but also to the interests and wishes of their members. 
One point of this proposal which I think is worth reiterating in the light of discussions that took place at the recent Premiers Conference is the proposal to provide public hospital accommodation free of charge and free of means test. This is a significant factor to bear in mind having regard to the decision taken by State governments to raise hospital charges. Because of the shortfall in the State Government Budget public hospital charges in South Australia will be raised by upwards of $7 a day. Unfortunately this will mean an increase in the rate of contribution to voluntary hospital insurance funds, but it is worthwhile noting that this is only a temporary arrangement. After the Government's national health insurance program comes in of course there will be no hospital charges or means test and there will be no need for hospital insurance. For that reason the people who now are required to pay increased contribution rates will not have to pay them when the Government's proposals go through. 
Not only will the scheme mean great benefit for the contributors and for the patients; it will also be of great significance to the budgetary problems of the State governments. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out, it is intended that there will be a cost sharing arrangement with the State governments to provide adequate public hospital accommodation. This will significantly alleviate the budgetary problems which the State governments now have. I have already mentioned that the scheme will be of great benefit to the patients as well, many of whom now are unwillingly forced to take private hospital insurance. 
I believe the scheme will be of great benefit if it can be implemented quickly so that we can get on to devote more attention to some of the other problems of health care. I think that one of the unfortunate features of the fact that the debate on this measure we are discussing today has been so protracted, largely due to the activities of the Senate, is that a great deal of attention has been focused on the financial aspects of covering the costs of acute illness. It has diverted attention from other areas which are just as important and in some cases more important. I hope that the passage of this Bill, if it can go ahead quickly, will mean not the end of an era but the beginning of many changes which will have to be carried out. 
We will have to look at some very radical changes particularly in the care of the sick aged in our community. The measure that we are bringing in today will continue the same type of assistance for patients, for example in nursing homes, already provided under the present voluntary health insurance scheme. The national health insurance fund will provide the same level of benefits for insured patients as the private funds provide at present. The same thing will apply for pensioner patients who are also to receive the same payment as insured patients receive from the private funds at present. I believe that something more must be done than just transferring the responsibility from the voluntary funds to the government fund. 
This week the Minister for Social Security announced some very substantial increased benefits for nursing home patients. As we all know it was a very costly and necessary measure. But surely this is not the long term solution to the problem. The present situation is quite unsatisfactory. I am quite sure that the Minister for Social Security would be the first to agree with that proposition. Until now governments have abdicated the field of nursing home care. They paid private enterprise to carry on the care of the sick aged. The result of this has .been state aid at its very worst. It has meant open handed subsidies to private commericial ventures to carry on what I am sure everyone on this side of the House would agree is a responsibility of government, not necessarily Commonwealth government but also State and local government. 
I have always found it rather difficult to reconcile the different responsibilities that governments accept between a patient who is in a public hospital and on the other hand a person who is discharged from a public hospital and goes into a nursing home. Frankly, I do not really see a justification for any greatly different financial arrangements at all. There is really no line of division between an acutely ill patient and a nursing home patient. There are lots of grey areas. For example, I do not think that one can say that an elderly patient with a fractured femur or something like that which requires prolonged hospital treatment is an acutely ill patient, but on the other hand he is not what one would call a nursing home patient as presently defined. There is a grey area. I should like to see the governments accept responsibility over a wide area and not divide it up into 2 categories between the general hospital patient and the nursing home patient. In one area the Government accepts great responsibility and in the other area pays private enterprise to take it off its hands. 
In the field of general hospitals are public hospitals, community hospitals and religious hospitals. But only a very small area is the responsibility of private enterprise. In fact the number of private hospitals is becoming fewer all the time. As far as I am concerned that is a good thing. If the last private hospital disappears and becomes a public hospital I certainly will not shed any tears over that. But in .the case of nursing homes I .believe that the relative amount of treatment that is taken up by the public sector is not sufficient. I am sure that the Minister again would agree with this proposition. We should compare the situation of the general hospitals with other areas where the Government accepts that it 'has a major community responsibility and I should like to see the situation where government of one sort takes a greater degree of responsibility for nursing home care. 
I have long held the view that local government would be very suited to this area. Facilities are already available in the Aged Persons Homes Act for local government to set up its own nursing homes. Local government does not have to build new homes. It can buy from existing proprietors. I have communicated on some occasions with the local government councils in my own electorate but, unfortunately, I have not yet been successful in persuading them to take up this area of responsibility. However, I hope the time will come when they do so. I should like local governments in Australia to think about establishing their own nursing homes next time plans are presented for their approval for the construction of private nursing homes. I should like the councillors to think: 'Why do we not do this ourselves and provide some good amenity at a lower cost to our own ratepayers?' Apart from that, after the introduction of this scheme I should like the Australian Government to take an active role in financing and even, if necessary, administering nursing homes. In the past this has been left too much to private enterprise. Quite frankly, I do not believe, although acknowledging that we do have a mixed economy of Government and private enterprise, that the area of health - perhaps like defence - is one that should be managed by private enterprise. It is a responsibility which should be accepted by the community at large. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill 
Has the Minister for Housing and Construction seen a report in the Press that there has been a unexpected drop in the past 2 weeks in consumer demand for building supplies in Canberra? Is this the general trend throughout Australia or is it merely restricted to the Australian Capital Territory? Can the Minister say whether any slackening of private sector demand for building materials is indicated by information reaching his Department? If so, are the public housing authorities geared to take advantage of this slackening immediately? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it the Government's intention to overcome the shortage of housing by directing building resources away from the building of office blocks and into the building of houses? In fact, is one of the intentions of the Financial Corporations Bill to enable directions to be given to non-bank institutions instructing them to lend for houses rather than for empty office blocks? Is it not a fact that some of the worst offenders in this area are the insurance companies? I therefore ask the Treasurer: What is the purpose of the Act if the Government is going to exclude the insurance companies from its ambit? Is it the Treasurer's intention to pass legislation to provide for similar control over the insurance companies as well as the other non-bank financial institutions? 
If a government is to exercise responsible control over 'the national economy it is absolutely vital that it be clothed with the power it needs to take any measure which it sees as appropriate at any particular time. The Financial Corporations Bill, which we are examining tonight will provide the Government with a further option to those powers which it already possesses. It does not possess this option at present. This measure is long overdue. This Bill will extend the present powers which the Government, through the Reserve Bank, has over the banks to the non-bank financial institutions. It does not follow that the Government will bring in a whole range of direct controls over the non-bank financial institutions, any more than the existing powers have resulted in direct controls over the banks. But it is important that the powers are there to be used judiciously if and when necessary. 
In the 1940s, when the then Labor Government introduced similar powers over the banks under the Banking Act, it appeared at the time that they would be sufficient to exercise adequate monetary controls. However, since that time there has been a burgeoning of the financial institutions outside the controls of the present Act. It is necessary, therefore, to adapt to the new economic environment. It is remarkable how the conventional wisdom on this matter changes. When the Labor Government in the 1940s introduced controls over the banks in the Banking Act the then Liberal Opposition vigorously opposed the measures. It said that a future Liberal 'government would repeal the Act. Of course, history shows that the following liberal governments did not repeal the Act at all. I suppose the opposition of the Liberal Party at the time was the natural human fear of change. The change, of course, was essential and eventually it was accepted by all political parties in Australia as being essential. There is no question that after this measure we 'are debating tonight has been adopted everyone will come to accept that it too is a normal and quite proper power for a central government to have in controlling the non-bank financial institutions. 
The measure is, of course, very long overdue. The Opposition says that it supports it. But it was in power for many years - more than 20 years - and it did nothing about it. I presume that it was the same fear of change which dominates all Liberal governments which was responsible for its inertia. I well remember the remark of a former Labor member of this House when, in speaking about the long reign as Prime Minister of Australia of  Sir Robert  Menzies, he said that  Sir Robert  Menzies did not so very much bend events to his will, he merely presided over what happened. The attitude of Liberal governments is epitomised in this respect by their failure to do anything about the non-bank financial institutions. It is a good example of the inertia which characterises all Liberal governments. 
In the recent months since this legislation was first mooted, considerable efforts have been made by the various financial institutions, which I shall call fringe banks, to persuade the Government to abandon the legislation. The hire purchase companies, not surprisingly, have expressed their outright opposition. Other institutions, seeing the writing on the wall, have each asked for special consideration. The permanent building societies, for instance, have said: 'Go ahead with the measure but leave us out because we are a special case'. The acceptance houses have put forward a rather extraordinary proposition. On the one hand they say that they should be excluded from the legislation, but on the other hand they want the whole field of intercompany loans brought within the legislation. My view, if I make any criticism of the legislation, is that it does not go far enough. I believe it should include the inter-company market. I believe, as I implied in a question I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  the other day, that the legislation should include life insurance companies within its ambit. If they are not to be included I hope that in the future some appropriate complementary legislation will be brought in to provide similar controls over them. 
As a general rule, the free market forces may be effective in generating an adequate degree of economic welfare. But this is only a general rule. The trouble is that markets in general are not free. I think nearly all economists now subscribe to that view. Even the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who is being unusually rowdy this evening and who is perhaps the most conservative economist in this Parliament and perhaps the most conservative economist this country has ever seen, I think would agree that some degree of public regulation over the private sector is essential. This does not apply only in the field of controlling financial institutions. There must be control in all spheres of the economy. To take an example, in the common area of wages, I think everybody accepts that the open market cannot be the only means of determining wages., because that would result in excessive inequality of incomes. Everybody accepts that there must be a body such as the Arbitration Commission separated from the open market to determine a national minimum wage to ensure that all workers are guaranteed the necessities of life. 
Everybody accepts that unfettered private enterprise can and does result in monopoly or its opposite, excessive fragmentation. These matters undoubtedly require government intervention, although there may be legitimate disagreement about the type of in-, terventionthere ought to be. Certainly, the Australian Country Party believes in the distortion of market forces. Indeed, that is what the Country Party is all about. The plethora of rural subsidies and the granting of loans at subsidised interest rates to rural producers at the expense of everybody else in the community, of course, are completely orthodox to a Country Party man. 
I notice that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said earlier that a Liberal-Country Party government would introduce a completely market-orientated monetary policy. It is interesting to listen to that statement in the light of the history of the Liberal-Country Party Government which interfered with the exchange rate to maintain it at an artificially low parity. There are a number of other examples of such policies. 
For instance, it is only since the Labor Government has been in office that the banks have been free to operate in the open market in dealing with negotiable certificates of deposit. This is a restriction that was taken off them under the Labor Govenment. In fact, it is only since the Labor Government came to office that we have had a truly market orientated capital market in Australia. Similarly, distortions occur in the area where fringe banks operate, so it is essential that we have public regulation of these institutions! The most topical example of where direct controls over fringe banks are needed is the rates of interest at present being paid and received by hire purchase companies. 
I refer particularly to the happenings in the financial market after the Government's activities in the securities market last year and earlier this year. Last September the Reserve Bank began vigorous selling of government securities at a reduced price. Following this, Commonwealth cash loans were issued also at an increased rate. The effect of this was to divert funds out of the private sector into government securities. I rebuff the argument put earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  This was a proper action to take to reduce the demand for housing in the private sector back to the level where supply was able to "cope with demand - for building resources - and also to try to divert resources in into the welfare housing field and through the housing money made available through the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. This action has been successful in reducing the rate of approvals to a level with which the building industry can cope. I believe it will soon also be reflected in a levelling off of hous'ing costs. 
However, there was an undesirable side effect in that building societies had to raise their interest rates to compete for the limited funds available. Some increased interest rates were passed on to people paying off existing mortgages. The Government successfully persuaded most building societies to restrain their increased interest rates to a maximum of one per cent. However, because of the lack of any direct controls over the fringe banks, the Government was quite powerless to do anything about the hire purchase companies. The result was that the hire purchase companies subsequently floated new loans at substantially increased rates of interest which must eventually, of course, be passed on to the borrowers. So the situation was that the interest rates of the building societies were controlled by voluntary co-operation- temporarily anyway - but no such restraint was applied to the hire purchase companies.' Of course, if the Government had tried to' get them to apply restraint; it would not have been possible for them to do so. In contrast to the building societies the hire purchase companies are primarily profit-making institutions. The hire purchase companies, as a result of this lopsided situation, were able to outbid the building societies which have now started to find the situation very difficult. Some have recently announced that their interest rates will have to go up further. 
I believe that with the passage of this legislation the Government could limit the interest, rates of hire purchase companies and the building societies then would be able to compete for funds at a lower level of interest rates. I believe that this is an outstanding example of the need for judicious use of direct controls. This would not be the long term solution, but at the right time and in the right place direct control of interest rates could have improved the lot of many home owners and, beyond that, the situation that the Government was faced with last year. Perhaps the most important area in which this Bill could be effective is in the control of the type of lending activities carried out - that is, the qualitative control. These are areas which cry out for government control. 
The problems which have occurred from the building activities of financial corporations have become a national scandal. 1 am refer.ring particularly to the excessive number of high rise office blocks being built in our capital cities. Large amounts of building materials and labour are being wasted on private office space. It was interesting to see even the spectacle in a recent television program of the director of a large building corporation admitting that the high rise development that is taking place now is far in excess of present needs. But he still said that it was a good financial investment. No government can tolerate that situation when labour and materials are urgently needed for building houses. 
The direction of investment into areas of greatest priority is, therefore, a most important result of this Bill. If the interests of private enterprise do not coincide with the national interest, the lending institutions will have to be prevailed upon. I know that definition of the term 'national interest' is very elusive. Frequently when governments refer to the national interest they really mean their own political interest. Surely nobody could quibble with the proposition that building houses is much more important than building empty office blocks. Up to the present time the only body which has exercised any responsible attitude to what type of buildings should go up has been the Builders Labourers Federation with its highly commendable policy of preserving Sydney's heritage. I should like to see the Builders Labourers Federation exert a similar influence to ensure that priorities in the building industry go towards building houses and not office blocks. 
This Bill will enable the Government to have the same control over capital investment in Australia. I believe such government control is quite justifiable. I believe it is quite justifiable for the working people of Australia, such as members of the Builders Labourers Federation, to have a similar say in the direction of investment in Australia. I cannot see that it should be the exclusive prerogative of those people who own capital in Australia to determine what should be the direction of investment. I abhor the fact that in doing this in the public interest, at the cost of their own welfare, members of the Builders Labourers Federation found that their organisation was deregistered. That is a fact which I deplore. I hope we will not see it perpetuated. 
As I have said, I regret that insurance companies have been excluded from this legislation because I believe that they are perhaps the main transgressors in the misallocation of resources in the building industry. I believe direct controls will be required to direct investment away from land. A major social problem has been the issuing of funds at high interest rates for people to purchase land for purely speculative reasons. The result has been to reduce the amount of land available for building houses and to drive up the cost of building blocks. I should like to add, however, that there are certain other urgent measures necessary to control land prices. I again ask the Government to give consideration to introducing a capital gains tax on land to be paid annually on the increased value of undeveloped land even if that increased value has not been realised at a sale. 
The fringe banks have expressed the view that all controls, where possible, should be voluntary. I agree with them. I think that perhaps the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  agrees also. It is quite clearly in the interests of the Government as well as the institutions concerned that controls should be obtained, as far as possible, by voluntary co-operation. In this way, we can avoid having to establish a bureaucracy to police the regulations. It would avoid the development of other institutions outside the ambit of the present Act or what I think is referred to by the 'in' group as disintermediation. However, it is important that the Government should have the power to enforce its monetary policy should that need arise. Perhaps one particular area will be when bond yields drop, which I hope will not be too for into the future, and when we find that there should be a tendency for interest rates to drop. However, what I do fear is that when the monetary situation in this country can be eased, it will not be followed by the fall in interest rates which we would like to expect. I suppose it is a little like what has happened with the revaluation of our currency; we found that the price of imports did not drop as it should have but merely that the importers were making a greater mark up. 
If I recall correctly, under the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1971 there was an increase in interest rates which was passed on to borrowers but when subsequently the bond rate was reduced the same reduction in interest rates was not at the time passed on to borrowers. That is the sort of action over which some sort of direct control is essential to ensure that that type of ratchet effect does not occur. 
In relation to the control of hire purchase companies, I believe we ought to examine the possibility of the Commonwealth Bank competing with private enterprise in hire purchase. I should like to see the Commonwealth Bank establish its own hire purchase subsidiary. The Commonwealth Bank, because of its highly competitive interest rates, has a beneficial influence on the conventional banking sector and in the field of housing in particular. I should like to see this precedent followed in the field of hire purchase. In bringing this measure in, the Government is not using the big stick. The open market will continue to operate as long as it is the servant of the people and not their master. It will act primarily in co-operation and consultation, and it will provide an invaluable instrument to all future governments in their control of the economy. 
It is worth mentioning that the Banking Act, which I suppose is really the model for the measure we are discussing now, was a sequel to an unsuccessful attempt by a Labor Government to nationalise the banks. It is accepted as conventional wisdom today that perhaps the ultimate weapon of nationalisation of the banks is no longer appropriate. However, I think that in the light of some events that have occurred in recent months consideration might have to be given to stronger measures in the control of the banking institutions. We had the disgraceful situation of lender of last resort facilities being available to the private banking sector but rather than swallow their pride and go to the Reserve Bank - if what the general manager of one of the private banks said or implied on television is to be believed - the banks went outside the Reserve Bank. Rather than use the lender of last resort facilities they borrowed elsewhere at higher rates of interest, probably at the expense of the other borrowers from the banks. If the banks are to behave in such an irresponsible fashion, certain sanctions will have to be considered by the Government. The ultimate weapon, of course, would be the direct nationalisation of the banking institutions. 
In conclusion, I support the Bill. I am pleased to note that the Opposition is generally supporting the Bill. I think the bipartisan attitude of the 2 sides on this measure shows that there is a difference as to whether governments get things done. We both agree with this measure. The Labor Government has done something about it. The Liberal and Country Parties, when they were in government, did nothing. 
I just want to make a few remarks. I have had a little to do with the subject that the House is discussing at the present time. I was a member of yet another of the committees that have visited the Northern Territory to have a look at the general question of the future of the Territory. I was a member of a sub-committee of the Australian Constitutional Convention which visited the Northern Territory earlier this year to examine the constitutional implications of moves by the Northern Territory towards selfgovernment and possibly eventually towards statehood. Before I come to the main thrust of my remarks, I would like to refer to a couple of remarks made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  when he opened on behalf of the Opposition. He referred to what he called the centralist policies of the Labor Government in never wanting to do anything to confer self-government upon the Northern Territory. I can only say that it is true that when I visited the Northern Territory there was criticism because of what was believed to be a lack of action by the Government in relation to moves towards self-government for the Northern Territory. The criticism of the Government's action is not one with which I would agree. I must say that the people in the Northern Territory were equally critical of previous Liberal-Country Party governments for what they believed to be a lack of any bona fide attempt to confer genuine self-government or statehood upon the Northern Territory. 
So let us not get the impression that any criticism of Canberra is levelled specifically at the Labor Government. It has been levelled not only at this Government but at previous Liberal-Country Party governments which for 23 years failed to do anything genuine about achieving statehood or self-government for the Territory. In fact, when I was in the Northern Territory I saw perhaps the clumsiest example of interference from Canberra. It came not from this Government but from the Country Party Opposition. The House may remember that last year a Bill dealing with abortion was debated in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. As it happened, a couple of Country Party members of the Council indicated their intention to vote for the Bill. Yet pressure was applied by the Leader of the Country Party in Canberra to try to persuade those members by the Country Party in the Legislative Council to vote against the Bill. I thought this intimidation and pressure was the clumsiest piece of interference from Canberra that was obvious during my visit to the Northern Territory. 
I can understand that members of the Country Party would object to what I have to say. 
I was only mentioning parenthetically that here was an example par excellence of clumsy, bureaucratic interference by the Country Party in Canberra in the affairs of their own members in the Northern Territory. 
I want to make a couple of points about this Bill and the implications of it. One of the things that the Committee of which I was a member did when it was in Darwin was to hear evidence from members of the Legislative Council about the future role of an autonomous local government in the Territory, lt caused me some degree of disquiet to hear the attitude of some of the elected members of the Legislative Council, because I fear that if their views are able to prevail in a future self-governing Northern Territory we might have a situation of tyranny by the majority of the minority in 2 particular respects. One has been referred to by previous speakers in this debate, and that is the relative rights of the mining interests and Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. One member of the Legislative Council who appeared before the committee seemed to take it upon himself to be the spokesman for the mining interests. I thought he made it abundantly clear that if there was to be a conflict of interest between the mining companies and the Aboriginal community, in his view the interests of the Aboriginal communities would have to come second. 
He said that the mines needed to be developed for the benefit of the Northern Territory. I questioned him about what would happen if there was a conflict of interests between the mining industry and the Aborigines, and his view was that perhaps the mining companies could put off going ahead with the mining for a few years, but then he went on to say that eventually the would have to go ahead with the mining irrespective of the interests of the Aboriginal communities. I believe that we cannot disregard the interests of the Aborigines so lightly. I believe that it is contact with European culture that is largely responsible for the condition of many of our Aboriginal fellow-Australians. I do not believe that if these sorts of views are allowed to prevail in a fully self-governing Northern Territory they will be in the interests of the Aboriginal communities or, in the long run, of the Australian nation as a whole. 
The other matter that concerned me was the matter of land acquisition referred to by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Another member of the Legislative Council - from memory I think it was  Dr Letts  - expressed concern about the rights of people who had had their property acquired by the Government in Canberra. He said that not sufficient concern had been shown for the landholders. What worries me is that nobody seemed to be speaking up for the rights of people who do not have any land, people who want to acquire, housing at reasonable cost in a town where land prices are excessively high. I believe that if we are to have autonomous local government in the Territory we will have to maintain some body which can speak on behalf of the people who are not able to speak for themselves as articulately as are the landholders and the mining companies. I believe that the views of the latter group are far too predominant in the Territory at the present time. 
Of course a government in the Northern Territory would have to be elected by the majority. We must have majority rule. But I urge the Government to look at the question of the rights of minority interests, because I fear that at the present stage of the political development of the Northern Territory we. might well find that people in tie underprivileged minorities will have their rights trampled upon. I am not talking about the minorities that try to tyrannise everybody else everywhere else in Australia. How we can get a compromise on this I am not certain, but one thing I would like to suggest is that consideration be given to having a system of proportional representation voting in the proposed Legislative Assembly, which I think would give a greater chance of guaranteeing a say for minority interests which have a very legitimate interest in the future of the Northern Territory. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield) (2.45&gt;- The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the election of a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. It is a part of the Government's promise to grant self government to the people of the Northern Territory by 1974. Today we have to look at the implications of such a decision and to ask ourselves what they are going to govern. Self government is not just a phrase that is plucked out of the air; in essence it means the handing over of responsibility for the administration of some sections of government in the Northern Territory. It would have been better if the people of the Northern Territory had known before the election takes place for the proposed Legislative Assembly on 24 October what the task of the new Assembly would be. 
One can imagine the embarrassment that will occur at a political meeting if someone were to ask a candidate from the back of the hall what he is going to do when he is elected, and what his task will be when he is elected and the candidate were to say: T do not know. This matter is under examination.' It would be better - this may be a counsel of perfection - if it is known before the election is held what will be the duties of the people who are elected at that election. But unfortunately that is not so because the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  has made it clear that after the election in October he is going to approach the members of the newly-elected Legislative Assembly and they are going to sort out some of the problems as to the form of government they are going to administer. 
Everybody knows that self government is an eminently desirable thing. In this respect I remember a letter which the  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory wrote to the media of the Northern Territory to try to make the people there concentrate their attention on the problems of self government. With his usual perception he knew that if he asked the people of the Northern Territory whether they were in favour of motherhood they would say yes. Everyone knows that motherhood is a thing that is not easily arrived at, that it is bought at a price and that it is painful - or so we are told. 
He pointed out that the people of the Northern Territory have to realise that the self government to which they have looked with such hope and expectation is really going to be an additional duty and responsibility on them. Obviously the Chairman's letter was designed to get the people of the Northern Territory to concentrate on the responsibility as well as the opportunity. 
When the Minister discusses with the members of the newly-elected Legislative Assembly in October what they are going to govern, he is not going to have an easy task. These are some of the problems about which we ought to be thinking and about which I hope the Minister will be thinking. I repeat that if self government means anything it means the taking of decisions. About what would decisions have to be taken? Firstly, there is education. Surely the responsibility for the making of decisions about primary and secondary education must be an essential function of self government. I think that everybody would say: Yes, of course that must follow'. But when one faces up to the problem of how to attract and to keep fully qualified teachers in a teaching service one comes hard up against the problem of whether the teaching service ought to be run from Canberra or from the Northern Territory. The Department of Education was quite open about this matter when it gave evidence to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, lt said: 'Self government certainly is a good thing and, generally speaking, we believe in local involvement, but policy decisions about Northern Territory education ought to be made in Canberra.' Despite that we are promising self government to the Northern Territory. 
The same applies with respect to the field of health. If self government does not mean being responsible for the administration of health matters and for looking after the health of the citizens what does it mean? I suppose everybody would say that health is something that must come within self government, but when one comes to thinking about the problems of attracting doctors to a separate health service and of keeping them in it one comes hard up against the problem of making the administrative system work. Should the real responsibility for Aborigines rest with the Government in Canberra or with the self governing body in the Northern Territory? Many people say: "The Aborigines problem is too hard for us to handle and is too expensive for the Northern Territory to carry. It should be the responsibility of Canberra'. But approximately one-third of the people are of Aboriginal descent. Are these not going to be the responsibility of the self governing body? 
That would mean that there would be self government for two-thirds of the people and government from Canberra for the other onethird. 
What about the police force? The Government has decided that the police force should be run from Canberra; yet if one asks any citizen of the Northern Territory whether self government means anything he will certainly say that it means the taking of decisions about law and order in one's own area. What about mining? What is going to be done about the administration of a mining policy? It is said by some that self-government certainly is a good thing but the people of the Northern Territory must not have control of mining in the Northern Territory because that is a very awkward policy area. Does that mean that any decisions that have to bs made about how the resources of an area are to be developed and controlled can be better made in Canberra than in the Northern Territory? I am not expressing an opinion on that. All I am saying is that when the people of the Northern Territory heard about the granting of self government to the Northern Territory they thought that self government meant what it implies, but all of the departmental officers with whom I have had discussions have indicated to me that self government means everything except the administration of the area in which their department has a superior expertise. If self government means anything surely it means the administration of one's own affairs. 
There will have to be quasi-Ministers of some form in the Northern Territory. What kind of ministerial system can one have if one does not have a civil service for the local ministers to control? If self government means anything at all it means that inevitably there is going to be a separate civil service. That is a problem which bristles with the most frightening complications. Tf one asks the people of the Northern Territory whether they want self government they will say yes, but if one also asks them whether they want a separate civil service they say: 'Certainly not. We did not mean that'. They did not know that the gun was loaded. What kind of problem would be posed concerning the administration of land development? People say that if self government means anything it must mean control of the urban and rural land. Yet if one says to the people in Canberra whether they think that that ought to be so they will say that self government is splendid but it should not entail the control of the development of urban land. Apparently the people in Canberra think they are better fitted to make decisions about the way in which the city of Darwin should be developed. I am not saying that they are wrong. I am saying that we really have to think with extreme clarity and urgency about what is being talked about in this Bill. 
We will have to come to a decision on this matter by the end of October. The Minister will have to have discussions with the members of the newly-elected Legislative Assembly. He admits that he does not know what they are going to have to do. He intends then to clarify in his own mind how self-government will operate. He says - I pay him the tribute that he means it - that he hopes to have a report from the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory to give him guidance when he comes to making this decision. I have to tell him again - I gave this warning before when we were discussing the establishment of this Committee - that there is no hope of the Committee, in spite of the dedication of the members to their task, giving the Minister by the end of October the kind of report for which he is hungry. I can assure him that we will do the best we can. But no matter how hard we bend ourselves to the task there is no real expectation that we can do the job properly, as it ought to be done. 
The tragedy of the situation, although not of the Minister's making, is that we have gone into this matter of self government too jolly fast. We should have taken it more slowly. We should have said that we would give self government to the Northern Territory at a later date in order to give us time to think out the problems. As the position stands now, neither the Minister nor the Committee will be able to give the kind of guidance and wisdom that will be necessary. It may be that the Minister will say: T am sorry that I reestablished the Committee. I did not establish it initially; my predecessor did. I asked the Committee to give me guidance in relation to the number of members of the new Legislative Assembly and in relation to how the Territory is to be divided into electoral divisions.' The Minister has taken those 2 decisions out of the hands of the Committee and, having done that, obviously he has to take into his own hands the decision as to what form of self government the Northern Territory will have. 
I want to conclude on a word of caution. We really ought to think about this matter more as a parliament. I would have thought that in a case like this a good principle to follow would be to ask the citizen what he thinks. Before the luncheon suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  referred to a request made by  Mr Ward  when speaking to the Constitutional Convention on behalf of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory. In his submission to the Constitutional Convention  Mr Ward  said: 
A change of status in the constitution of a territory should be the subject of a referendum within the territory. . . . 
If this belief is as popular as it is said to be and if it is as wise as it is generally thought to be, one would have thought that there would be considerable benefit in asking the citizen what he thinks. Just to strengthen that point of view, I point out that the Committee heard evidence from  Mr West,  the Secretary of the Northern Territory branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, who came out categorically and flatfooted against the establishment of a separate Northern Territory civil service. He came out by implication against self government. He has just sent a telegram to the  Chairman  of the Committee from which I understand that a survey was made in April which indicates that only 41 per cent of the people in Darwin feel that the Northern Territory should be given self government in the next 5 years. Following on from that, it would not be a bad idea to ask the citizen what he thinks, whether he wants self government, because the propositions I have put to the House show that, although self government is an easy subject to talk about, it bristles with the most frightening problems when moves are made to put it into effect in the Territory. 
Those of us who know the Territory know the kinds of feelings that one can easily arouse. Wave the flag of self government in front of Territorians and they charge like a wounded bull. But when we are considering the problems of making it work month after month and year after year, paying for it themselves, it is a dreadful picture. The Legislative Councillors will be paid out of the pockets of the Territorians themselves and not out of Canberra's allowance. When these decisions are to be made, when it is spelled out what self government means to a Territorian, maybe it would not be a bad idea to ask him whether he wants self government. It may be that he will have one look at this machine that he is suddenly asked to drive, not from the back seat where he has been doing most of his work for years but in the front seat taking the responsibility, and decide that he would like to have a closer look at it. I am not saying that self government is a bad thing but I am saying that we ought to be thinking about it. We should have been thinking about it for years. From now on there has to be concentration of thought. I am told that nothing clarifies the thinking of a person more than the knowledge that he is to be hanged in the morning. The stage is being reached in the Northern Territory now where, although they are not going to be hanged, they will have the responsibility hung around their necks. 
I am not being critical of the Minister; I am not being critical of anybody. I am just stating the kind of position that we face and should have faced previously. I trust that the Minister is aware of the problems we are facing. I am sorry that he is being pushed by a time-table which in my opinion was fundamentally unwise although electorally attractive. That being the case, I want to assure him that the Committee which he has recently re-established will do its best to advise him on one of the most awkward problems that I think any Minister has ever had to face. I hope that the members of the Northern Territory Assembly, when they are elected, will also realise that self government is not just something about which to make speeches but something which creates infinite difficulty and pain before eventually it is made to work. It will come about not by shouting loudly from the rooftops, not simply by getting an easy column in the Northern Territory 'News' but only by people doing the kind of thinking which is needed to meet this kind of responsibility. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to a report of a meeting of primary producers held last weekend and sponsored by a body known as the National Action Group? Has he been able to ascertain whether this meeting called for the payment of $100m of other people's money to farmers through such benefits as superphosphate and petrol bounties? If that is the case, is the Treasurer prepared to impose a head tax of $8 on every man, woman and child in Australia to enable the wages and salaries of other Australians to be transferred to this sectional interest? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have any of the trading banks availed themselves of 'lender of last resort' facilities of the Reserve Bank during 1974. 
If so, what were the terms upon which such facilities were provided. 
Have any of the trading banks overcome a shortage of cash by other than borrowing from the Reserve Bank during 1974. 
If so, did the bank or banks obtain terms less favourable than those available from the Reserve Bank. 
-All the Opposition speakers so far seem to have made quite great play on what they regard as niggardliness by the Government. I think perhaps what speakers from that side said in the past ought to be quoted in this context. They said that there is no such thing as a free lunch. Yet the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has said quite a lot about how the previous Government paid all of the 36c a lb and the growers did not have to pay anything. The same thing was mouthed by the Honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  We just heard the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  saying that the Government is being pretty lousy in not providing enough to the wool growers. 
I think the first thing that ought to be said is that it is not a question of the Government providing anything. The Government does not have income as such; it is other people's money that we are talking about. When we talk about distributing money to wool growers or to anybody else we must always bear in mind, if we are to be responsible about this, that if we are to give a benefit to some group, such as wool growers, we must deny funds and deny buying power to some other section of the community. When the Government makes a decision to give a benefit to a certain section of the community, it is not giving away its own money; it is really making a collective decision on behalf of the community as to who will pay for what. I think that this is a matter which should be put in its prospective. 
Notwithstanding that, this measure is undoubtedly very generous to wool growers. There will be very significant short term benefits to wool growers. The main benefits of this measure are these: By means of the levy which will be imposed on wool growers, the Government will be enabled to ensure that 250c per kilo will be the reserve price of the Australian Wool Corporation. A sum of $ 150m will be provided by the Government to underwrite that floor price. What does that mean when compared with past support schemes for the wool industry, such as the one which had a reserve price of 36c per lb and which was mentioned previously? On my understanding, one can equilibrate the two by saying that the yield from greasy wool was about 60 per cent of the yield from an equivalent volume of clean wool. So 250c per kilo for clean wool is something of the order of 160c per kilo for greasy wool which, before metrication, comes down to 72c per lb greasy. According to my calculations, that is exactly double the 36c per lb which was the reserve price provided when the wool industry was going through its very bad slump a couple of years ago. It is true, of course, that there has been some inflation since that time; but I do not think anybody, even honourable members opposite, would assert that costs have increased to such an extent that they would fully offset this very generous increase to what I believe is double the price that was payable under the scheme brought in by the previous Government. 
A measure that would offset any increase in costs is, of course, the reduction of tariffs. We must remember that the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs which was brought in by this Government about a year ago must have significant benefits for the wool industry. I recall that a report produced some years ago by the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia indicated that the added costs to the wool industry which resulted from tariff protection would amount to something like 12 per cent. I suggest, therefore, that the tariff reduction does provide some offset against any increase in costs that may have occurred in the last couple of years. So, there is a very much greater benefit to the wool industry than honourable members opposite are prepared to concede. 
I know that this measure has been criticised, particularly in some sections of the Press, as being too generous and as meaning in the end a net loss to taxpayers. I must confess that I also had some fears that this would be the case, and I was becoming more apprehensive when I could see that the profits from the activities of the Corporation in the previous season were being eroded and it was starting to look as though the growers' contributions would also be eroded. However, I think that this situation has been changed considerably by the announcement in the last 24 hours of a devaluation of the Australian dollar. I think we must have a look at what the situation will "-e in the light of this devaluation. I have here a short report which came into my possession today. It was put out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In the context of the devaluation, under the heading * Wool ' the report states: 
In the present situation of a weak demand for wool and heavy purchases by the Australian Wool Corporation, the devaluation of the Australian dollar is likely to lead to the trade purchasing larger quantities of wool, rather than to an immediate rise in auction prices. Later in the season when it is expected that the demand will be firmer and that prices will rise above the AWC floor the impact of the devaluation can be expected to be reflected in even higher prices. The devaluation decision should reduce the quantity of wool which otherwise was estimated to be held by the Corporation at the end of the season. This means that the total gain in export income from wool would be greater than the increase in receipts by growers. 
I take that to mean that the growers themselves will already have received the benefit of thenown receipts by direct payment from the Wool Corporation. In the first instance, the devaluation should help the Corporation to clear a lot of its stocks- Then, later in the season, if the market becomes more buoyant, there should be a significant increase in the receipts of wool growers and a further increase in Australia's export income. I think this shows quite clearly that there will be a direct benefit to the wool growers. Of course, in the case of a devaluation, this applies to all sections of primary industry which export. 
Honourable members opposite, particularly members of the Country Party, are very quick to criticise this Government for any measure which they regard as inflationary. But I notice that they have come in very quickly to support the devaluation. I think this shows a curious double standard on the part of members of the Country Party because any impartial person must acknowledge that there is some inflationary impact in devaluation. Yet the Country Party has not criticised the Government for this policy action because it knows that it will mean a direct increase in the receipts of primary producers. Members of the Country Party are always the same; they are prepared to do anything to prevent other people from trying to compensate themselves for increased costs of living- such as workers receiving increased wages- but they do not say anything when it comes to their own sectional interests. We saw this demonstrated very lucidly and very starkly at the last Federal election. When the Leader of the Liberal Party said that he would control prices, the Leader of the Country Party made it quite clear that perishables- in other words, what his sectional interests produce- would be exempted, because if housewives were to pay less for their foodstuffs it would mean that his sectional interests would receive a lower income. The members of the Country Party were not going to have a bar of that. 
It should not be forgotten, therefore, that devaluation has the effect of increasing directly the receipts of primary producers who export. This is something that ought to be acknowledge by honourable members of the Opposition if they are to be honest about it. I am not saying that I personally do not support the Government's devaluation. In fact, I do support it. But the main reason why I support the devaluation announced by the Government is that it protects the import competing industries in Australia against what is a very abnormal international economic situation. There is a worldwide recession and other countries are faced with rising stocks of unsold goods. They are trying as hard as they can, aggressively, to push those goods in any market that they can find, and that includes Australia. That is a very good justification for the devaluation announced by the Government. 
I find the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England very difficult to understand. As far as I am concerned, what we want to do is to try to ease the liquidity situation in Australia, and this measure of course will do that. I cannot see any reason why the banks should lend money to the wool industry rather than anybody else. I cannot see why the banks should have to lend preferentially to the wool industry rather than to some other industry. I personally would like to see some money going from the banks to the housing industry because the signs indicate that a slackness will develop in that industry. I hope that the banks are able to lend money to the housing industry. Incidentally, this measure will enable that to happen, because this payment of $ 150m to the Wool Corporation will enable a substantial and very rapid increase in the liquidity situation of the trading banks. 
Presumably, as soon as the Corporation pays the growers, the growers- at least, those of them who do not put the money under the bed in a sock- will put the money into the bank. That will immediately improve the liquidity situation of the banks. I hope that then they will be able to increase their lending to the housing industry. Because of the multiplier effect, they will have available an amount considerably in excess of $150m. This is a very welcome side effect of this measure, because it will be injecting a considerable amount of liquidity into the economy and should help to overcome the liquidity squeeze with which we are faced. But I cannot understand why banks should be required specifically to lend to the wool industry. This was not explained by honourable members opposite. As far as I can see their objection to this measure is purely an ideological one. 
I am less certain about the effects of these measures on the industry in the long term. I am not talking about the taxpayers now; I am talking about the wool industry itself. If the price is 250c per kilo it will be because the interaction of supply and demand has determined that that is the price of wool. It will not be 250c per kilo because the sellers say that that is the price. It has to be remembered that there are substitutes for wool. They are not as good, but there are substitutes. It is all very well for us to say that the wool industry always will be there because it always has been there. Other countries might not necessarily see it in that way. For example, because of the protection that has been put up against wool in the United States, the wool industry has been of comparatively smaller importance in that country. In other words, what has happened in the United States is that wool has virtually been priced out of the market. 
We do require a viable wool industry. We want it to remain a good export earner for Australia. It is absolutely essential to us to have viable export industries if we are to import the capital equipment that we need for our continued economic welfare. To have a viable industry we must be responsive to the market. If we try to force the market we might not only encourage substitution but also discourage efficiency in the industry itself. The best way to ensure that there is a viable industry is to ensure that it becomes efficient. Whether the industry can do that while it is insulated from market forces I suppose only time will tell. 
However, I think that the measures which have been taken will provide significant benefits now. Devaluation itself will provide a substantial increase in our export earnings and will help the receipts of wool growers. The measure that has been used to advance money to the Australian Wool Corporation also will do something to increase the liquidity in the economy. The beneficial effects of that will be felt throughout Australia. 
-The world is going through very troubled times. In every industrialised country in the world we are being reminded of the fundamental weaknesses and contradictions of the capitalist system. The economic welfare of the system depends upon the decisions of individuals to invest or not to invest. From the point of view of the individual or the firm making it, the investment decision may be perfectly rational, but whether serving the interests of that individual or firm is also serving the interests of society as a whole is a matter of coincidence. The consequence is that society is faced with the immutable law that economies will go through successive cycles of boom and recession. This law is as immutable as Newton's law of gravity. 
At the present time, the economies of the nonsocialist world are undergoing recession. Australia, being a capitalist society, and a great trading nation as well, cannot completely insulate itself from what is happening in the rest of the world. What is happening in Australia today, with the severe problems of maintaining full employment and coping with inflation, is partly rooted in the national economy, but it is due more to the international situation. The mechanism of recession spreading from one country to another is not hard to detect. As one country goes into recession, its consumers buy less. Manufacturers find themselves with increasing stockpiles of unsold goods. They cannot sell them at home and their only recourse is to try to export them, even if they have to cut their prices to sell them on the export market. We know what is happening in the economies of Japan and Hong Kong. Is it any wonder that we are experiencing a huge inflow of low-priced imports from those countries? Like other countries, Australia also had a boom in 1973, and like other countries, we cannot escape the inevitable downturn which follows a boom. So as well as an international element, there is a national element. 
This is the genesis of our problem, and it is this diagnosis upon which the Budget strategy and the Government's long-term strategy are based. It is senseless and wrong to lay the blame on such measures as tariff decisions or the up-valuations of the Australian dollar. The tariff cuts and the revalutions of 1972 and 1973 were correct decisions at the time. The situation has changed, and so has the policy, as evidenced by last week's devaluation. This decision was a good one, but it does not make the earlier decisions to reduce tariffs and the revalue wrong. I reject the proposition that these earlier decisions are the cause of our present problems. The main cause of our problem is an international recession, and if we had not revalued or cut tariffs, our situation now would be only marginally different. That it is the world economy, rather than tariffs, which determines the level of imports was quite clearly shown in our experience last year. When tariffs were cut, the volume of imports was almost unchanged. Why? Because there was a world commodity boom, and the imports were unavailable. 
The same reasoning applies in the opposite situation today. Foreign manufacturers are looking to export markets such as Australia because they have nowhere else to go. Take the hypothetical example of a shirt coming into Australia at a landed price of $1, and the equivalent Australian price is $5. Supposing we had not cut tariffs or revalued, and the import cost $1.25 instead of $1. How much difference will that make to the competitiveness of the Australian producer? In fact, the foreign manufacturer, if necessary, might even be able to cut his final cost back to $1 from $1.25. This argument is of enormous importance in deciding what to do about it. In my opinion, some action is called for to protect employment in the short term, and I therefore support the devaluation and the temporary voluntary restraints in textile imports. But let us not delude ourselves that this is the long-term answer to our problems. We have to remember that if every country puts up barriers to trade, the result will be not more employment but less, and living standards not higher but lower. Based on this analysis, the strategy of the Budget and the long-term economic strategy of the Government are correct and should be supported by all Australians. The Government has a social goal and an economic goal, and the Budget strategy coincides with both. 
The objective is to incorporate a very much greater share of the economy in the Government sector, by transferring resources from the private sector to the public sector. The social aim is known, as it is to carry out this social aim for which the Labor Government has been elected on 2 occasions. The economic aim is equally important. It will mean that the much larger public sector can maintain planned and ongoing investment and welfare expenditures, and thereby reducing the vulnerability of the economy as a whole to the stops and starts of international capitalism. It also means that the residual private sector will be more efficient, and operating in those areas where Australia has comparative advantages over other countries. This means that in future world economic downturns we will not be damaged by imports, and we will not have to take restrictive action which is so damaging to other countries in return. 
I find it very difficult to understand the objections which have been raised to the planned expansion of the Government sector. May I make 4 comments on this matter? Firstly, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr 
Anthony) has described this strategy as socialism, and presumably this is meant to say that it must therefore be wrong. He can call it socialism, or anything he likes for all I care, but he should have some regard to what is in the Government programs. There is a huge increase in outlays on education, a large outlay on public hospitals, and more funds for welfare housing. Is more education socialism? Are public hospitals socialism? Are higher pensions socialism? For that matter, the Leader of the Country Party could tell us whether he regards a bounty on nitrogenous fertiliser as socialism? If he does, the public has a right to know whether he regards this form of socialism as evil. 
The second point is that the Opposition has soundly condemned the planned increase in Government expenditure, but it is not prepared to indicate one single item of expenditure which it would cut. I invite honourable members to scan the long amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to see whether there is one single item of expenditure which is claimed to be excessive. They will search in vain. Opposition members will have a further chance to vote for a reduction or a deferment of expenditure when the Estimates come up for each department. But they will again be lacking in the courage or the conviction to do so. The Opposition should put up or shut up. 
Thirdly, the Opposition has invoked the old Tory argument that only the private sector generates real wealth, and that the Government somehow lives off the fat created by private enterprise. I challenge the Opposition to name one respectable economist or even one respectable argument in support of this assertion, because that is all it is, an unsubstantiated assertion. If this argument were taken to its logical conclusion, it would follow that those socialist countries with no private sector at all would have no wealth, no production at all, and no consumption at all. 
Fourthly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the size of the public sector in Australia as suggested by taxation, is lower than in many other countries. Honourable members will have just received a Treasury paper on taxation containing a table which shows that, of 23 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries studied, Australia's percentage of taxation to gross national product is the tenth highest if social security contributions are excluded and, if they are included, Australia ranks eighteenth in 23 countries. I ask for leave to incorporate the table in Hansard. 
I do not think that anybody takes very seriously the Freudian allusions of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who speaks on the adjournment debate night after night on communist penetration. Tonight I want to say something on the subject of inflation. I am prompted to do so by 2 pronouncements which were made today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  One was a personal explanation made by the right honourable gentleman after question time on the subject of education and the other was a letter which the right honourable gentleman wrote to the editor of the Melbourne 'Herald' and which was published this evening. We have heard frequent criticism from the Opposition of inflation in Australia which this Government is alleged to have caused. In view of the criticism we are receiving I think it behoves everyone in this country to have a look at what are in actual fact the policies of the Opposition. 
In particular we are told that the Government must reduce government expenditure. We are told that this would have a very high priority in the policies of a Liberal-Country Party Government. Therefore we must ask ourselves what the Opposition would do if it were in government. If we look at the Opposition's record we see that every anti-inflationary measure which this Government has taken has been criticised by our political opponents. I suppose it might be pretty good politics to do that and I suppose that we cannot blame the Opposition for making the best out of a political situation. But if we are asked to consider seriously the Opposition Parties as the alternative government of this country I think that we ought to have a good look at how responsibly a Liberal-Country Party government would apply itself in the field of anti-inflationary policy. If we have a look at what this Government has done we find that nearly every anti-inflationary action taken by it has been vigorously opposed by the Opposition. In fact the Opposition has not put forward one constructive anti-inflationary proposal over and above that which has been proposed and espoused by this Government. 
Let us look first at education. For all its talk about cutting expenditure the Opposition has now said that it would not cut one red cent in education expenditure, a field in which there has been a very large increase in expenditure- a record increase- by this Government. During question time this morning the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Any attempt to say that a Liberal-Country Party government would cut education spending is malicious rumourmongering. 
So there would be no cuts in education expenditure by a Liberal-Country Party government. Where would a Liberal-Country Party government cut expenditure? I believe that it would repeal the surtax on unearned income. I suppose that the deduction from taxable income for education expenses would be reinstated to $400 by the next Liberal-Country Party government. 
The Opposition would expand defence expenditure on a mighty scale. I suppose that we will have the destroyers built in Australia instead of having the patrol frigates which are being constructed partly overseas for this Government. I would remind honourable members that expenditure on such items overseas is not inflationary whereas domestic expenditure is. We have been chastised by the Opposition for starving the State governments. Presumably a Liberal-Country Party government would give the State governments everything they asked for and more. The superphosphate bounty would immediately be restored. No questions would be asked. The matter would not be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
How will all of this expenditure be met? An amendment to the Budget was moved on behalf of the Opposition. Part of it claimed that the Government did not recognise the absudity that one cannot spend money without people paying. But how is the Opposition going to provide all of the money that it would spend- much more than is being spent by this Government? It is to be provided by a taxation reduction of $ 1,000m or, if we believe the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  a cut in income tax of $1,800. A Liberal-Country Party government would have no surtax on property income. It would restore all the taxation deduction perks. We would cut income tax by $ 1,000m. It would reduce sales tax. It looks as though we would not have any taxation at aU. What a marvellous policy. I suppose Opposition members think that everyone in Australia would vote for a policy like that. It just sounds so marvellous. Superficially, I suppose, it does sound very attractive. Why have any taxation at all? Why not pay for everything just by printing more money? 
I suggest to the Australian people that they ought to look at the Opposition's POliCy very hard because, whilst it may be a superficially attractive policy, it is a POliCY of funny money. If the Opposition was allowed to put its policies into operation we would be faced with just a mass of worthless paper. What we are being asked to support is a policy of bringing in whole barrow loads of Snedden funny money. The Opposition has said that wage restraint should be practised. What is the Opposition 's policy on restraining wages? The Government has now instigated a policy of holding round table conferences between employers and employees. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Agriculture I would like to congratulate the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  for the fine job he is doing in implementing the Government's policy on primary industry. I think every Australian is behind the Minister in the difficult negotiations that lie ahead on the subject of meat. As has been already discussed in the debate on the matter of public importance this morning, the meat industry faces very serious difficulties. The Minister for Agriculture has indicated his earnest intention to do everything that can be done to support the industry in the difficult times that lie ahead. 
The meat industry problems at the present time are not, of course, due to anything that the Government has done, they are due entirely to world conditions and to circumstances quite beyond the control of the present Government. But I think it is worth pointing out that if a LiberalCountry Party government had been elected to office last May then meat prices no doubt would have fallen due to deliberate Government policy. It is worth remembering the completely hypocritical attitude of the Liberal Party in particular in this matter. Before the last election the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  was advertising on radio, saying something like this: 'Meat prices are very high. You can do one of 3 things. You can eat less, you can pay more for your meat or you can vote Liberal. ' So it is quite clear that the intention of the Liberal Party anyway quite deliberately was to bankrupt the meat industry by bringing meat prices down. 
I pointed out at the time, and the Adelaide Press was good enough to point out, that other people, particularly the Country Party, would not tolerate any policy which allowed meat prices to go down because, although housewives were paying higher prices for the meat, the corollary was that somebody was receiving higher prices for the meat. Sure enough, before the election a few days later the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said: 'We are all for freezing the price of commodities but, of course, this could not possibly apply to perishable goods. ' So the attitude of the Leader of the Liberal Party was completely hypocritical. If he meant what he said, all he would have done would have been to bankrupt the meat industry completely. 
In congratulating the Minister for Agriculture I should particularly like to remind the House of the fine effort he has made in getting under way a further 5-year wheat stabilisation plan. My main reason for referring to that plan is that I should like to suggest to the House that similar proposals be implemented in the case of the wool industry. Honourable members will recall that quite recently the Government provided a loan of $ 150m to the Australian Wool Corporation to give support to the wool industry. It is rather ironic that none of the protesting national farmers groups have had the grace to acknowledge the substantial assistance that has been provided to the wool industry, but I suppose we cannot expect too much from that direction. I would certainly like to give credit to .the Minister and to congratulate the Government on this generous assistance that was provided to the wool industry. Apart from the support that it will give to the wool industry itself, it will have very beneficial effects on the whole of the economy by increasing liquidity in general. However, I would like to suggest a modification to the other part of the proposal to provide price support for wool to the average level of 250c per kilogram. 
I suggest that the same sort of proposals as are being implemented for the wheat industry be implemented for the wool industry; in other words, instead of providing a flat floor price, advance payments be made from the sales realised by the Australian Wool Corporation and that the balance be paid to the growers after the final sales have been completed, whether the sales are by auction, by direct selling, by treaty or however they be. I do see problems in having a flat floor price for wool. I see the proposal as being fraught with 2 great dangers. Firstly, there is the danger of substitution. We must remember that there are substitutes for wool. Secondly, if we have a flat floor price and we try to insulate the wool industry from market forces, I believe that we will be promoting and perpetuating inefficiency in the wool industry, which is something this country cannot afford. 
I think that we must ask ourselves what is the purpose of having a floor price of 250c per kilogram and whether it fits in with the general context of agricultural policy. In my view our agricultural policy should have 3 aims: Firstly, to provide food and natural fibres for Australians; secondly, to provide agricultural commodities for the rest of the world, especially for the underprivileged two-thirds of the world; and thirdly, to provide foreign exchange at minimal cost. If we are to have this support for the wool industry and we are to satisfy those criteria, the modifications I have suggested should be examined fairly closely by the Government. In the context of Government policy it is in Australia's interests to build up a very powerful and efficient wool industry. I make no secret of the fact that the Government's objective is to transfer some of the resources from the private sector to the public sector to provide those goods and services of which we have been starved for so many years and to improve the quality of life of all Australians. To do that and to be able to continue our trade I believe that it is absolutely essential to have our private sector running at maximum efficiency and competitiveness. Particularly fundamental to that are economic and efficient export industries. 
In the case of wool we have to ask ourselves whether a fixed floor price is really going to promote efficiency in the industry. Frankly I doubt whether we can make any industry efficient by isolating it from market forces. The other problem, as I mentioned earlier, is the problem of substitution and of whether we might in fact price ourselves out of the market if we try to force the market. We must bear in mind that just because we say that the price of wool is such and such does not mean that the buyers are going to accept that that is the price. I would like to draw the attention of the House to an article which appeared in the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economies' in July 1970. It refers to the result that has been experienced in the United States of America of an artificially high wool price. In that case the artificially high wool price was induced by import duties imposed on wool imported into that country. The effect of that has been to make wool relatively uneconomic. In the long term, the result has been to make the synthetic fibre industry more competitive. I would like to quote a couple of brief extracts from the article: 
The higher domestic price resulting from the imposition of this duty has tended to reduce US raw apparel wool consumption and it has weakened the overall competitive position of wool on the fibre market of the United States. 
Later the article goes on to say: 
The raw wool tariff, however, appears as a significant factor in the US wool textile manufacturer's increasing use of man-made fibres and is believed to have contributed to some extent to wool's diminishing importance vis-a-vis man-made fibres on the wool type fibre market of the United States. 
What does worry me is that by trying to force the market we might find ourselves in the same position. I strongly support the Government's proposal to provide long term assistance to the wool industry. No matter what side of the political fence one comes from, I think it is important to have an efficient wool industry, but I do think that if maximum benefit is to be derived from the money which is being outlaid the scheme will require some modification. I suggest that the money which is being provided should be provided in the first instance for advance payments to the growers, and that when all the funds are realised subsequently from the sale of the wool the balance should be paid to the wool growers. I think that that would be of benefit not only to the wool industry itself but also the long term health of the Australian economy. 
I wish to make about four suggestions to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  in relation to the Government's housing policy. The first relates to the proposal foreshadowed in the Budget of making the interest component of home mortgage repayments deductible from taxable income. This proposal has the potential of making home purchase more accessible to people on relatively low incomes. One of the more unfortunate effects of the increased interest rates which have occurred over the last year has been to make buying homes very difficult for people on low incomes. If their incomes are low enough to qualify them for money under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement that is well and good but over and above this particular income level it can be difficult until a person gets into very high income levels. For instance, if a person's weekly earnings are less than 85 per cent of the national average that person and his family are eligible for a public authority- a housing trust or housing commission- home at an interest rate of  4V*  per cent. If the income is above that but below 95 per cent of average weekly earnings money is available through the home builders account for 5% per cent. That also is subsidised interest money. Above that income level of 95 per cent people do not qualify. People who are only just over that level find it difficult, with present increased interest rates, to get housing loans at all until they reach an income level of about $200 a week. 
As I understand the present situation a person requires an income of about $ 10 a week for each $1,000 of loan. Before interest rates were increased about a year ago it was possible for a person to obtain a home loan equivalent to about times his annual salary or wage but since interest rates increased that ratio is now only twice. With the forthcoming introduction of tax deductibility of interest payments there is great potential for increasing the availability of private home purchase to people on relatively low incomes. If this proposal can be introduced as soon as possible it has the potential of reducing the effective interest rate to something like 2 per cent or 3 per cent. This will increase the capacity of people on lower incomes to service the interest repayments on their homes. It will surely make it more possible and easy for lending institutions to lend to people on relatively low incomes. The ideal way of implementing the proposal would be to make the tax deductibility deductible from pay-as-you-earn income tax but I understand this is not feasible. The Commissioner of Taxation advises that this cannot be done. If this cannot be done I would like to see the proposal modified so that an arrangement can be made with the lending institutions, building societies and banks whereby payments can be varied at different times of the year. At one time a lower level of interest and home repayment might be made- say $100 a month- and later when income tax refunds are paid the payment could be $200. If this could be done I believe it would be possible for people on relatively low incomes to finance the purchase of homes. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out the great potential benefit which will be made possible by the proposed tax deductibility of the interest component of housing loans. I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  to negotiate with the lending institutions to schedule home repayments to take maximum advantage of this proposal. The tax deduction on interest will come at the end of the financial year. I suggest that the monthly repayments be made smaller and that there be a single larger repayment in the months when the tax refund is made. This will enable those workers on relatively low incomes to meet the repayments on their loans, and home ownership will be brought well within their reach. 
The second suggestion I make is to ensure that no retrenchments or any run down occurs in the various industries supplying building materials. I think it would be a relatively inexpensive and very economic proposition for the Government to consider subsidising the interest rate on overdrafts if any of these building materials firms find themselves having to carry excess stocks. There is nothing surer than that the demand for those stocks will rise again and I believe it will be sooner rather than later because Australians will always want houses. If we can do that, we will not only be able to avoid retrenchments but I hope early next year when demand starts to pick up again we will not find ourselves again running into a lot of shortages. We should take advantage of this situation to ensure that stocks do not run down. 
The next suggestion I make is in respect to the Government's retraining scheme. I should like it borne in mind that the building industry is an industry which has a very large capacity for absorbing a great part of the Australian workforce. It is not an unpleasant industry in which to work compared with the standards which many other Australian workers have to endure. I think this is something that could be given a great deal of attention. Of course there has been some reluctance on the part of some people already engaged in the industry and I do not in any way blame the building unions for their apprehension on this matter. I should not like to see anything happen which will reduce the job security of those people already employed in the industry. We could make this a completely different ball game if we provided for permanency within the building industry. I should like to see an authority similar to the Stevedoring Industry Authority established in the building industry which would provide job security for all building workers. If this were to happen we would find that any government expressing its hope in the future of the building industry would be ensuring not fewer jobs in the building industry but more. 
The fourth suggestion I make is in relation to aged persons housing. Only part of this matter comes under the portfolio of the Minister for Housing and Construction but I urge that we go ahead as expeditiously as possible in the construction of home units for elderly persons. We have to remember that many elderly people in Australia who occupy a full sized house no longer need it. It is too large for their requirements. When their children grow up, get married and leave home the elderly people cannot cope with a full sized house and would be quite happy to have accommodation in a unit. If they have a house to sell or to vacate when occupying the unit we would be providing further accommodation for a family unit. This amounts to providing accommodation for a family at the cost in money and resources of a home unit. I believe this is a very economic proposition and I ask that consideration be given to it. 
I am pleased that interest rates in general are now starting to come down. I believe this will be of very great benefit to home buyers and will make easier the task of the Minister who is doing a very good job under very difficult conditions. I reject the claim that has been made by Opposition spokesmen that today's problems are the fault of this Minister. When the present Minister became the Minister for Housing and Construction the previous Government already had sown the seeds of the property boom which took place in 1973. This is what the Minister and the Government inherited and I strongly support the Minister's initiatives in overcoming these problems which are not of his own making. 
Progress reported. 
It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  discuss the appointments of - 
Yes, I know. The honourable member for Kennedy said that these appointments allegedly lower the morale of the Public Service. I did not intend to speak on this subject, but before turning to the matter on which I rose to speak I think it is worth bearing in mind the large number of appointments that were made by a succession of Liberal-Country Party governments. .  Mr Collard-  Could you enumerate them? 
I could enumerate them but I would heed about an hour and a half to speak instead of the 10 minutes which is available to me. 
 I have been in this House for 5 years and I can remember what happened about a week after I was first elected. At that time 2 obviously political appointments were made. There was the appointment of  Mr Gordon  Freeth, who had been defeated at an election, as Australia's Ambassador to Japan. I do not want to cast any reflection on  Mr Gordon  Freeth as Australia's diplomatic, representative in Japan. But if honourable members opposite want to talk about appointing diplomatic representatives I think they should be reminded of the appointment of  Mr Freeth. Mr Chaney  was also defeated in the 1969 election. He was appointed as the Administrator of the Northern Territory. Surely if we are to apply the same yardstick we would have to say that those appointments caused very severe damage to the morale of the Public Service. 
I recall that  Sir Alec  Downer from my own State of South Australia was appointed as Australia's High Commissioner in London. I would not quibble about the role he played and I believe that he did an excellent job. Nevertheless, his appointment was a direct political one. Perhaps the most overt political appointment of the lot was the appointment of the present Chief Justice of the High Court, who was becoming a threat to the then Prime Minister, who felt that his own position was in jeopardy. He also responded to a threat to his own position by promoting sidewards those who threatened him or by kicking them upstairs- percussive sublimation as I think it is sometimes referred to. I remember the former honourable member for 
Riverina,  Mr Roberton,  who was appointed as Australia's Ambassador to Ireland. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  was sitting in the House a few minutes ago. Perhaps he does not have any taste for criticism of the former Government. I notice that he has now withdrawn from the chamber. Perhaps he has some business elsewhere. As I have said, the examples of political appointments by previous governments are too numerous to cover at this stage. There was  Sir Howard  Beale and  Mr Roger  Dean, who I believe was also appointed as Administrator to the Northern Territory. 
As my friend the honourable member for Hunter reminds me  Mr Roger  Dean was also appointed to San Francisco. I suppose the most recent example was the appointment of Dame Annabelle Rankin as High Commissioner to New Zealand. 
The reason I rose to speak to the House was to raise a matter which I regard as being of considerable importance and on which I believe it is within the power of the Australian Government to take appropriate remedial action. I refer to the very unfortunate and very dangerous practice of the sale to children of chocolates which are packaged to resemble cigarettes and which are put in packets which look like very authentic replicas of the most commonly sold brands of cigarettes. I do not think I can do better than to quote from a letter which was written to the editor of the Adelaide 'Advertiser' last week. The letter states: 
We bring to the notice of all concerned with the well-being of children the insidious encouragement to smoke by the presentation of chocolate lollies in a seemingly authentic cigarette wrapping and box. 
In an interview on Channel 2's 'This Day Tonight' (21.10.74) with the headmistress and children of the Magill Infant Demonstration School the variety and number of simulated cigarettes available were shown. 
The letter went on to state: 
Our headmistress . . . and the Mothers' Club are concerned that such immoral, unethical and insidious advertising should be levelled at young children. The power of advertising was highlighted by the interviewer's report that the children showed preference for one brand of chocolate because of its association with the catchy TV and radio commercials for that brand of cigarette. 
I have no doubt that the honourable member for Wannon regards this matter as amusing, but I think this is a particularly pernicious practice. The letter continues: 
We are aware that children are happy to copy adults, and it is therefore to be expected that the pleasant chocolate flavour of the simulated cigarettes would not only confound the warnings that 'smoking is a health hazard' but prove a very subtle indoctrination at their most receptive age. 
The reason I have raised this in the Federal Parliament is that my understanding of the situation is that most of these chocolate simulated cigarettes are imported and therefore this is a matter on which this Government could take very appropriate remedial action and very prompt action. I do not think it would bring up any cries of centralism from any parochial minded State governments, but even if it were to do so I think this action would be justified, and certainly justified as a matter of urgency. I think it is a simply appalling situation that such blatant encouragement of young people to take up or copy the practice of smoking should occur. As the Government has power to prevent this practice by putting a total import embargo on this product, I would suggest that this action be taken by the Government at the earliest opportunity. I hope that the responsible Minister who is in another place can take very prompt action because I am sure that this is causing concern to a very large number of parents in Australia. The Government is concerned to do everything it can to discourage people from taking up smoking. There is conflicting evidence in respect of which many people argue about the effectiveness of these various anti-smoking campaigns. But surely to goodness we should not be allowing anything like this to go on. It is directly encouraging people to take up this habit or to regard the habit of smoking by adults as something that children should emulate. I hope that the Government will take the appropriate action on this at the earliest possible opportunity. 
-Before saying what I intended to say I would just like to respond to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  I think that perhaps those following the debate might not be aware of the fact that we are discussing an amendment moved by the honourable member for Moreton that will not only amend the Bill before the chamber but will also amend the original Act. What the honourable member for Moreton is proposing is that sub-sections (3) (c) and (3) (d) of section 16 of the principal Act be omitted from the Act. The honourable member for Bendigo is saying that these sub-sections must be taken out of the Act because if they were allowed to remain they would constitute nationalisation and socialisation of the commercial television industry. I would personally not be opposed to the nationalisation and socialisation of the television industry. I would like to see nothing more than all the communications industry placed in the power of the people of Australia and not in the hands of a few private monopolists. 
But the point is that these sub-sections were put in the Act by a Liberal-Country Party Government. They have been in the Act for many years. If this is the case how can the honourable member support the proposition that it is a socialist measure? What is proposed under the amendment of the honourable member for Moreton is that these measures which have been in the Act for many years and which were put there by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government should now be taken out of the Act. How can the Opposition therefore validly assert that the Government is trying to insert a socialist measure into the Act? I ask the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  to look very carefully at the amendments put forward by the honourable member for Moreton because I believe that under what might be a legitimate smokescreen, a prima facie legitimate measure, to provide parliamentary scrutiny for the operation of the Authority, we have really a diabolical attempt not only to emasculate completely the Bill before the Committee but also to emasculate the already rather weak Broadcasting and Television Act that has been in force in this country for many years. 
What he is proposing to do is to give an unrepresentative handful of individuals completely undiluted power over the air waves. The amendment proposed by the honourable member for Moreton seeks to take out of the Act sub-section (3) (c) whereby the Authority has power to determine the hours during which programs may be broadcast or televised and sub-section ( 3 ) ( d ) whereby the Authority shall have power to determine the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licensees. The Opposition's amendment seeks to delete from the Act that power of the Board, or the Authority as it will become. 
The honourable member for Moreton has tried to persuade us to the view that all would be well if we accepted his subsequent amendment. I suppose,  Mr Chairman,  it would be in order for me to refer to other foreshadowed amendments of the honourable member for Moreton because I think they are important. The honourable member has tried to tell us that this matter will be adequately covered under regulations which will subsequently be put down. But if we have a look at the subsequent regulations suggested by the honourable member for Moreton we find that he has not suggested that these regulations will provide for directions to be made by the Authority on determining the hours during which programs may be broadcast or televised, or to determine the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licensees. The honourable member for Moreton does not talk about directions on hours or about programs in his foreshadowed amendment to clause 6. He refers to times when certain programs may be televised. He talks about directions with respect to matters affecting certain things. I ask the honourable member for Moreton where in his proposals he gives the Authority or anybody powers to make regulations to set down standards under which the commercial television stations will operate. I put it to the Committee and to the honourable member for Moreton that nowhere in the foreshadowed amendments is any power set out whereby the Broadcasting Authority can lay down standards for commercial television stations. 
The honourable member for Moreton has also foreshadowed an amendment to clause 16 to insert new clause 16a. He wants to insert the following sub-section ( 1a): 
The Regulations empowering the giving of a direction referred to in paragraph 1 (ca) shall prescribe the criteria to be observed by the Authority . . . 
That is the only mention of the word 'criteria'. I would suggest that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Moreton is designed to take specific powers away from the Authority that have been there for many years. Although he has told us that he proposes to provide for these powers to be reinstated but with parliamentary scrutiny, I believe that if we examine the wording of the foreshadowed amendments it will be seen that there will not be any valid powers that will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. I believe all that one would find is confusion and obfuscation. 
I ask the honourable member for Moreton again to say where in his foreshadowed amendments the Authority will have the power to direct rules and standards. This is a matter of very great importance. We are discussing the power to regulate television advertising, particularly the type of advertising that takes place during children's programs. We are also discussing the power to regulate the degree and amount of violence which might occur during children's programs. I think that this is something of critical importance. I am disappointed that a lot of people regard this matter very cynically. Many people say that the Liberal Party is in the pockets of the people who control the media. I believe that the evidence here is quite specific. 
The Opposition it trying to emasculate this legislation just as we have seen the Opposition in the Senate trying to emasculate completely the 
Australian Film Commission Bill which is a similar measure to enable proper and responsible programs to be produced for the benefit of Australian children. Only yesterday I was discussing this proposed measure with a local association of school welfare clubs of various primary schools in my electorate and the neighbouring electorate of Barker. Regrettably the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  who was approached by that association declined to make any response to it. But in response to a letter I arranged to meet the school welfare clubs for a discussion and an exchange of views on the question of children's television, particularly in regard to the advertising that takes place. At the meeting yesterday I pointed out the need for control over advertising. The powers in the Act at the moment are not very specific and therefore we are trying to strengthen them. I told the women representing the welfare clubs not to underestimate the power of commercial television operators to put pressure on certain people to prevent teeth being put into this legislation. I feel vindicated in being able to come here today and to point out what the honourable member for Moreton is trying to put over us. To take a charitable view, it is possible, of course, that he is only making an innocent mistake. If that be the case we might be able to find some suitable formula for bis amendments. But I am disappointed to see time and again the Liberal Party coming in and supporting the vested interests and people who control the media because after all the air waves should belong to all the people of Australia. 
It always surprises me to hear the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  express the view, which he seems to hold, that no intelligent person could possibly hold a view which is not consonant with his own. 
I would like to remind the honourable member that some times I think there are people in his own Party who do not altogether hold views which are totally in agreement with his. I believe that the crux of the matter with which the honourable member was dealing during his speech was that the ministerial powers which the Government had in the Bill which was presented to the Senate and which are sought to be re-inserted with the approval of the House of Representatives should be applied only to those matters relating to Film Australia. These powers have been present for many years under both Labor governments and Liberal governments. I think this is really a most important point and I think it is significant that the honourable gentleman from Moreton did not refer to that fact at all during the whole course of his address to the House. 
I believe that this Bill should be supported by every Australian. It will provide a great deal of support in most areas of the film industry. The Film Commission will continue the policies and consolidate the activities of the Australian Film Development Corporation and it will incorporate the activities of Film Australia, which was previously known as the Commonwealth Film Unit. However, the Commission will go beyond the production and promotion of Australian films because, as the Tariff Board pointed out in its report brought down in the Parliament last year, it is not sufficient just to look at the question of promotion and production of Australian films. Other areas must be examined so that the industry is looked at as a whole. In particular, the distribution of films must be examined. One of the findings of the Tariff Board as a result of its very good investigation into the film industry was that there was difficulty in ensuring adequate access to proper distribution outlets for Australian produced films. If the House will bear with me, I would like to read a couple of paragraphs from the Tariff Board's report because I do think they are fairly important. In its report the Tariff Board said: 
There appears to be no independent Australian distributor or overseas distribution company which has both the experience and the finance necessary to provide this service. 
That relates to proper distribution of Australian films. The report continues: 
A considerable volume of evidence on this subject was presented by both the producers and distributors of Australian films. This showed that in most cases the Australian film has encountered difficulties in securing satisfactory handling in regard to contract terms, publicity and exhibition locations. The distribution arrangements for films such as Stork, Country Town, The Adventures of Barry McKenzie and Nickel Queen were examined in an attempt to assess the suitability of various methods for the marketing of Australian films. It was found that the best returns had been obtained when a producer distributed his own film. 
The fundamental requirement on the distribution side is to ensure that Australian films are made available to exhibition houses on terms not less favourable to the local producer than those applying to overseas films. To ensure this, the Board believes that it is necessary to provide a publicly owned organisation to help Australian producers make satisfactory distribution arrangements for their films and, if necessary, to provide them with complete distribution facilities. 
That is a very important consideration. The Bill we are now discussing represents the embodiment of the recommendations which came out of the Tariff Board, as it then was, relating to the distribution of Australian films. I have another short quote that I wish to make from the report: 
Evidence was presented to the Board by both distributors and producers on the number of local films which have been financed or distributed by overseas companies. In only a very few cases was the production of the local film wholly or partly financed by the overseas distributor. Adam's Woman, Age of Consent, Squeeze a Flower and They're a Weird Mob fall into this category. 
By the large, in contrast to the activities of film distributors overseas, the overseas distributors operating in Australia have provided very little promotional assistance to the Australian film industry. This is something that will be done by this public authority being established by the Government. I think that the attitude of the Senate conservative Opposition in this case is a very good example of the attitude that has justly attracted criticism of it since the Labor Government has been in office. Its actions smack very much of opposition for the sake of opposition and obstruction for no other reason than that the measures were being introduced by a Labor Government. 
We saw the same thing happen last week when the House was debating the Broadcasting and Television Bill. The Opposition in this place sought to take away from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board certain of the powers that it has had for many years. I understand that it will try to do the same thing when the Bill comes before the Senate. They were powers that the previous Government had for many years. They relate particularly to cases in which the Board could direct television stations in the matter of hours of screening certain programs and in relation to advertising powers that the Board has always had. The Opposition wants to take away these powers, even though when it was in government it had these powers for many years. We have exactly the same sort of thing happening now in relation to the Australian Film Commission Bill. The Minister has had a power to direct what sort of films would be produced by Film Australia or by its predecessor, the Commonwealth Film Unit. This is something that has been in the Act for many years. Now, the Senate opposition has taken away this power from the Minister. I uphold very strongly the right, indeed the responsibility of the Minister to direct Film Australia to produce films in the Australian national interest, films of an educational nature. 
I have an example with which I have been personally involved.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you probably know I have had a very great and active interest in fostering the school dental service which has been one of the great achievements of the Whitlam Labor Government. One of the means by which the educational side of the school dental service was to be fostered was by the production of films. I have had representations made to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  through the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  on this matter to try to get some decent educational films made to publicise the school dental service, to educate people and give them an awareness of the need for proper dental hygiene and preventive care of the teeth. Surely in a case like this- it is an absolutely unanswerable case- the Minister should have the power to ensure that these films are produced by Film Australia. If the Opposition's views on this matter are upheld by the Parliament, the Minister will no longer have those powers which he has had for many years. 
We would like to see Film Australia produce good pro-social films for showing in children's television programs. I think most honourable members would agree that the quality of children's television programs is not all that it ought to be. Surely, it is necessary to produce good prosocial programs with an Australian content which can be shown during children's viewing times. I know that it has been asserted that it would be undemocratic for the Minister to have this power to direct Film Australia. Apart from the point I have made already, that the power has been there for many years, the Government wants to provide even additional safeguards. It agreed to an amendment moved in the Senate which provided for parliamentary scrutiny. It provided that any directions given by the Minister could be disallowed within 1 S days after their tabling by either House of the Parliament. Another area in which there seems to be needless obstruction by the Senate is that in which it tried to have Film Australia productions removed from the quota for short Australian films to be shown by exhibitors and cinema operators. I think it is worth pointing out- I do not think this has been made clear in the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)that  there was no compulsion on cinema operators to include Film Australia productions in their showings or to meet the Australian quota. All it meant was that they had to meet a certain quota of Australian produced films. They could count Film Australia productions in that selection of films to meet the quota. But the amendment proposed originally by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in the Senate endeavoured to take this out of the Bill so that Film Australia productions would have the same status as foreign films and there would be no quota requirements applying to them. 
Worse still, because the Senate Opposition did not have the numbers to have this pernicious amendment passed, it sulked and would not allow the appropriate clause to be passed at all. So the original clause 10 of the Bill has been deleted and now there are no Australian content quota requirements applying in regard to Film Australia films as short Australian films. I think that the people of Australia ought to know where the Senate Opposition stands on this matter. The 
Senate Opposition has a consistent policy of obstruction. It has a strict policy of opposing the development of Australian films. I do not want to apply these criticisms to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who played a large part in the establishment of the Australian Film Commission, but I think that what has happened since the Liberal Party has gone into opposition is quite clear. Members of the Opposition quite often have had a lot to say about the need to do something in regard to permissiveness. In that regard, I think that perhaps something could be said of the degree of violence on children's television programs. Is this not a good chance to do something about this, to have a public authority which can produce good quality programs for children's television? But it seems that the question of permissiveness vanishes when the Opposition has to support its private enterprise friends. If a question arose of whether quality or private enterprise profits should come first, it appears that the Opposition would have profits come first. If it is a question of whether we will have Australian content or whether foreign films should continue to dominate completely the film industry in Australia, then the Opposition supports the foreign film industry. I believe that the Australian public ought to be made aware of this. 
I wish to express some concern of my own about the legislation. It relates to an area in which I believe the Bill has not gone far enough. I refer to the question of control by a very small monopoly of foreign controlled companies of the film exhibitors and the cinema operators. We have just 3 companies which control a very large share- in fact, most- of the exhibition houses. I quote what the Tariff Board said: 
The three main Australian chains between them control 50 of the 77 city locations 
Later on the report states: 
When the number of cinema seats is taken as a further test of the strength of the major exhibitors, this impression of the dominance of the chains is reinforced. 
The report also contains a very illuminating table which appears as table 8 at page 47. 1 ask that this table be incorporated in Hansard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is there a very substantial public subsidy to civil aviation? If so, does this mean that the airlines can and do charge fares well below economic levels? Does this not make it easier for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to grant outrageous salary increases to pilots and to pass the cost on in increased fares? Is there any reason why the Government should provide civil aviation as a social service? Are there not higher priorities? Will the Minister give consideration not only to terminating the 2-airline agreement but also to reducing the Budget appropriation for civil aviation to zero so that all expenditure on airports, air safety and so on is borne solely by those who use the air services? Can he say whether cessation of the Government assistance to  Sir Reginald  Myles Ansett will have the support of the low government expenditure parties opposite? 

 - Mr question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has his attention been drawn to reports that the brickyards of PGH Industries Ltd in South Australia face closure because of excessive stockpiles? Is it not a fact that demand for building materials will certainly recover, therefore should we not encourage production to continue now to avoid future shortages? Is it not far less costly to retain workers in their present jobs, which are fully geared to production, than to employ the same number of people under, for example, the Regional Employment Development scheme? Will the Government therefore consider providing assistance to such industries in the form of payment of the interest component of any overdraft that is necessary to allow excessive stockpiles to be carried so that such firms can continue production, sustain employment and avoid future shortages? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and is complementary to the question which was just asked by the honourable member for Barton. The Minister will recall that last week I asked him whether assistance could be given to industries which were considering retrenching employees because of excessive stocks. Rephrasing that question I ask: If the Government has to spend say $100,000 re-employing workers under the Regional Employment Development Scheme anyway, is it not better to keep them employed at their present jobs by spending a fraction of that amount in helping a firm to maintain a high level of investment in stocks, for example, by assisting in paying the interest on overdrafts? If this is done, will it not have the further benefit of averting future shortages? I again ask the Minister: Will he give consideration to this proposal and make a recommendation along these lines to the 
Government? Has he anything to add to the answer he gave to my previous question on this subject? 
I rise to indicate my strongest support for this Bill. By that I mean that I support the general concept of this Bill which I regard as a significant and progressive step. I believe that all those associated with its preparation are to be warmly congratulated. I hope the Bill will not be unduly delayed in this House because, in any case, it may be some time before it is finally given assent. As honourable members are to vote on non-Party lines it seems unlikely that the Bill which emerges from this House will be precisely the same as the Bill which emerged from the Senate. It is probable, therefore, that the Bill will have to be shuttled backwards and forwards between the 2 Houses until a concensus is reached. I hope that honourable members will not add to this delay unnecessarily and that some consensus can be reached on minor amendments to avoid a large number of divisions which could unduly delay the passage of the measure. 
Although I support the Bill in principle I reserve my right to consider on its merits any amendment that is proposed. I have no legal training and no knowledge of divorce case law. Therefore, I am prepared to be influenced to some extent by those members who have. All I can hope to do in my short contribution to this debate is to state my views on the concept of marriage and the philosophical basis upon which I support the general objectives of this Bill. 
The Bill states that the family is the natural and fundamental unit of society. To consider the Bill, I think that this concept requires some consideration. The statement that the family is the natural and fundamental unit of society seems to me nothing more than a truism, and it is therefore necessary to examine what this sentence is supposed to convey. To me, it seems simply that most adult people choose at some stage of their life to be married. It also means that most children are brought up by one or both parents. That is what this statement conveys to me. Why do most adults choose marriage? They do this by consent for reasons of mutual security, mutual benefit and sometimes, but not always, mutual happiness. But the important thing is that it is consent, and mutual consent. Furthermore, individuals mutually consent to marriage because of the benefits to themselves, not out of any altruistic notion of benefiting society at large. Thus whilst society at large may benefit from the institution of marriage, people enter marriage not for society's benefit but for their own. Some honourable members may remember reading in George Orwell's book ' 1984' in which the principal character was quite repulsed by the fact that his wife described sexual intercourse between them as 'our duty to the Party'. I am sure that most people are repelled by the concept that a couple's marital affairs are the business of society rather than their own private affairs. It is therefore a private arrangement with which the intervention of the law should be minimal. It follows that the intervention of the law should be minimal in the dissolution of that mutual arrangement. 
Consent as the basis of marriage applies even when marriage is under stress, that is, when the partners decide that the benefits of retaining their family as one unit outweigh the benefits of family breakup. This is why most marriages endure. What, then, is the place of the law? The law ratifies a consent agreement, but surely marriage must remain at all times based on mutual consent, and to impose legal enforcement on marriage, even if that mutual consent has ceased to exist, would be to alter completely the existing concept of marriage. It is argued by some that this Bill undermines the concept of marriage. In fact the opposite is the case. The present concept is a relationship which exists by mutual consent, and I am sure this is the concept which all people, or nearly all, have when they marry. But some people seem to be arguing that marriage should be still legally enforced even when that mutual consent breaks down. In other words, when people marry in future it will be on the understanding that some kind of legal compulsion will exist if the mutual, that is bilateral, consent should ever disappear. Surely those are not the terms upon which a marriage should be based. Surely that would be undermining the existing basis of marriage, which is one of trust. 
This is, of course, acknowledged in the existing law, which provides for dissolution of marriage after a period which was deemed to constitute grounds for determining that a marriage has broken down. This legislation now explicitly upholds the concept of marriage as a voluntary union and a solemn union based on trust. To impose on this union a system of legal compulsion based on arbitrary principles is itself to undermine the basis of marriage. As I noted earlier, people enter a marriage for mutual benefit to themselves, not out of any motive towards society as a whole. It is a private arrangement and not one in which the law should impose rules, apart of course from the ordinary rules of common law applying to all citizens. 
When the marriage has broken down, the place of the law should be to extend the principles of common law to provide justice to the parties and to the children of the union. This Bill does everything it is possible to do in a Bill to prevent the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. Apart from the provision for counselling and the provision of facilities for counselling services attached to the family court, there is provision for assistance for voluntary marriage counselling organisations. Furthermore, apart from the general provisions for counselling, there is special provision for those cases where the parties have been married for less than 2 years. This special provision appears in clause 14 (6), and will no doubt have special relevance to very young couples who may just need some good advice. Instead of just sitting out the time before the divorce, as can happen now, the court is required to suspend the proceedings for dissolution of the marriage until the parties have considered a reconciliation with the assistance of a marriage counsellor. It is also worth noting clauses 15 and 16 which provide for counselling facilities to any party to a marriage, that is, even in the absence of the filing of a notice for dissolution of the marriage. Thus there is every possible facility to prevent marriage breakdown before it occurs. 
On the other hand, this Bill in no way facilitates the breakdown of marriage. What the court is asked to decide is whether inevitable marriage breakdown has occurred. Unlike the present Bill, it does not promote marriage breakdown. For example, a single act of adultery on the part of the respondent can at present be grounds for divorce, however contrite the respondent might be. I fail to see why such a case should be grounds for the court actually to promote- yes, promoteirretrievable breakdown when it has not in fact already occurred. Yet that is possible at present. Under this legislation, the court cannot any longer promote mariage breakdown before it has already occurred. All the court can do now is dissolve a marriage when it is recognised that irretrievable breakdown has occurred- note the past tense- and only when it is acknowledged that irretrievable breakdown has already occurred can this breakdown be given legal recognition. 
A number of people have expressed the proposition that one party can desert the other and obtain a divorce, against the wishes of the deserted party after 12 months. Can I make 3 points in relation to this proposition? Firstly, what actually happens in real life? Does the deserted party really want the marriage to continue? Do people really defend divorces to preserve the marriage? My information is that they do not. People defend divorce cases because they wish to contest questions of custody and access, maintenance or property settlement, not because they wish to remain married to the deserting party. To those who say that people will have their marriage dissolved against their will by the capricious desertion of their spouse, I would ask: Where are the examples of this? Where are all these examples of people who want to contest the divorce, not on the questions of maintenance and so on, but on the grounds of preserving the marriage?' Incidentally, it is worth recording that most divorces now are undefended, and now that the question of fault is to go if this legislation is passed, it is probable that even fewer will be defended. 
The second point is that where one party deserts and the marriage is irretrievable, a denial of dissolution of the marriage will serve no purpose. One cannot compel a deserting partner to return by simply denying the legal recognition of dissolution. It is futile to maintain a legal facade over something which no longer exists in fact. It is not only futile but, in my value judgment, wrong. The law should not be an instrument for Old Testament retribution; it should be humane, compassionate and realistic. This Bill is humane, compassionate and realistic. 
Thirdly, there is clause 48 (3). A respondent who wants to preserve the marriage can place evidence before the court to show why the marriage has not in fact broken down; and, notwithstanding 12 months separation, clause 48 (3) provides that a decree of dissolution shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. Clause 48 (2) which dennes what is irretrievable breakdown, begins with the phrase Subject to sub-section (3).' This is a necessary safeguard, and surely a quite adequate safeguard. Of course, there are other safeguards such as those affecting the maintenance of children, and properly so, but these appear elsewhere in the Bill. 
An important question is whether a period of separation of 12 months is sufficient to justify a decision that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. It is difficult to know what is the minimum period which could be safely applied. Obviously many marriages could be safely said to be finished forever after one month's separation, or even less, but this would not apply to all. The opinions given to the Senate Committee led a majority of that Committee to believe that 6 months was adequate in most cases. It decided on a period of 12 months to be safe. Frankly, I do not have the experience to judge for myself. Therefore I feel bound to accept the Committee's findings. Again I ask those who say that 12 months is insufficient: Where are the examples of 12 months being insufficient? If 12 months is too short a period of separation, surely there must be examples which could be brought to the attention of Parliament of cases where reconciliation has occurred after 12 months. No one has shown me a single example. It should be remembered also that legal dissolution is not automatic; it can only follow the institution of proceedings by one party. So, if there is a prolonged separation, divorce does not necessarily follow and if it does not follow there is nothing to stop cohabitation from being resumed at any time. Some of those who have submitted petitions to the Parliament on this subject have maintained that a further ground should be inserted, namely, intolerable behaviour. I find that difficult to reconcile with the sentiment that is expressed by the petitioners of the Parliament that the Bill will make divorce too easy because intolerable behaviour, unless it is to be made to run concurrently with a period of desertion, will constitute an immediate ground for divorce. So it seems to me to be somewhat inconsistent on the one hand to call for divorce to be made more difficult and on the other to request the insertion in the Bill of a clause to provide a ground for divorce of intolerable behaviour, which will constitute an immediate ground and therefore make divorce easier. 
I would like briefly to say something about the proposition which has been expressed to me and no doubt to other members to the effect that in all circumstances the ex-wife should be maintained indefinitely by the ex-husband. I commend clause 75 (2) to those people who hold that point of view. The Bill sets out a very large number of explicit conditions to which the court must have regard in deciding the conditions of maintenance; It seems to me that the Bill goes to the limit in providing the circumstances which the court must take into account in determining the ability of either party to support himself or herself. It seems to me that the only way in which one can go further than that is to accept the proposition that the female of the species should in all circumstances be dependent upon the male. That seems to me to be somewhat of a downgrading of women. It also seems to me to be an acceptance of the proposition that the role of the female is to be nothing more than an apendage of the male of the species. Apart from that, of course, we have to consider the rights of males. All honourable members no doubt are aware that many men feel that they are being unduly oppressed by many features of the existing legislation in relation to the payment of maintenance. 
On the question of costs, I have been rather surprised by the representations that have been made to me about the unjust treatment of the female- perhaps the male also, for that matterwho can be called upon to pay costs in an action that is brought for dissolution of marriage against her consent. I honestly believe that the people who hold this view have not had a close look at the Bill, because under clause 117 the court can take account of all the conditions and the ability of the various parties to pay the costs. I believe that under the legislation as now proposed there is adequate safeguard in clause 117. It is worth noting, incidentally, that subclause (3) of clause 117 refers to assistance from the Australian Legal Aid Office. As most honourable members would know, the Australian Legal Aid Office, upon its establishment in various parts of Australia, had explicitly set out all Federal legislation as being the basis for the giving of assistance to people who cannot afford to seek private legal advice. 
I would like to express one minor reservation I have about the Bill. It is in relation to clause 75 ( 1 ) (f), which relates to the fact that in deciding, say, the maintenance payable the judge must take into account the eligibility of either party for a pension. Let us take the example of a decision by a court that a wife is unable to support herself and requires outside help. Let us suppose, if I can choose what might be a rather high figure, that in ordinary circumstances the judge were to decide that a maintenance payment of $70 a week by the husband is appropriate and that the court were then to say, having regard to the wife's eligibility for a pension, that the husband need only pay $50 a week and the state will pay the other $20 a week. If it is determined that the ex-wife is unable to support herself, I am inclined to the view that the responsibility should fall upon the other party to the marriage rather than that the rest of the community should be called upon to support her. I will be interested in the reply of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to that. I have some reservations about that subclause. 
Finally, I ask the Attorney-General to give in his reply to the debate on this Bill consideration to my remarks about clause 1 14, which relates to injunctions granted by a court. I have in mind the type of instance where the court might decide that, because of the behaviour of one of the parties to the marriage, it should order that party to vacate the matrimonial home. It is not quite clear to me whether a period of separation enforced by an injunction of the court under clause 1 14 will constitute separation for the purposes of determining that the marriage has irretrievably broken down. I hope that the purport of the query has been made clear. I wm be very interested to hear the reply of the AttorneyGeneral to that query. Having said that and having expressed a minor reservation, I shall listen with interest and impartiality to what is said in the Committee stage of the debate. But, as far as the general concepts and objectives of the Bill are concerned, I indicate my strongest support for the Bill. 
I wish to raise a matter that is of considerable concern in South Australia. It relates to what appears to be a breakdown, or a partial breakdown, of an agreement made between the Australian Government and the major motor vehicle manufacturers about one month ago. Honourable members will recall the substance of this agreement, which followed repeated negotiations between Government officials, a number of Ministers and representatives of the motor vehicle manufacturing companies. The Government gave certain undertakings to adopt measures to support the motor vehicle industry by stimulating the purchase of motor cars. In exchange the manufacturers undertook to defer any retrenchments they had foreshadowed. 
In the case of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd the undertaking was for a period of 3 months and in the case of Chrysler Australia Ltd the period was 30 days. I do not recall the period for Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may be able to tell us the period because the activities of that company affect your electorate, but I think that it was 30 days as well. In any event, every concerned Australian breathed a sigh of relief when this agreement was made between the Australian Government and the car manufacturing companies that there would be no retrenchments, at least for the time being, that certain substantial support would be provided by Government action for the motor vehicle industry, and that we would wait and see what happened after that. I am concerned that there seems to be a partial breakdown of this arrangement so far as it concerns Chrysler Australia Ltd. 
On Monday of this week Chrysler called up a number of toolmakers and advised them that they would have the option of accepting work on the production line. As they were all tradesmen this would mean a substantial reduction in pay and they would no longer be working in their trade. They were told that the only alternative was that they could put in their resignations. It is very interesting that the company did not offer retrenchment as an alternative. I understand that some of the workers were led to believe that the company would not retrench people because of the agreement with the Government. That is not quite the same as the excuse that was subsequently given by the company but that was the advice given to me by a couple of the employees at Chrysler. Some of these people contacted me. They did not wish to resign. They felt that if they did it would prejudice their chances of assistance under the National Employment and Training Scheme and might prejudice their chances of receiving the unemployment benefit. 
It seems to me that the company has adopted a rather circuitous method to try to avoid retrenchments. A lot of people contacted me about this matter because they thought it was a breach of the undertaking made with the Australian Government. The result has been that many of these tradesmen, but not all of them, have refused to accept a transfer. An occupation of that section of the factory took place. In the light of everyone's understanding of the agreement between the Government and the company it is hardly surprising that this occupation of the factory did take place. I am sure that no one could blame those employees for refusing to accept a transfer. 
The next statement I heard from the companyit was not first hand- was that the company claimed to officials of the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union that the agreement with the Government applied only to workers on the production line and not to these tradesmen. I have tried to check on the actual undertaking given by Chrysler to the Government. The company claimed that it was going to guarantee employment only for people directly engaged in the manufacture of cars. I suppose the company would try to justify the retrenchment of these tradesmen by saying that as they were working on design operations they were not directly involved in manufacturing. In my opinion, that is complete sophistry on the part of the company and seems to be to be a back door method of trying to evade their undertakings with the Government. The Government entered into this agreement in a very solemn manner. I think it is worth reminding the House of the very substantial assistance that has been given to the motor vehicle industry by this Government. As everybody knows, this Government is pledged to support a viable vehicle building industry in Australia and it lays particular emphasis on supporting the motor vehicle industry in South Australia. 
Last November the Government announced a policy of an 85 per cent local content plan. At the same time it was announced that there would be a 35 per cent tariff on the import of completely built up units and that if the number of vehicles imported exceeds 20 per cent of the domestic market there would be a penalty tariff of an extra 10 per cent placed on those vehicles. To add to that, later on- I think this was part of the agreement made between the Government and companiesthe Government introduced an import quota system. This of course has been a very hefty slice of protection to the Australian car industry. In addition to that, as part of the same package deal, the Government undertook, and has carried out that undertaking, to reduce sales tax on motor vehicles. Then there have been the considerable Government purchases of vehicles, and that has been very much to the benefit of this particular company. There are also the other general benefits such as reductions in company tax and accelerated depreciation. 
The Australian Government and the Australian community have spent many hundreds of millions of dollars in guaranteeing the jobs of these employees, and although the company might use some sort of peculiar logic in justifying its action in seeking to transfer these employees I believe it is engaging in sophistry and that it is certainly not honouring the spirit of the undertaking. It is not honouring the spirit of the agreement which was made with the Australian Government. I believe that it is most important for the employees concerned and for the economy of South Australia- indeed for the economy of the whole nation- that we guarantee that everybody concerned co-operates in guaranteeing a viable motor vehicle industry in Australia. I hope that the representatives of this company will ensure that not only the letter but the spirit of the agreement made with the Government is fully honoured. 
In conclusion I would like to refer to the proposed local content plans announced last November by the Government. I think everybody agrees that one of the great problems of the motor vehicle industry in Australia is its successive fragmentation. The Australian Government is very anxious to have one of the major Japanese manufacturers operate in partnership with the Chrysler company in South Australia at the engine plant at Lonsdale, and this is something that all South Australians would want to see. However, I think it is absolutely essential that if one of the Japanese companies goes in it should be either Toyota or Datsun because they are the major Japanese manufacturers operating in Australia. I am a little bit apprehensive that the connections of the Chrysler company with Mitsubishi in Japan might lead them to prefer the connection with Mitsubishi to continue and, perhaps to expand. I believe that that would not be the answer to our problems. Whatever happens, Australians will certainly want to continue to purchase Toyotas and Datsuns. I think those vehicles should be made here, but we should not encourage the continuation of fragmentation of the industry. I believe it is essential that at least one of these 2 manufacturers should do everything to operate jointly with the Chrysler company at Lonsdale. I would like to hear words of encouragement from the Chrysler organisation in that regard. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I agree with your ruling that, in view of the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  made certain references to Medibank in his second speech, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe)  was entitled to deal with the same subject. Nevertheless, my original statement stands. I propose to introduce an original turn into the debate by discussing the Bill, which is something that the honourable member for Paterson and the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  did not do. 
Members of the Opposition are most reluctant to discuss this Bill and to tell the Australian people why they are opposed to it. Let us look at what this Bill provides. The Bill provides for transitional arrangements for private health insurance organisations. If in the period of the transition to Medibank they are unable to deal with the various claims that they receive, provision is made so that the contributors to those funds will not be disadvantaged. That is why the Opposition does not want a discussion about its opposition to the Bill. It does not want the Australian people to know that it wants certain people to be disadvantaged and that it will sacrifice contributors to those funds on the altar of private enterprise health insurance. No wonder members of the Opposition did not want to tell the Australian people why they oppose this Bill. 
This Bill also makes provision for nursing home benefits to be paid in respect of nonpensioner patients. No wonder Opposition speakers did not refer to that aspect. Everybody in this Parliament and everybody in Australia ought to know that the Opposition is opposing legislation to provide Commonwealth nursing home benefits for non-pensioner patients. Why did not Opposition, speakers refer to that fact at all? They did not want to tell anybody about it. But that is what they are doing. 
This Bill is not about Medibank. The legislation relating to Medibank was passed by the Joint Sitting of both Houses of the Parliament. The Medibank proposal was put to the Australian people at the Federal elections in 1969, 1972 and 1974. On that basis, the Australian people elected a Labor Government in the last two of those 3 elections and the Bill dealing with Medibank was enacted following its passage at the Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of this Parliament. This Bill is not about Medibank. It seeks to provide benefits to certain people and deals also with certain transitional arrangements. Why did not Opposition speakers discuss the contents of this Bill instead of trying to draw a smokescreen across the whole trail by discussing only the tired old arguments that they have put up in the past about Medibank? 
This Bill provides also for the repeal of the payment of- (Quorum formed) The effect of throwing out this Bill, which is what the Opposition is seeking to do, would be most curious in relation to the third provision of the Bill with which I wish to deal, that is, the payment of hospital and medical benefits to voluntary health funds. Under the Medibank scheme, if people choose to receive private ward treatment or to go into a private hospital they will still receive the benefit payment of $16 a day. The effect of throwing out this Bill would be that, if people choose to go into the private ward and if they choose to take out additional private hospital insurance, in addition to receiving through Medibank the hospital benefit for their private hospitalisation they will continue to receive payment through the voluntary health fund in the form of a Commonwealth benefit. In other words, if the existing scheme is not repealed, the Commonwealth will be obliged to continue to pay medical and hospital benefits not only through Medibank but also through voluntary health funds if people remain insured by those funds. The Commonwealth would be forced to pay twice for each individual service. This would add increasingly to the cost of the scheme. It would not provide further cover for people but would just provide a cash bonus. 
This could be interpreted in no other way than as a deliberate effort by the Opposition to sabotage this scheme, even if it means making the scheme more costly, even if it means inconveniencing private citizens, and even if it means that people who go into nursing homes will not be able to receive Commonwealth nursing home benefits. This is the reason why none of the Opposition speakers chose to speak about this Bill. They do not want the public to know that they want the Commonwealth to pay 2 lots of benefits to people who go into private hospitals and that whilst this would increase the cost of the health scheme it would not increase the security of the people against hospitalisation or sickness. They do not want the public to know that the Opposition is against non-pensioner patients receiving nursing home benefits. They do not want the public to know that if any private fund cannot provide financial security to its contributors in the transition to Medibank the Opposition would be opposed to the Government providing some security during that transition period. They do not want the public to know that they are out to sabotage this health scheme which has been adopted by a Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. 
It is difficult to know why all the members of the Opposition are so keen to do everything possible to try to destroy and to sabotage the actions of a democratically elected government. There are heaps and heaps of measures that have been thrown out by the Senate. The rejection of many of these measures represents nothing other than obstruction for obstruction's sake. That might be all very well, but the Opposition has now taken its action to the point that it will seriously inconvenience many people and, in this case, will cause considerable extra expense to the taxpayer by requiring the Government to pay 2 lots of hospital benefits. I repeat that this point has not been dealt with by any of the Opposition speakers. Not one of them has given a single explanation of why he is opposed to the provisions of this Bill. This is something that ought to be shouted out from the housetops. 
I mention briefly a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Chisholm. I cannot understand why the Opposition must assume that all we have to do to have a proper health care scheme in Australia is to talk with the Australian Medical Association, as if everything that that Association espouses will coincide with the best form of health care in Australia. In other words, the Opposition assumes that the AMA is some sort of altruistic body whose concern is purely with the health care system, and if the benefits to the medical profession of any system that is provided happen to coincide with what is best for the health of Australians, that is pure coincidence. That is not the truth at all. The fact is that the AMA is not an altruistic body. 
Experience shows that in all other countries the medical profession is prepared to go to any lengths to oppose changes which it regards as detrimental to its own interests. I refer to many places in the United States of America where people have tried to introduce pre-paid medical systems such as voluntary health maintenance organisations into various State legislatures. This is not a radical proposal. I think that the provision of health maintenance organisations is now in the policy of the Liberal Party. Yet the representatives of medical lobbies in the United States have said 'We have sufficient clout in the State legislatures in the United States to prevent any such innovatory legislation coming in' and they have succeeded in doing so. Everybody knows what happened in Chile and the crucial role played by the organised medical profession in that country to bring down the democratically elected government. It saddens me to see the main Opposition party in this country running along to the Australian Medical Association every time it wants to find out what it should be thinking. 
Even more remarkable is the fact that the Opposition seems to think that the interests of the private voluntary health funds coincide with the interests of Australians. We all know that these private health funds are not representative of their contributors. They give their contributors no say at all. A very well known meeting was held in May 1973 by the chief medical benefits fund in Victoria. An effort was made there to organise the annual general meeting so as to give the contributors some control. But this move was thwarted at the last minute when a carload of Liberal members of Parliament arrived from Parliament House in Melbourne- I understand that  Mr John  Jess, the former member for La Trobe, was with them- to help pack the meeting in order to maintain control by the small elite in charge of the funds and to prevent proper representative contributor control of those funds. The Australian Labor Party Government stands for a health scheme which will provide for the interests of all the Australian people. If it is inconsistent with the interests of lobby groups like the AMA or the voluntary health funds, we believe that the needs of the Australian people must have priority of place. 
-This Bill represents a new approach to housing policy. As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has stated in his second reading speech, certain defects in the provision of housing have been identified and the Australian Housing Corporation has been established to act directly to plug those defects. To provide housing for people, we need land, we need building workers together with building materials, finance and the entrepreneurs, either private builders or government housing instrumentalities. 
As I see it, the Australian Housing Corporation will act in 2 of these areas- finance and entrepreneurship. Finance will be available to various categories of home buyers and to builders. Provision is made for the Corporation to act as joint entrepreneur with private enterprise, particularly in the provision of rental housing. It is in this area of rental accommodation that the Housing Corporation will have the greatest potential to do good. It is not intended that the Corporation will duplicate the functions of existing institutions, such as the savings banks or the State housing authorities. It is intended that the Corporation will compliment the activities of other bodies. That is not to say that there is not a need for a co-ordinated approach to housing policy. There is a very great need for this and, later on, I will say something about it. 
The greatest problem that we have today is with rental accommodation, both houses and flats. This Bill will assist that problem but a very great deal of thinking and action will still be necessary not just to overcome the shortage but to prevent it from becoming worse. What is responsible for this shortage? There are a number of factors. Firstly, there is the fact that so many forms of Government assistance discriminate in favour of home purchasers. Although it is not intended that way, the actual redistributive effect is harmful to people paying rent. For example, the home owner may deduct council rates and land taxes from his taxable income, thus getting a reduction in his income tax. This is a benefit which discriminates against those who do not own their own home. The same may be said of the tax deductibility of the interest component of home mortgage repayments. 
However, before any members of the Opposition criticise this proposal, it is worth reminding them that exactly the same criticism is valid of the similar proposal of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in his 1972 election policy speech and of the home savings grants scheme introduced by the Menzies Government in the 1960s. A further benefit to home owners is the exemption of the family home from death duties. This, of course, is of no benefit if one has no family home of one's own. I believe that these forms of discrimination may well be a reason for the sluggishness of expansion of rental accommodation. A developer building houses for purchase also has the problem of high costs and interest rates, but he knows that the prospective buyer will have some relief in the form of tax deductions whereas the tenant paying rent does not. This could well be a factor in discouraging development of rental accommodation such as flats. 
A second factor in the shortage of rental accommodation is the prejudice of State Liberal governments against rent payers. This attitude is apparently ideological. It is cruel and indefensible. It is all very well for the Governments of New South Wales and Victoria to say that they want to encourage home ownership, but this does not justify their harsh, in fact punitive, attitude to those families who cannot, or for various reasons do not wish to, buy their own homes. This attitude was made quite plain by the Victorian Minister for Housing in the negotiations leading up to the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. But the greatest monument to the approach of the Victorian Government is revealed in some figures contained in a pamphlet published recently by the Brotherhood of St Laurence. It is noted that in the year 1973-74 the Victorian Housing Commission's total stock of rental homes actually declined. The Commission built 894 houses and sold 1181. What an achievement that is. 
The question arises of whether the Australian Housing Corporation can help to overcome this problem. I think it can. Of course many other things also need to be done, but the Corporation can make a contribution. One thing it can do, and must do, is to provide funds for rental accommodation at concessional rates of interest. This will help to redress the balance towards rent payers as a counter to the considerable concessions already available to home buyers. The role of the Corporation acting as a joint entrepreneur with private builders is also important. One of the problems at present is psychological. If the Government comes in actively in this area it should bolster the confidence of builders and get them into action again. 
What is needed above all in the housing industry is guaranteed continuity of activity. The real demand for housing in Australia is almost limitless because Australians will always want houses. The fact that there is this guaranteed market should be exploited to the maximum to ensure that housing is a growth industry. It is not an industry which can be greatly affected by competition from imports and it can therefore be planned to expand irrespective of international economic trends. 
The Industries Assistance Commission- the IAC- has mentioned in its annual report those industries which require little assistance against imports. First on its list, which is implicitly a list of industries in which growth should be encouraged, is service industries. I suggest that the first item in this section should be housing, that is, the building industry and the manufacture of building materials. In order to achieve a growth of this industry there must be planned continuity of activity, and that means of course planning. This Government and the Australian Labor Party are committed to a policy of economic planning. To achieve national economic planning will not be easy. 
As the Treasurer  (Dr. J. F. Cairns)  pointed out on 'Monday Conference' on Australian Broadcasting Commission television this week, most economists in Australia have a macro-economic approach, that is, they are concerned mainly with overall demand management by budgetary or monetary means. The existing bureaucratic institutions are unable, and probably in some cases unwilling, to take a more vigorous approach. I strongly recommend to the Government that a start be made on economic planning by going to work on the housing industry. If we cannot embark on an overall 5-year economic plan, let us at least have a housing plan. If it is effective it could be a prototype of an overall economic plan. 
At the present time there is no machinery at all for housing policy except in the area of public authority housing. In the private sector, which is responsible for housing most Australians, there is no policy. Housing is of course the traditional responsibility of State governments, but even State Housing Ministers are really directly concerned only with their public housing authorities. There is a completely laissez faire approach in the field of private housing. I believe this is a rebuttal to those Opposition spokesmen in this debate who asserted that this Bill usurps the role of the State housing authorities. In fact, the State housing authorities are concerned really only with public housing. On the question of private housing there is really no overall policy in any field. Even in the field of public housing there is no real on-going planning. There is the conference of Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers, but this does not really represent a joint planning approach. Rather, each Minister arrives at the conference with a prepared position and the result is usually some kind of compromise. 
The overall level of housing activity in Australia has been governed by the very blunt instrument of monetary policy or so-called demand management. I said 'so-called demand management' because what has been called demand for housing is not really that at all. Demand for housing is a euphemism for the supply of money for housing. When the Reserve Bank reduces the demand for housing it is of course not reducing the desire of people to buy houses; it is making it harder to borrow for houses. The reliance on monetary policy has had serious effects on the industry. Because the level of building is so sensitive to monetary policy, the result of monetary management has been that the economy is regulated by turning the housing industry on and off or rather from hot to cold to hot. A new approach is required, not of demand management but of assessment of the real housing needs of Australians; not of demand management, but of supply management; not so much the supply of money, but the supply of real resources for the building industry. 
The planning authority should be a commission, not an Australian Government commission, but a joint Commonwealth-State commission. Perhaps the nearest analogy already in existence would be the River Murray Commission, which has a commissioner from the Australian Government and one from each of 3 States. The Commission would not have only Government appointees, however. It is essential to include building unions. Builders should also be represented, perhaps through the Housing Industry Association, which represents builders and building materials manufacturers and which has a fairly good finger on the pulse of the industry. 
It is pleasing to see in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction a reference to the Housing Indicative Planning Council which has just been set up under the Minister's auspices. I believe this is a most welcome development but I should like to see the Council develop into a statutory body with a permanent infrastructure for evaluating needs and planning for the future, and with adequate powers to ensure a stable but growing industry. For guaranteed growth of the industry continuity of activity is needed. This means continuity of supplies and continuity of workers. One of the problems which results from the fluctuations in the housing industry is the departure of people from the industry during a downturn, and some never return. If there is guaranteed continuity there will not only be fewer departures from the industry but also more people will enter it. 
Having more people enter the building industry raises the perennial question of adult apprenticeships. Officially the trade union movement has adopted an accommodating approach to this question, but there must still be some reservations by building workers about what will happen to them if there is a sudden glut of newcomers into the industry and a downturn occurs. If building workers were to feel that way, who could blame them? The answer to this conundrum must surely be permanency for building workers. If job security is guaranteed for workers already in the industry an expansion of the work force would mean more employment, not less. To achieve permanency should not be an impossible task. It has been achieved in the stevedoring industry, in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Incidentally, the ASIA was established for what was believed to be a declining industry in terms of employment. Surely the same objective would be even easier to achieve in a growth industry, which the housing industry must be. 
Many economic and social benefits would flow from planned continuity and growth in the building industry. With an expanding work force and with the industry insulated against fluctuations in the national and international economy, a guaranteed growth can be assured in the supporting industries; not only those making building materials but also in industries making the domestic appliances which go into most homes. This, of course, means that high employment levels can be sustained in the slumps which are intrinsic to the capitalist economic system. 
It is also worth noting that the building and building materials industries are not unpleasant industries to work in, particularly in comparison with many other industries which Australian workers endure- industries, incidentally, which are very vulnerable to international economic pressures and which require heavy slabs of protection in times like the present. Another important function of such a planning body would be in assuring continuity of" supplies of materials. It seems anomalous to me that manufacturers of bricks, for example, should be laying workers off because of excessive stocks. If we return to a buoyant state in the building industry, which I believe we will soon do, the lay-offs now occurring, apart from the trauma to the workers concerned, could mean a future return to the shortages we experienced in the past. Rather than trying to re-employ these workers in the regional employment development scheme, which is a good scheme in its own right but which involves a heavy expense for each job provided, I would prefer to see some assistance given to manufacturers to continue production in spite of their large stockpiles. Perhaps the assistance could be in the form of servicing overdrafts on stocks. With the assurance of sustained activity in the industry we would then have the other essential ingredient of confidence. I have already mentioned labour and materials, but we also need confidence. Confidence is vital in an industry which is so dependent on the private sector. A planned approach would provide it. 
Above all, planning means evaluation of supply and demand, not of money but of real resources. It is the thought that more money, or less money, will solve our housing problems which is quite fallacious. The Australian Housing Corporation Bill does, in fact, provide for the Corporation to act as a lending institution in respect of such things as bridging the deposit gap. This is a problem, not so much in the Bill but in a philosophical sense. Of course, everybody is in favour of helping people to close the deposit gap but what is really needed is more houses. In the short run some finance at relatively low interest rates to help bridge the deposit gap will help to get people to build houses. This is to be commended in this legislation, but there are limitations. Once we reach the stage of making full use of the resources available to the building industry the answer is not more money but to raise the capacity by manpower policies and planning. If the capacity cannot be raised more money will mean not more houses but dearer homes. Indeed, in these circumstances, further concessions to home buyers will only further disadvantage those who do not own houses. If concessions are given to home buyers, and houses are not available, the only effect will be rising prices. This is a further handicap to those who do not qualify for those concessions. I ask honourable members to remember that home owners have an inflation-proof asset as well as special privileges such as taxation advantages. It is time we gave rent payers a go because they have neither an inflation-proof asset nor tax advantages. I suggest that consideration might be given to providing direct subsidies to people who pay rent. I am not sure whether this Bill would enable this to be done. 
I thank the Minister for his comment. I think this is most important. A problem in areas where there are many people paying rent, such as in inner suburban areas and certainly in part of my own electorate, is that if the area becomes popular for redevelopment, the tendency is for council rates and other charges to increase heavily. The result is that many people will experience an increase in the unimproved values of their properties and if they are on low incomes they can be priced out of an area in which they might have lived for most of their lives. I should not like to see this happen nor do I think would any Government supporter. People should be encouraged to remain in the suburb of their choice. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, people of various income and social groups should be encouraged to live together in the one suburb rather than there being created what might be called ghettos. Provision could be made in this legislation for specific rental subsidies to enable people to remain in the suburbs of their choice. I am pleased that the Minister indicated that such provision is made in this legislation. It is an extremely progressive move. I support the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Social Security heard suggestions that the Government is preventing the National Health Services Association, a voluntary health fund in South Australia, from paying full hospital benefits to special account patients? Is there any discrimination against this fund? Is it a fact that the Mutual Hospital Association in the same State is paying full hospital benefits to special account patients? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and concerns sections of the Corporations and Securities Bill dealing with company law. Has the Prime Minister seen suggestions that such provisions would more properly and effectively be included in a Companies Act of uniform terms throughout Australia? What meaning, if any, is there in the term 'a'- that is, singular- 'Companies Act of uniform terms'? Is this not a subterfuge for dispensing with a single national Companies Act and relying on the good graces of State governments to pass uniform legislation? Finally, I ask: Does the track record of State governments, for example with the Moore v Doyle legislation, give any cause for hope that State governments could be relied upon to pass uniform company legislation? 
I rise to oppose specifically amendment No.  5  moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  Proposed new clause  5A  seeks to negate the effect of clause  10  of the Bill as far as the  2-  airlines agreement is concerned. I remind honourable members that clause  10  of the Bill states that it is unlawful to give any person, State, locality or class or kind of transport any preference or advantage. Of course, there is no question that under the  2-airIine  agreement, brought in and sustained by previous Liberal Party governments, this sort of thing could not be upheld by an interstate commission and so the Opposition has tried specifically to defend its friend,  Sir Reginald  Ansett, in proposed new clause  5A,  which seeks to exempt the Airlines Agreement Act from the powers of the InterState Commission. It was not enough for previous governments to try to insulate the  2-airline  agreement against the election of a Labor Government. The Opposition is now trying to prevent this Government doing anything about trying to rescind it. I personally hope that the Inter-State Commission will be able to do something to overcome this iniquitous agreement entered into by previous Liberal Party governments in what must have been one of the most corrupt decisions of previous Liberal governments. About one month before the last election the 2-airline agreement was extended from 1977 to 1982. 
I think that everybody ought to realise that unless the establishment of the Inter-State Commission has some effect on it then there is no other way that the 2-airline agreement can be rescinded before 1 982 at the very earliest. That is because of a condition contained in the Airlines Agreement Act of 1972. I have a copy of it in front of me. It is  Mr William  McMahon 's little monument to his standard of government.  His  signature appears with that of the 2 major airlines on an agreement in a Bill to which assent was given on 2 November 1972. The right honourable gentleman knew then that his government had had its day and that the election of a Labor government was inevitable. So he sought to insulate his friend,  Sir Reginald  Ansett, from the possibility of a Labor government seeking to end the utterly iniquitous and outrageous 2-airline agreement which had been sustained by successive governments. 
Let us look at some of the provisions contained in the 2-airline agreement. I believe that the people of Australia ought to be made aware of some of the enormous amount of featherbedding that has been provided for  Sir Reginald  Ansett under successive 2-airline agreements. I think honourable members ought to realise that the present 2-aiiline agreement provides not just for the airlines side of  Sir Reginald  Ansett 's operations. The 2-airline agreement was made between the Government and Ansett Transport Industries, that is, the whole Ansett group. In other words, we have to underwrite the operations of the whole group- the television stations and the whole lot. If honourable members go further into the 2-airline agreement they will see what it seeks to do. It states: 
Whereas one of the objects of the parties to this agreement is to secure and maintain- 
The 2-airline agreement states, among other things, that the purpose of the agreement is to secure a position in which there are 2 and not more than 2 operators of trunk route airline services. I notice that the honourable member for Gippsland has said that the Inter-State Commission Bill is a socialist Bill. Can honourable members imagine anything more inimical to private enterprise than the restriction of any further operators from entering into the field of civil aviation? But that is what has been done. I hope that the right honourable member for Lowe will enter into this debate and tell us something about the contributions of ATI to Liberal Party and Country Party funds during successive elections. What else does the agreement do? The agreement then goes on to say something about guaranteeing loans for the purchase of aircraft. Why not do that for all other forms of private enterprise in Australia? 
Then we come to section 8 of the Airlines Agreement Act. In it there is a requirement to provide a reasonable return on capital to Ansett Transport Industries. That refers to a return on capital in relation not only to the airlines but also to Channel 0 in Melbourne and all the other branches of the group. What a fantastic amount of feather-bedding and protection of an individual company. That is not private enterprise; that is gross interference with it. Why does the right honourable member for Lowe not have something to say about that? The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the champion in this House of unfettered, laissezfaire, private enterprise capitalism, has remained completely silent about the utterly iniquitous amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. I would like to see the Government do everything possible to try to undo the situation concerning the 2-airline agreement. I hope that the Inter-State Commission will be able to do something to override it. 
I know, and I applaud, what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is doing in going ahead with his cost recovery program to try to recover the cost of civil aviation. He has been criticised for going ahead and trying to recover 80 per cent of the cost over a period of 5 years. I have perhaps one criticism to offer of the Minister's actions in this respect. I do not think that he is going far enough. I would like to see all the costs recovered. I do not see why people who do not travel on airlines should have to pay for those who do. I think that we might perhaps be doing a service to those people in Australia who use the airlines if we were to do something to release the restraints imposed by the 2-airline agreement. Perhaps that might result in greater power being given to the Government airline, Trans-Australia Airlines. Who knows? A third airline or a fourth airline might come into the picture and be able to provide some genuine price competition which might result in the provision of some sort of deal to the consumers in the aviation industry, that is, the air travelling public. I do not see why the interests of those people should be overruled in the interests of one person who is seeking to be insulated from the market forces by an utterly iniquitous agreement in the 2-airline agreement that was consented to by the previous Parliament and cannot be rescinded by even the popularly elected Government. I certainly hope that the Committee will throw out unceremoniously the amendments moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
-The previous  speaker  mentioned that everybody in the community is in favour of giving proper attention to our children which is, in a sense, like supporting motherhood. Everybody in this House supports the view that a great deal needs to be done in providing proper care for children in that there are many children in Australia, particularly where both parents are working or the sole parent is working, who are not getting adequate assistance at the moment and that the community does have a responsibility to provide assistance to them. However, it could also be said that that is about where the consensus on the child care issue finishes because there are strong differences of opinion within the community on the whole philosophy of child care and this really centres on the role of women either as mothers or as members of the work force. One view is that as women have rights equal to men as members of the work force, their childbearing role should not be allowed to prevent them from finding work, job advancement or job satisfaction. The result of this is the belief that the community should provide and pay for the care of children while their mothers work. 
A contrary view held equally strongly by other people is that the overriding role of a woman is as a mother and it has to be a full time role. Arising out of this view is the suggestion of a mother's allowance or a housewife's wage. The view is that a woman should not be forced by economic necessity to forsake her role as mother and become industrial cannon fodder. These differences are of considerable substance and they are questions which are not resolved in the present Bill. We could say from looking at the Bill that there is no prescribed philosophy in the charter of the Children's Commission. We must recognise what this means. It means that we have not really solved the problems of child care by the mere act of providing for a Children's Commission. The formation of the Commission is really only the end of the beginning. In my opinion the Government cannot leave the whole question of child care to a commission. The money outlaid on child care and the distribution of that money is of tremendous social importance because it represents redistribution of income. 
This is the important point and we must not lose sight of it. Expenditure under this program will have profound redistributional effects. My plea is that the social and economic implications of the program for the Children's Commission should be fully examined before money is spent for I believe that it must be redistributional otherwise there is no point in spending money at all. We must ensure also that we are redistributing income to those people who really need it. 
Returning to the question of child care being paid for by the Government- that is, if the Government pays for the care of children of working parents- that amounts to a redistribution of income away from single income families towards 2-income families. I do not believe that this redistribution can be justified in principle. It might well be asked: Why should a family with one breadwinner have to pay for the care of children of families who have 2 breadwinners? Whether one agrees with the principle of women in the work force or not, the fact is that many families with modest incomes forgo the second pay packet because of a firm belief that being a full time mother is more important. That being so, why should such a family be penalised by having to pay through taxation for the care of children of families who are receiving that second pay packet? I do not share the ideological view of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  that the woman's place is as a full time mother. I do not take a view either way on that question and I do not believe that the Government should. The fact is that some women do take this view and forgo that second income and I would not like to see them penalised because of that. What I am saying is that the Government must ensure that it is aware of the social and economic consequences of all the decisions of the Children's Commission before financial support is given to them. 
I want to make some constructive suggestions. The first is that we have to ensure that there is adequate research before expenditure is carried out. This year we have an expenditure of $75m and I was rather regretful that the Government acceded to pressure from the Opposition last year because when a reduction in expenditure was announced there was some rather cynical political grandstanding by the Opposition and a figure of $75m was selected. Much of this expenditure is needed in my electorate. I can think of some areas, for example, in which after day care is needed. These are areas where there are a lot of so-called latchkey children. A great deal of this expenditure will go to useful purposes. It does appear that some other expenditure has been provided just as if we were saying: 'What can we do with this money we have decided to appropriate?'. I think we must have a clear idea in advance of what the money will be spent on. 
The second point- I have referred to this already- is the redistribution effect. If child care centres, for example, are paid for by the community what we are doing is taxing everybody to pay for the children of the 2-income family to be looked after. This is a penalty on single income families which I do not believe can be justified. I am concerned that money has been outlaid already for child care centres but the charges that are being made on the families will recover only some of the recurrent costs of the organisations which are running them. In my view, the charges made should recover the capital and the recurrent expenditure for the establishment and the running of those centres. Of course, that does not apply to people in special economic circumstancesin the low income range and, particularly, the single parent who is forced to work even though he or she might choose an alternative course. Obviously, assistance must be provided for them. They should not be penalised. In those cases, obviously the child care facilities should be provided free of charge. But that does not say that this should apply to everybody in the community. We must remember that there are other people who choose not to make use of the facilities that are being provided. 
Thirdly, I think we must have regard to the availability of resources. It is no use, for instance, having a crash program for the provision of a lot of buildings if the building industry is operating at full capacity. It is not far off that level of activity in my State but in other States the building industry is operating at below capacity. I think, at the moment, we would not have to worry about that factor too much but we will have to remember in the future that a commission simply makes decisions on what is needed. It is up to the Government to decide whether, in the light of the capacity, say, of the building industry or the time to train pre-school teachers, the need can be met in a certain amount of time. If it cannot, it is not worth outlaying the additional expenditure. 
The fourth suggestion I should like to make is that we must balance the needs of children against other social priorities of the community. I do not believe that expenditure through the Children 's Commission should be sacrosanct just because it is expenditure on the recommendation of a commission. The role of a commission is to examine needs and to recommend expenditure in certain fields. This does not mean that such recommendations should be automatically approved by the Government. This has been the case in the past with the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Grants Commission. It has been done not only by this Government but also by other governments which have tended to say: 'This is the Commission's recommendation; it must be adopted because that is what it has suggested'. I am not blaming a commission for that. It is not a commission's job to determine priorities. It is the Government's job to determine priorities. After the Children's Commission has said what its priorities are, we must consider those needs along with other needs in the Government's program. I have in mind, particularly, the care of aged people, of geriatric people. I am probably biased in this matter because my electorate has an unusually high proportion of aged persons. Nevertheless, I believe that we should not give a lower priority necessarily to geriatric care just because care of aged people does not come under a commission and other needs do come under the care of a commission. I think also that we will have to have a careful look at the relative priorities of aged people and in this respect we should examine the Borrie report. It is not an easy document to take in at a moment's glance because a lot of variables are indicated in it. It seemed to suggest that the trend will be for the proportion of children in the community during the next few decades to fall, whereas the proportion of aged people in the community is likely to rise. I believe that we will have to give increasing attention to geriatric care. This is another of the social priorities that the Government will have to keep in mind. 
Finally, I want to say a few more words about the expenditure that is to be outlaid by the Government and about how the Government should go about doing this. Unfortunately, the annual line budgeting which has taken place, not just for this program but for other programs of this and previous governments, tends to create the situation where the Budget allocation is announced in August or September, then another 3 or 4 months are taken to decide how the money will be distributed, people have to draw up their programs, call for tenders and so on, and we are left with about 3 months in which the money has to be spent in a great hurry. I believe this situation is not adequate. We must try more and more to move towards a system of program budgeting so that we can perhaps have a 3-year rolling program. This would enable the people responsible for planning these programs to have some idea of continuity and to have some guarantee of continuity of funds so that they can plan in a proper and orderly way and not have to try suddenly to spend large sums of money, say, between April and the end of June. Having made those remarks and expressed my reservations, I support the Bill. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- approved bank' means the Reserve Bank of Australia or any other bank for the time being approved by the Treasurer; 

 Chairman' means the  Chairman  of the Commission; child' means a pre-school aged child, a child who is attending a primary or secondary school or a child who has not attained the age of 18 years and is prevented by reason of a physical or mental disability or handicap from attending a school;  services for children ' includes- 
the care of pre-school aged children at a time or times of the day when they are not being cared for in their own homes; 
the education of pre-school aged children; 
the care of children other than pre-school aged children at a time or times of the day when they are not being provided with an educational service and are not being cared for in their own homes; 
the care of physically or mentally disabled or handicapped children at a time or times of the day when they are not being provided with a prescribed service and are not being cared for in their own homes; 
assistance to parents in connexion with the care of their sick children in their own homes at a time or times of the day when the parents are engaged in employment; (0 assistance to, and counselling of, parents in relation to the raising of children; and 
other services, not being educational services or other services prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph, provided to children, or to the parents of children, that will be conducive to meeting the needs of children having special needs or to promoting the physical or mental development of children; 
I wish to raise a question of very basic importance to my electorate and to all of metropolitan Adelaide and therefore to the economy of South Australia. It relates to the car industry. I should like to commend and encourage the Australian Government for the strong support which it is giving to the car industry in South Australia. I want to make it known that the car industry in South Australia does not have the support of the Liberal Party. All South Australians should examine closely the remarks of the honourable member for Corangamite,  Mr Street,  who is the Liberal Party's official spokesman on labour matters. He has made it clear that South Australia's car industry can expect no support under a LiberalNational Country Party government. According to him, South Australians can expect no support for their most crucial industry under any future Federal Liberal government. It is no secret that the Australian Government is actively supporting a proposal for the Chrysler motor company and 2 Japanese companies for the joint manufacture of a 4-cylinder engine at the Chrysler engine plant at Lonsdale in South Australia. It is also possible that the Australian Government, through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, could take up an equi ty itself in this venture. But for some inexplicable reason the Opposition spokesman on these matters has come out against the idea. The Government's proposals are aimed at making the Australian car industry competitive and thereby sustaining, or even increasing, the capacity of the car industry to provide employment. 
What are the problems of the Australian motor vehicle industry at the moment? For a start- and this is a problem which I do not suppose we can ever really overcome- Australia is a relatively small market compared with the large domestic markets of Japan, the United States and the European Economic Community. But the Australian market, until recent years, has been divided amongst 3 manufacturers. These 3 manufacturers have locked themselves into a situation where they are building only 6-cylinder engine models. Consequently these manufacturers have had only small runs of vehicles against which to offset the very high fixed costs of motor vehicle manufacture. That has made it a relatively uneconomic operation. This problem has now been compounded by the rising relative popularity of small cars. With the problem I have just mentioned, we still have the situation where no 4-cylinder engine is made in this country. With the small market already divided amongst 3 local manufacturers there has been a further reduction in the market by the import of small cars. The imports are of 2 kinds. There are the completely built-up imports which provide very little employment in this country, and the other form comprising the completely knocked down packs which are brought to this country and then assembled. They do provide some employment in the assembly line but not very much in component manufacture. 
The rising popularity of small cars in Australia has meant a further fragmentation. This is the fundamental point. The 2 main Japanese companiesToyota and Nissan- have already made heavy inroads into the market. The market is now shared by 5 companies, but two of those companies are importers. If those 2 Japanese companies intend to raise the Australian content of their cars- that is what is proposed- that in itself will not mean a further fragmentation; it will mean that precisely the same number of companies will operate as at the present. The difference is that instead of having 3 local manufacturers and 2 importers, all of them will manufacture locally. There is no doubt that the Australian consumer has shown a liking for small cars, so surely we must try to make them here or at least manufacture those components which we can manufacture with relative efficiency. What better way is there of bringing in a 4-cylinder engine manufacturing capacity in Australia than using the unused capacity such as already exists at the engine plant of the Chrysler company at Lonsdale in South Australia? This means that the longer runs would be offset against the fixed costs of that plant which is at present under-utilised. In other words, we would be applying economies of scale. This will mean more efficiency in the production of the 4-cylinder engine and the other components manufactured at that plant such as the 6-cylinder engines being manufactured for other models. 
I should have thought that the result of this would be pretty obvious. It will mean an excellent combination of having more jobs and at the same time providing a greater efficiency through having greater economies of scale. Is this not what everybody wants? Apparently that is not what the Liberal Party wants. Apparently the Opposition is against the manufacture of a 4- cylinder engine in Australia. Apparently the Opposition wants to abdicate this expanding small car market in favour of imports. That might be what the Opposition wants, but it is not what the Government wants. I do not think we should get the idea that reliance on the importation of small cars will help Ford or GMH. If 6-cylinder car sales are declining, what comfort is it to Ford and GMH, or Chrysler for that matter, to be told that it is imports which are eroding their market? Contrary to what has been said by the honourable member for Corangamite, the Australian Government plan will not mean further fragmentation. I remind the honourable member, if he does not already know, that Toyota and Nissan already have their assembly plants in Melbourne. 
In conclusion I would like to make one point very clear. The Government's plan, if implemented, will not just mean more jobs in South Australia; it will mean more jobs in Victoria as well, if Toyota and Nissan enter the 85 per cent plan which was announced by the Government last November. It is not just a question of more engines or the 4 cylinder engines being made in Australia because many other motor vehicle components will also have to be manufactured in Australia if the requirements of the 85 per cent plan are to be met. This will give a boost to component manufacturers not only in South Australia but in Victoria as well. Under existing arrangements it will also give a further boost to the assembly plants of the Japanese companies in Melbourne because at the present time they are limited to assembling c.k.d. packs. These companies of course, are limited in what they can do because of the import quotas that apply to their operations as well as to fully assembled imports. If they get into the 85 per cent plan, surely there will be increased capacity and increased employment not only for the component manufacturers but also in the assembly plants in Melbourne. So this will be of benefit to everyone. 
I believe that the outlook under the Australian Labor Government's proposal is very good. I believe that we will be able to dispense with import quotas. This would be important to Japan which is one of our trading partners. We have to remember that we have products that we want to sell on the Japanese market. We also believe that under this plan we will be promoting an efficient car industry which will be fully competitive with imports. The Labor Government's policy means an efficient industry, a competitive industry, which will provide more employment and, for that matter, more Australian ownership through the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Furthermore, the plan will provide the cars that the Australian people want. 
The Government supports the economy of South Australia. It has given great and very heartwarming support to the motor industry in South Australia, an industry which is absolutely vital and critical to that State. But I warn South Australians to look out because under what has been espoused by the Liberal Party spokesman they cannot expect much support from the Liberal Party on this matter. Indeed, if the statements are to be taken at face value, the policy of the Liberal Party means disaster for the economy of South Australia. 
I believe that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  is a rather cynical effort to undermine the whole bill and to bring us back to the situation we were in before. I hope that the majority of honourable members will not fall for it. Members of the House who, at the second reading stage of the Bill, were requiring the permanent upholding of marriage in the interests of what they believe community standards ought to be are now crying tears of blood about how there ought to be instant grounds for divorce if somebody finds himself in an intolerable situation. If this amendment is passed we will be back to the situation of a 24 months waiting period- a period which is quite unnecessary and quite intolerable for most people- with 2 letouts. One let-out deals with consent and would enable the waiting time to be reduced from 24 months to 12 months; the other gives virtual instant divorce on grounds of fault. 
What would happen in the case of consent? If somebody agrees to consent, the period of separation required can be reduced from 24 months to 12 months. It is likely that the consent will be given, but it is usually given with conditions. Honourable members may want to know by whom the consent is given. The deserted party in a marriage usually would consent if it were just a question of ending the marriage, because very rarely does the deserted party want to preserve the marriage anyway; the argument is all about the settlement of property, custody and maintenance, and the question of consent could be introduced only as a bogus factor. The deserted party might say: 'I will agree to consent, provided of course that I get all the house, all the property, and that the maintenance conditions are subject to my vetting and are completely satisfactory to me '; in other words, intimidation and arm twisting. Therefore, consent as a condition for shortening the period of separation would, I believe, be completely unsatisfactory. In fact, I would say that the condition of consent always applies if people really are concerned only as to whether the marriage should be dissolved or not. The deserted party, in actual practice- except possibly in the most rare of rare cases- does not really desire to preserve the marriage. 
I refer now to the question of fault. We are asked to reintroduce the whole question of fault because people can find themselves in an intolerable situation. Clause 1 14 of the Bill provides that an injunction can be obtained for relief from an intolerable situation- perhaps when somebody is married to a wife-beater, when somebody brings his mistress home and puts his wife into the spare room, or something like that. If we pass the Bill in its original form this fault provision will not be introduced as a phoney ground for divorce. What worries me is that if the period of 2 years were agreed to it would be such an intolerably long time that people would look around for an escape clause; they would drum up phoney conditions, such as the consent one or the fault one, and we would be back to the situation of perjury, conspiracy or all sorts of phoney things which would be used to get around this intolerable waiting period of 2 years. This is not reasonable. I am waiting for somebody to give examples to show that 12 months separation is not enough to establish that a marriage has irretrievably broken down, and that 2 years is. I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  mentioned one case. Perhaps that is one hypothetical case. But should we penalise 99.9 per cent of people just because of the 0.1 per cent of people who might be the exception to the rule? I believe that if we pass this amendment we will be back to an intolerable situation. I hope that the Committee will throw it right out. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration refers to the reported continuing increase in housing costs. Is this continuing rise in building costs in any way due to shortages either of building workers or of building materials? If so, will the Minister explain whether the Government has any manpower proposals for the building industry which will marry the wish of workers to find jobs to the wish of families to buy houses? Is it not a fact that any such manpower schemes would be greatly facilitated by a system of permanency for building workers? If this is so, will consideration be given to a permanency system? 
I ask a question of the Acting Treasurer. Is he in a position to say how large the Australian Wool Corporation stockpile has become with a floor price of 250c per kilogram? Would further stockpiling and storage have to be financed by printing money? Does he know of any industry which has ever been made efficient by insulating it from market forces? 
I am raising this matter of public importance to draw to the attention of the House and the public the attitude of certain health funds which are making a sly attempt to mislead their contributors, both in relation to the provisions which will be made for Medibank after 30 June and, therefore, the best course of action that contributors should take after 30 June with regard to membership of private health insurance funds. What the funds have failed to do so far is the culmination of a protracted series of actions designed to frustrate the smooth introduction of Medibank. 
I remind the House that the Government's health insurance proposals have been put to the electorate as part of its election policy in the last 3 House of Representatives elections. Those proposals were endorsed by the electorate at the elections both in 1972 and 1974. The controllers of these private health funds are, therefore, acting anti-democratically by trying to frustrate the program of the elected Government. I emphasise the word 'controllers' because it is most important when talking about the health funds to distinguish between the controllers and the contributors. The hapless contributors, of course, comprise most members of the public. Since the introduction of the present health scheme, which was introduced by  Sir Earle  Page under the Menzies Government in the 1950s, people have been forced virtually to belong to a voluntary health insurance fund. On the medical side they have had to belong to the fund, otherwise they would not receive the Commonwealth benefit. Not only would they not receive a fund benefit if they did not belong to an insurance fund but also they would not get the Government benefit. Therefore, they were blackmailed virtually into belonging to the private health insurance funds. 
The same practice applied on the hospital side.  Sir Earle  Page, as the Treasurer in a LiberalCountry Party Government, required the State governments to charge fees even for public hospitals. Contributors had to belong to those funds if they were to get back in rebates amounts paid as hospital fees. It was not only the fund benefit that they were to get; to get their full Commonwealth benefit of $2 a day, they had to belong to a fund. If they did not belong to a fund they received a Commonwealth benefit of only 80c a day. Therefore, the contributors were blackmailed into belonging to medical and hospital funds under the system that endures to the present day. When I refer to contributors to the funds I am speaking of virtually all members of the public. I ask honourable members to contrast their position with that of the controllers of the private funds. These are a very small cabal of people not representative of the contributors but in many cases are representative of the organised medical profession, answerable to nobody and never consulting the contributors whom they are supposed to serve. Because people were obliged to belong to these funds under the Earle Page scheme, the people controlling the funds found themselves suddenly in control of very large amounts of the public's money. It could scarcely be called a voluntary donation for the reason I have stressed, because people virtually had to belong to a health fund to get the Commonwealth benefit. 
Surely, therefore, the controllers of these funds had a solemn responsibility as custodians of the public's money to see that these funds were used properly. I would suggest that this responsibility on the part of the controllers of the health funds has been abrogated in the past and right up to the present time with regard to the transition into Medibank. Repeatedly, action has been taken contrary to the best interests of contributors and without consulting the contributors to those funds. 
Let me put to the House what would have been a reasonable course of action for the funds to take with the approach of Medibank. I suggest that it would have been reasonable for them, first of all, to have been quite candid and to have told their contributors what they would get from Medibank. The funds could have told their contributors that they would receive an 85 per cent rebate on the standard fee of general practitioners and specialists. The funds also could have told their contributors that this rebate would be available to pensioner patients as well as to everyone else in the community, unlike the rebate under the present voluntary health scheme. The funds could have told their contributors that doctors' fees would be covered not only for consultations in consulting rooms and for specialist investigations but also for doctors' visits when patients are in hospital. The funds could have advised their contributors that contributors in participating States under Medibank no longer would have to pay contributions if they went into a public hospital ward. The funds could have told their contributors that if they were private patients the Commonwealth benefit would increase from $2 a day to $ 1 8 a day if they stayed in the fund. But the funds did not go to any pains to point out what this would have meant to their contributors in the form of lower contributions after 30 June. 
I should think that the second reasonable thing that the funds could have done would have been to propose to the Department of Social Security reduced contributions levels in the hospital tables. Applications have been made; but they have been made very belatedly, only a few weeks before Medibank is supposed to be introduced. No question of reduced contributions was raised by the funds until the very recent past, in the last couple of weeks. The funds could have provided for lower contribution rates for hospital insurance, they could have provided for a separate table, and they could have pointed out what they were seeking to do with their new medical benefit table, which was to cover the 15 per cent gap between the rebate and the standard fee. 
The third reasonable thing that the funds might have done but have not done would have been to advise the public well in advance of what these new tables would be and what the people would have to contribute if they wanted to be, say, private patients or public patients in hospital, or whatever. Fourthly, I believe that what the funds should have done was to announce 30 June as a cut-off date, at which time all the contribution revenue and all the reserves of the funds would be consolidated, put into liquid form, and a rebate given to all the people who had contributed to the funds in the years and months up to 30 June 1975. I stress this point, which is very important, and I hope that the Minister for Social Security will do what he can to ensure that the public will get back the money which is left over in these funds and which contributors have been forced to pay for so many years. 
What have the funds done, in fact? Despite the important changes that will occur, many funds have been sending their usual accounts to contributors, making no mention at all of the new arrangements. They have sent out accounts for continued full medical and hospital contributions for the period beyond 30 June, despite the fact that those levels of contribution would no longer be necessary after that time. Accounts were sent out as though Medibank did not exist. There was no mention that the Commonwealth hospital benefit would rise from $2 a day to $ 1 8 a day. There was no mention of the fact that, after 30 June, Medibank would cover up to 85 per cent of the standard fee or leave a $5 gap, whichever was the greater, for people having medical consultations. Of course, what the funds have actually done is to decide to continue their hospital tables for private patients and to provide, as I have said, cover for the 15 per cent between the rebate and the standard fee. Of course, this would mean that, after 30 June, if people belonging to private funds stayed in the hospital fund, their contribution would be much less, and, of course, their medical contribution would be very much less because nearly everything will be covered under Medibank. 
However, the accounts went out, and the funds made no effort at the outset to explain what the situation was. In other words, the funds are misleading the public in an attempt to get people to continue their private insurance automatically after 1 July. It was only after the accounts went out that some of the funds advised their contributors of the new rates which would be offered. In other words, contributors were encouraged to over-pay, and not until after they had over-paid did the funds advise them that refunds could be obtained or that the amount could be credited, say, to a hospital fund. In many cases the refund can be obtained only by special request, and in some cases people would have to go to the headquarters of the fund and complete a form. Surely the onus should operate in the other way: The money- reserves and allshould have been refunded automatically to the people and the people should have been able to belong to the fund after 1 July if they wanted to do so. (Quorum formed) The Department of Social Security has now told the funds that they should not collect medical contributions to cover periods after 1 July. Some funds have complied with this. However, others have not done so and are collecting contributions for periods after 30 June, as though Medibank will not exist. 
Surely it is utterly deceitful for the funds to behave in this fashion. Unless contributors are on the alert, they may be paying amounts to the private funds unnecessarily. Surely the controllers of these funds, as controllers of public money, should protect the rights of the public. Personally, I believe that the funds should be made to go further and refund all the contributions and reserves held at 30 June, or when the State concerned becomes a participating State under Medibank. The funds should rule the line at 30 June, because they have built up large reserves from people who have had to contribute to them and that means that those reserves are now the property of the people who have contributed in past years. Now that many people no longer will wish to insure, surely they are entitled to get some of their money back. 
It is utterly ridiculous that the funds have been able to act as though they were a law unto themselves, without adequate government control and without contributor control. The poor old contributors are never consulted. The position is similar to that which operated when the Government invited the funds to act as agents for Medibank. On that occasion the funds merely announced that they would not act as agents for Medibank; they made that decision without consulting their contributors. Finally, some funds did make a statement about reduced contributions. There was a statement in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 16 May, in which the  President  of the South Australian Association of Health Benefits Organisations,  Mr W.  K. Moon, announced that there would be reduced contributions. However, in that statement he made no effort to separate medical and hospital contributions and he tried to pretend that the whole thing would continue in the same sort of package as had applied previously. The statement was completely misleading. But I take it it was printed verbatim by  Mr Barry  Hailstone, who rejoices in the title of medical writer for the 'Advertiser'. Obviously he has no understanding of the Medibank scheme, because he seems to accept uncritically everything that is handed to him by way of Press release from  Mr Moon.  This extraordinary power that the private funds have is a result of the collusion on the part of previous Liberal governments and the present Oppositioncontrolled Senate. There is no accountability in spite of the efforts of the Labor Party when in opposition to provide accountability for these funds to the Parliament. The Government still has not power to control the activities of the funds except by deregistration, which obviously is an extreme measure to have to take and would disadvantage contributors. But that state of affairs we can blame on the Oppositioncontrolled Senate which resisted the attempts by this Government to have adequate power over the funds to protect the public's money. I cannot understand why the Opposition in this place persists in what I regard as a diabolical attempt to protect the people in charge of these funds, contrary to the interests of the members of the general public. I hope that if the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  speaks after me on this issue he will join me in denouncing this reprehensible effort on the part of the controllers of the funds. I hope he will co-operate in ensuring that members of the public have adequate control over and adequate access to their own money which they have been forced to contribute to these funds for many years under the iniquitous voluntary health schemes started under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has he received a report of the committee of inquiry into the preservation of Hallett Cove in South Australia? If so, has he decided upon any action pursuant to that report? 
I ask the Treasurer: Is it not a fact that Medibank obviates the need for private medical and hospital fund contributions? Is it not a fact that the resulting additions to disposable incomes more than offset any increase in the cost of living from increased postal charges and indirect imposts? Will the Treasurer seek advice from the Australian Bureau of Statistics as to whether this substantial reduction in household expenses will be reflected in a reduction in the consumer price index? 
Can the Prime Minister give an unequivocal assurance that the Government is opposed to acquisition by Australia of nuclear weapons? Will the Prime Minister also affirm Australian support for the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty? 
-First of all, I want to comment on some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  I take it that he was criticising the Government for being rather niggardly in the increased dispensing fees which have been handed out to the pharmacy profession. If that is the case, if anything I would criticise what has happened for precisely the opposite reason. I think that we have been over-generous towards the pharmacy profession and I would like greater consideration to be given to the fact that since the introduction of Medibank a fee fo 50c a claim is being given to pharmacists for submitting claims to Medibank. In addition, there seems to be a large increase in the number of claims per patient compared with the number before the introduction of Medibank. In other words, there is some suggestion that pharmacists are encouraging patients to make a separate claim for each individual medical item because they make 50c on each claim. So if there is any criticism to be made it is that the Government has been too generous. I hope that when the time comes to examine the next increase in dispensing fees some regard will be given to the fact that this 50c is paid for each Medibank claim. 
Superficially, the question we are discussing today is whether we should raise the charges for prescriptions in order to recoup the extra cost in the dispensing fee which is being paid to pharmacists. But I think that much more basic questions have to be considered, such as whether our community is much too oriented towards and hooked on the taking of pills, and whether the best way to do something about that is by increasing the charge. I believe that if we weigh the good against the bad overall the community will be well served by the increase in the prescription charge which is being made. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  suggested that an increase in the prescription charge might lead to a reduction in the number of prescriptions. If he and the House look at the volume of prescriptions prescribed after the prescription charge was increased from 50c to $1 in 1971 they will find that there was a plateau. Before that, each year the volume of prescriptions written under the national health scheme had risen steadily, but after the charge was increased from 50c to $1 the volume formed a plateau for some 12 months and then started to rise again. I think that probably we will find that now there will be a reduction- certainly a reduction in the rate of increase- in the number of prescriptions which are given by doctors and which are dispensed. I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Prospect that this will do much more good than harm. 
We are reaching the stage where the increased use of drugs starts to show diminishing returns. Obviously one cannot gainsay many of the tremendous improvements that have been made, particularly the very great advances in the treatment of tropical diseases with the development of some of the anti-helminthics and other drugs for treating parasite-caused tropical diseases. However, in an industrialised community such as ours we have to look at whether there are diminishing returns from increased drug use. As the honourable member for Prospect suggested, we may even be reaching a point of negative marginal return for additional prescriptions. I was a member of the House of Representatives select committee which reported on pharmaceutical benefits. It was a good report and I commend it to honourable members. I especially commend the report by a minority of one at the back of the main report. 
Modesty prevents me from saying who was the author of die minority report. Needless to say, it commanded the usual sized minority that my suggestions do. Nonetheless, when the Committee was reporting I drew attention to the fact that over the 1960s the drugs which had the greatest volume of increase were the drugs for treating bronchospasm- that is asthma- the anticholinergic drugs, used mainly for duodenal ulcers, and tranquillisers. It seems to me not without some significance that all these drugs are used to treat conditions which have a very high psychosomatic content. I believe that we cannot abstract the importance of this aspect from the type of society in which we live. If some of the enormous amount of money being spent on drugs treating various conditions that are part of the way of life of industrialised society were spent on research into the type of environment which is producing those conditions, and if social and political action were taken to rectify that climate, the funds might be very much better spent. 
However, I believe that what we are faced with in the present Bill- an increase in the prescription charges- will probably cause a reduction in the number of prescriptions. That will be good. The only problem, of course, is that there are some people on low incomes with chronic diseases who might be faced with a very large bill which they cannot handle. This is always the problem. It is very difficult to reconcile the problem of these people and the object of the increase in the prescription charges. I think we ought to have a look at alternative systems of trying to deter doctors, chemists and patients from the over-use of drugs. I think that as an expedient the increase in the prescription charge is necessary, but We must try to find better ways of achieving our aim so that we do not penalise people who genuinely have a chronic illness and who can get great symptomatic relief from drugs which are expensive because they require a large number of them and have to pay $1.50 for each prescription. 
Some of the things we could look at include a selective rebate system. Perhaps we could require all patients to pay a certain proportion of their annual drug bill but vary the proportion according to a person's income. I think we should have a look at the proposal of health maintenance organisations for a pre-paid health insurance scheme under which a fixed amount is paid and there is an incentive on the part of the people providing the service to keep the costs of the scheme down. Medical, hospital and pharmaceutical costs are kept at a minimum and benefits could be paid as a dividend to the provider of the service or perhaps as a rebate to those people who contribute to the scheme. All of this proposition is perfectly feasible under Medibank, but that really is a separate issue. 
However, as a temporary expedient, I believe that the proposed increase in prescription charges is a highly desirable thing. I support the Bill, but I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and the Government to start looking around for more effective ways of deterring the over-use of drugs than financial penalties which can selectively hit low income earners with chronic illnesses or with large families. 
-The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has pointed out that critical to the strategy of this Budget is the psychology or the expectations of the corporate sector. He has claimed that the expectations in certain parts of the corporate sector have not improved as a result of the Budget. If that is the case, I suggest that certain people in the corporate sector do not have a full understanding of what is provided for companies in the 1975-76 Budget. I would like to see all partiesthe Government and the Opposition- try to explain the position because I think that if it were explained it could do a great deal to improve considerably the expectations of the corporate sector and thus to restore economic growth and full employment. I will say something about that in more detail in a moment. 
I believe that the Budget deserves the support of every Australian. It has been framed in extraordinarily difficult circumstances, with concurrent inflation and unemployment. We know that the conventional fiscal measures that have been taken in the past to overcome inflation most likely would result in an increase in unemployment. On the other hand, if we take measures primarily to diminish the rate of unemployment by fiscal stimulation, by Budget deficit, we are faced with the threat of hyperinflation. So, with the conjunction of inflation and unemployment, it has been very difficult. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has applied himself to the problems objectively, realistically and most conscientiously. He has examined the options and has arrived at a strategy which is the only possible one in the circumstances. I believe that he deserves the congratulations of all people. I believe that he deserves the support of everybody in the community. 
There are some signs, notwithstanding the views of members of the Opposition, of recovery in the economy. They are not signs of a strong recovery. Nobody is trying to convince the people that that is so. However, there is evidence. In the last 6 months, there has been an actual increase in gross national product of 5.4 per cent, a very great improvement on the figures for the first 6 months of the financial year 1974-75. There has been a very great run-down in stocks. Therefore, we can expect an increase in production irrespective of whether demand increases. The aim of the Budget is to reinforce these signs of recovery and to try to promote recovery in employment and in production. 
Fundamental to these goals, we recognise, is the need to promote confidence in the corporate sector, so that we will be able to control the rate of inflation and to restore some expectation of profitability. The Treasurer has pointed out that the rapid control of inflation, whilst theoretically possible, cannot be done except at a very great social and economic cost to the community. But what can be done is to prevent hyper-inflation and to provide some degree of predictability in the economic climate. I believe that most people probably are not prepared to make investment decisions if they believe that the country will face a hyper-inflationary situation. However, if the economic situation can be reasonably controlled, if we can have some measure of predictability and a modest reduction in the rate of inflation, we will have the type of economic climate which we seek. 
To do this, the Government has sought to reduce the Budget deficit below the size it otherwise would have been, and to provide tax relief for companies and individuals. There are those people who say that the size of the Budget deficit does not matter. Some of the principal proponents of this view are members of the so-called Adelaide school of economic thought, of which I am not one. The size of the deficit does matter. Whether it matters on paper is one aspect, but the fact is that many people believe that it is very important. 
Inflationary expectations are paramount here and we cannot just consider what might happen on an economic equation; we must consider the psychological impact of it. There had to be a substantial reduction in the deficit. Very great restraint is taking place in the expansion of Government expenditure to achieve that end. A great deal has been done to provide tax relief to individuals and to companies. The rate of company tax has been reduced from 45 per cent to 42  Vi  per cent. 
Another measure relates to a double depreciation allowance, which has been extended in time and ambit. I believe quite sincerely that these proposals are superior to those contained in the report of the Mathews Committee. It is all very easy for the Leader of the Opposition glibly to assert that he would introduce the Mathews Committee proposals in relation to company tax. But I believe that he has not looked at the very great difficulties involved in this action, that is, the practical difficulties with which companies would be faced plus the fact, that, in certain cases, companies could be worse off. 
For instance, the introduction of a system of depreciation on replacement value would mean that those companies which now depreciate on a fixed percentage basis- that is, a diminishing amount in absolute terms- in order to maximise their benefit, would have to change over to a system of straight line depreciation. But, if they do that, it means that their liquidity situation in the early years of operation of the plant would be made worse. This would have precisely the opposite effect to what we are trying to achieve at present. A similar situation applies with respect to stock value adjustment If people are to be able to subtract a certain amount as a result of an up-valuation of stocks as a result of inflation, it should follow logically that in times when the value of stocks declines there would need to be an upward adjustment of the company tax payable. In other words, at a time of slump, companies would be faced with an increased tax liability which would be precisely the opposite of the effect we want to achieve. The Government's proposals for double depreciation of plant provide a clearly tangible benefit to companies. This is something they can readily understand. This action will have the effect that we want, that is, to encourage investment in and the replacement of equipment. This must have a very great multiplier effect in stimulating employment and production. 
I wish to read into the record a quotation from an article by  Mr Kenneth  Davidson which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 29 August, 
Friday last, in which  Mr Davidson  discussed the alternative Budget proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The article reads: 
He may have overlooked that corporate cash flows will already be more than $ 1,000m higher than last year. This is because Government company tax revenues will be down $200m this financial year, thanks to the 2.S per cent tax cut and the low level of taxable income last year on which this year's tax payments are based. 
As well, company cash flows will be boosted by a further $ 1,000m from higher incomes if the 5 percent plus growth in the private sector forecast by the Treasury is achieved. 
The additional cash flow, plus a continuation of easy monetary policies, should be sufficient to finance a recovery which is prudent in the circumstances. 
On the personal tax side, again there has been very substantial and radical tax reform, a matter of very great social importance. On the economic side, it also has very great importance as a basis for the successful continuation of the Government's proposals for wage indexation. It has been said by spokesmen for the Australian Council of Trade Unions- I would agree with the proposition- that tax indexation is a necessary prerequisite if wage indexation is to be a goer. The fact is that in this Budget the number of steps in the tax schedule has been halved. We see that the marginal rate of tax on a taxable income between $5,000 and $10,000 is now constant at 35c in the $1. Let us not forget that over half of Australia's taxpayers are in this income bracket. Therefore, the marginal rate of tax paid by a person receiving in excess of $100 a week will not increase until that income exceeds $200 a week. This is a very substantial step forward as it provides  de facto  tax indexation to more than half of Australia's taxpayers. 
At this stage, I would like to refute completely the ridiculous proposition of the Leader of the Opposition who says that it is not the marginal rate of taxation that matters, but the average rate. Remember we are talking about the effects of the marginal wage increases. We are talking about the marginal propensity of workers to work overtime or to gain additional income from any source, and incentive effect. Obviously when we are making marginal decisions on wages for work it is the marginal rate of tax which is relevant. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition had no grounds for his claim.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that the assertion by the Leader of the Opposition that in considering the rate of tax the average rate of tax should be considered rather than the marginal rate of tax is a claim for which there is no substance. He did not try to substantiate it. 
As to the increases in charges in indirect taxes, it is true that this could have the effect of raising the consumer price index. However, I put it to the House that the effect of this is more than offset by the introduction of Medibank. It should be realised, although I think a lot of people do not realise it, that public hospitals no longer charge fees and that it is no longer necessary to belong to a private health insurance fund if one goes to a public hospital in the participating States. This means that unless people want to insure specifically for private hospital accommodation, private health insurance is no longer necessary. In my home State of South Australia a person who previously belonged to family rate table 7 will get a saving of $4.53 a week which in most cases would more than offset any increase in the consumer price index arising from increased taxes and charges. 
I suggest that there is one area where some saving in the Budget might be made. It is in relation to one aspect of Medibank- it is perhaps the most important aspect of it- and that is doctors' fees. At the last hearing of the one-man fees tribunal- that is,  Mr Macintosh-  set up by the previous Minister for Social Security, now the Treasurer, the doctors were awarded a fee increase of 4.2 per cent. Presumably this was to compensate for increases in the cost of living. However, I am sure that  Mr Macintosh  failed to take into account that as from 1 July, with the introduction of Medibank, doctors treating pensioners would be receiving 85 per cent of the common fee as opposed to 60 per cent which they were receiving under the previous pensioner medical service. 
Let us not forget that pensioner medical service patients provided 25 per cent to 30 per cent of doctors' incomes. The tribunal chose to disregard this and awarded a fee increase of 4.2 per cent, a decision which in my view was absolutely preposterous. In justice the fees should have been reduced. I hope that when the matter comes up again for review on 1 January this aspect will be taken into account. I hope also that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who was sounding off over the weekend about the cost of Medibank, will go along to the tribunal hearing and support the proposal that the increased incomes of doctors as a result of these increased payments in respect of pensions be taken into account. So much for the economic side of the Budget. 
As a social document the Budget has tremendous importance particularly in the areas of tax reform by way of the introduction of flat rebates for expenditure at the rate of 40c in the dollar and also the introduction of a minimum rebate of $540 irrespective of expenditure on the deductible items. A lot of attention has been given to the fact that people on high incomes received favourable treatment under the old concessional deduction system because they had a higher marginal rate of tax. For example, under the old system a person earning $10,000 a year and spending $200 a year on chemists' bills was entitled to a deduction of 48c in the dollar in respect of those bills and would have made a tax saving of $96. A person on $6,000 a year spending the same amount on chemists' bills was entitled to a deduction of 32c in the dollar because he was on a lower marginal rate of tax.  His  tax saving would have been $64. So under the old scheme there was a considerable inequity favouring the person on a high income. 
There is another aspect of this which is equally important. The person on the lower income is less likely to be able to spend that $200 on chemists' bills so he would not have been able to take advantage of that limited tax saving because he would not have been able to afford that extra expenditure on deductible items. That matter is referred to in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition who said: 
The system of rebates, as it has been implemented, amounts to a cancellation of deductions for health and dental expenses, school fees and so forth for taxpayers who claim less than $1,350. The deductions were originally designed to encourage people to provide for themselves and their children, and that is a proper objective of government. The rebate system, as it has been implemented, is designed to encourage taxpayers to leave it to the State, and that is the objective of the Australian Labor Party. 
What the Leader of the Opposition is saying is that people should be allowed to take full advantage of the tax concessions and that if they spend an extra amount they should get the full benefit. I would like to stand that assertion on its head. What the Government is saying is that people should be allowed to get some rebate even if they could not afford to spend the full amount of the rebate. In other words, even if a person could afford to spend only $100 on chemists' bills he would still be able to attract the minimum rebate. This is a most important provision. Every person with up to a maximum of $1,350 in deductions will be able to take advantage of this provision. People will not be disadvantaged because they cannot afford to spend as much as people on higher incomes on chemists ' bills, dentists ' bills, council rates and other deductible items. Of course, this means a much more egalitarian system. 
No wonder it was so viciously attacked by the Leader of the Opposition who referred to the 
Australian Labor Party's policies as enforced equality. Note the pejorative word 'enforced'. I would have thought that equality was a very worthy objective. Obviously the Leader of the Opposition does not share that view and tries to cloud the issue by using the expression 'enforced equality'. Obviously what the Leader of the Opposition favours- and he makes no secret of it- is enforced inequality. I really wonder whether all those honourable members who sit behind him subscribe to that view, but that is the prevailing ethic of the Liberal and National Country Parties at the present time. It is quite obvious that on his recent visit to Australia Professor Milton Friedman did an extremely good con job on Opposition members because they have swallowed his social Darwinist line hook, line and sinker. It is interesting that recently the Leader of the Opposition said he was going to introduce a scheme-  (Quorum formed).  I have run out of time. It is obvious that the Opposition wants every Government member to have 15 minutes speaking time as against their twenty. They can go to hell. 
-The subject we are discussing at the request of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is 'The impact of Government policies on employment in the building industry, home ownership and rental accommodation'. In a way this is a very timely subject for discussion because it is obvious that the policies of the Government will have a favourable impact on employment in the building industry, on home ownership and on rental accommodation. Not only are those policies designed to have a favourable impact on housing in Australia but also it is apparent that they are beginning to have a most beneficial effect. At this time the benefits are showing in statistics for approvals and commencements in the private building industry. Interest rates for housing loans are coming down, not to mention the large amount of money made available under the Commonwealth-State housing agreement at an interest rate of 4 per cent, a rate far lower than that provided in the agreement negotiated by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in which the honourable member for Boothby served. 
Also at this time the Government has removed the inequities between various consumers in the housing industry. It is continuing assistance to the home buyer through the provision of a taxation deduction for home mortgage interest and at this time the rate of increase in the wholesale building materials price index is starting to come down substantially. In rebuttal of the point made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  unemployment in the building industy in August was less than it was in July, the Government's policies outlined in the Budget strategy by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  are designed to promote confidence in the private sector by making a real effort to stabilise the rate of inflation and gradually- I emphasise the word 'gradually'- to reduce the rate of inflation, but not so suddenly as to cause trauma to the private sector. The policy is designed to bring about a reduction in costs in the building industry and a reduction in interest rates. By the policy of restraint in government expenditure coupled with wage indexation we are confident that the Budget strategy will be effective not only in the economy generally but also in its benefits to the housing industry which, as I said, is already showing considerable improvement. 
The seasonally adjusted figure for last January was 8 100 private housing approvals and it rose in August to 10 843. Perhaps a better parameter would be commencements. The June quarter figure for private commencements was 28 200, seasonally adjusted, and this compares with 25 400 for the December quarter last year. In my own State of South Australia public housing completions were up 1 8.7 per cent last year compared with the year before. In 1974-75 the number of houses under construction in the housing sector was up 45.3 per cent on the year before and houses built under contract for the South Australian Housing Trust increased by 30 per cent over the previous year. As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  pointed out, the rates of interest for housing generally are coming down. Also we have brought in substantial restructuring of the tax schedule, which will enable many families to purchase houses. 
I think it is worth having a look at the result of some of the policies espoused by our Opposition and its Liberal counterparts in the States. It is obvious that the Labor Government is concerned to promote a greater degree of equity and to give a fairer go to those people who cannot afford to buy a house or who, for one reason or another, are unwilling to purchase a house. We realise that something must be done to give the person who pays rent a better go. I would suggest that this has happened by means of the Budget proposal for a $540 tax rebate irrespective of whether expenses such as council rates are incurred. It was suggested in the report of the Priorities Review Staff that the tax concession for council rates should be abolished. In fact, that is now not necessary. Previously we had a situation of inequity where people who owned their own houses received tax concessions on council rates, although that concession was not available to people who paid rent. The situation now is that this flat tax rebate is available to people whether they pay rent or whether they own their own houses. That flat tax rebate covers tax deductions up to the amount of $1,350. It is interesting to note that this idea has been strenuously resisted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is quite obvious that the Liberal and National Country parties seek to perpetuate the gross unjust inequalities which operate against people who pay rent. I suggest that this very important reform which the Labor Government has introduced in the Budget will do something to restore a more equitable situation and to give a better go to people who pay rent. 
Honourable members should look at the records of the State housing commissions in those States which have Liberal governments. It is quite obvious that the Liberal governments in those States have a conscious policy of cruel discrimination against people who pay rent. In 1 973-74 the total number of rental homes owned by the Victorian Housing Commission actually declined. It built 894 houses and sold 1181 houses. What a great achievement that is! Obviously the same philosophy permeates the policy of the New South Wales Government. I remember the public brawl that took place before the 1973 New South Wales State election between the head of the New South Wales Housing Commission,  Mr Bourke,  and the then Premier,  Mr Askin. Mr Bourke  was pointing out the discrimination practised by the Housing Commission against people who pay rent when the Commission sells its rental homes. He was publicly rebuked by the then Liberal Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin.  It is also worth noting that those States which are experiencing the greatest slack in the housing industry- in the public sector, anyway- are New South Wales and Queensland, States with conservative governments. The reason for that is quite obvious, and that is their great reluctance and extraordinary and inexplicable reluctance to do anything about controlling land prices. As an example of what should be done, I invite all honourable members to have a look at the highly successful policies of the Dunstan Government in South Australia in controlling land prices through its Land Commission. 
I think it is also worth examining the attitudes of the Opposition spokesman on housing matters, the honourable member for Boothby, who obviously has a very clear bias against people who pay rent or who do not own their own homes. I suppose that the honourable member will remember- I remember it- when last year he and I attended a meeting at the Adelaide Town Hall of a group rejoicing in the name of the Home Buyer's Association. The meeting was concerned with housing interest rates. I think that most people would have agreed at that time that resources were under very great strain in the housing industry. Undoubtedly the result of any further reduction in housing interest rates at that particular time would have been a further escalation in building costs. That obviously would have been of benefit to those people who already had their homes- after all, a house is an inflationproof asset- but it would have been of very great disadvantage to those people who were trying to purchase homes. I do not remember the exact words the honourable member used at that time, but I remember him interrupting me and saying: 'These people are not interested in those people who have not got homes; they only want policies which will help them'. 
I believe that we must look at the whole spectrum and not only at those people who have already got their own houses, which we must remember are inflation-proof assets. Their value probably goes up at a faster rate than the general rate of increase in prices. Any policy at that time, such as a reduction in interest rates, would have been very discriminatory against those people who pay rent, but that is obviously the sort of policy which is espoused by the spokesman for the Opposition. Now fortunately we can say that there is some restraint occurring in the increases in building costs and interest rates. The figures clearly show that the situation in the building industry and the dwelling construction industry is certainly improving, and they give every cause for optimism that it will continue to improve. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Dr GUN (Kingston)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  One thing I do remember for sure is that there was no discussion at that time of the homes savings grant scheme; it was in a completely different context. 
I want to discuss the motor vehicle industry. I would like all people from my own State of South Australia to take very careful note of the policies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because his prescription for the car industry will mean economic ruin to South Australia. The present malaise of the car industry is part of the world scene. There is a world wide slump, but there are certain unique features in Australia which are important. 
The Australian market is relatively small with 13 million people, mainly provided for by 5 companiesGeneralMotors Holden, Ford, Chrysler and those that are mainly importing, Toyota and Datsun. With a relatively small throughput for each, motor vehicle manufacturing in Australia is a high cost operation. The vast United States market, in contrast, has only 3 main SUPpliers However, the small market in Australia means that each type of locally manufactured vehicle has a relatively small run making its production relatively uneconomic. 
The trouble in Australia is compounded by the fact that two of Australia's suppliers- Toyota and Datsun- do their manufacturing outside Australia. Furthermore, the Japanese, who have specialised in small cars, have progressively eroded the market previously monopolised by the United States multinationals. There is no doubt that the Australian consumer has shown an increasing preference for small cars, with their lower initial cost and their lower fuel consumption. These stark facts were brought into the limelight with the import explosion of 1974. In other words, 3 local companies had a relatively small market. Now this is being eroded by increasing sales of tighter cars manufactured outside Australia. This obviously threatens the employment base of the Australian car industry. It is now a glaring fact that the Japanese models are here, and that is what the Australian motorist likes. If we want to retain a viable industry, the Japanese models will have to be made in Australia. Australian workers should not have to pay for the stubborn persistence of the United States multinationals in relying on 6-cylinder cars. 
In response to this situation, the Labor Government has formulated a plan whereby all the 5 Australian suppliers will manufacture vehicles in Australia, with each company averaging 85 per cent Australian content. This will involve reducing the Australian content of the 6-cylinder cars from their present 95 per cent and increasing the 4-cylinder models from their present Australian content which is now at a level of about 45 per cent. The cornerstone of this plan is the manufacture of 4-cylinder engines at Lonsdale in South Australia. The project is intended to be launched by a consortium of 4 parts- Chrysler, Toyota, Datsun and the Australian Government. With an annual output of about 200 000 engines there will be great opportunities for economies of scale. This will lay the ground for an economically viable vehicle industry making the cars which consumers want. 
There will thus be 5 main companies still sharing the market, but there will be significant differences compared with the present situation. Firstly, there will be rationalisation of componentry with at least 3 companies having their 4-cylinder engines cast, machined and assembled at the one plant. Secondly, we will be manufacturing those components in Australia which we can manufacture most effectively. Thirdly, the light cars- that is, the cars in the growth sector of the industry- will be made here and not imported. 
One would have thought that the merits of this plan are self-evident. However, the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition spokesman on labour matters,  Mr Street,  have continually attacked the Government's proposal and seem to be calling for the retention of the plan which was inherited from  Sir John  McEwen, that is, a 95 per cent content for the medium car range and importing the light cars. They have even attacked the concept of a 4-cylinder engine plant at Lonsdale in South Australia. It is not clear whether Liberal policy means that the light cars will be imported or whether quotas will be imposed to protect the United States multinationals. Either option would be disastrous. If the 6-cylinder models are kept at 95 per cent local content their already high cost will become prohibitive, not to mention the high cost of fuel for these petrol guzzlers. 
If the 4-cylinder models are allowed to be freely imported they will continue to erode the employment base of the Australian car industry. On the other hand, if quotas apply to the lighter cars, we will be saying to the Australian consumer: 'You are only allowed to buy the 6- cylinder models'. With such protection, cars manufactured here would become more costly still. The result Will be that the consumer will respond by not buying a car at all, or buying a car much less frequently. With declining sales against fixed and rising costs, the companies will respond by further price increases, followed by further sales resistance, and so the cycle will go on. The final result would be that the jobs of vehicle builders in Australia would be very gravely threatened. And that is not all that would be threatened. Think of the effect of closing the Austalian market to Japan, our most important export market. 
The people of my own State of South Australia need no reminder of the importance to them of the car industry. I hope all South Australians realise that the Liberal Party policy means disaster for the economy of the State. The Labor Government's plan is absolutely crucial for the prosperity of South Australia but it is not just South Australia which will benefit. Remember that Toyota and Datsun already have assembly plants in Victoria. The encouragement of light car manufacture will sustain their operations. Indeed, it Will probably mean that they will expand. Not only that, but bringing the Australian content of light cars up to 85 per cent will greatly benefit Australian component manufacturers and, of course, their employees. The Labor Government's car plan will lay the basis for an efficient and economic industry. Because the industry Will be making the cars consumers want, it will be safeguarding their jobs. Not only that, the plan will promote good relations with Japan, our No. 1 trading partner. 
It is absurd to argue that we must prevent the establishment of a further manufacturing plant in Australia. The Japanese cars are here already, but the manufacturing is outside Australia. We can only accommodate to this situation by saying: 'Yes, continue to supply the Australian market, but build here in Australia. ' No South Australian can afford to neglect the attempt of the Leader of the Opposition to drive the South Australia industry to the wall and exclude the Japanese. The effect of a downturn in the car industry will affect every South Australian. It is of no use for those not in the industry itself to shrug their shoulders and say: 'I'm not in the car industry, I'm all right, Jack'. If the car plants in South Australia close up, it will affect everyonetheir incomes, their property values, their job opportunities, and their children's future. The price of  Mr Fraser's  political prostitution will not only be paid by South Australia but -  (Quorum formed)  Not only will South Australia suffer under Liberal Party proposals for the car industry, but also they will be costly to all Australian motorists and have unthinkable economic and political costs for the nation as a result of a shortsighted jingoistic attitude to Japan. It is sad to see  Mr Fraser's  revival of 19th century interstate jealousy but South Australians are now forced into a position of defending their survival. At the next Federal election, whenever it may be, any South Australian who votes for  Mr Fraser's  policies will do so at his own peril. 
-In considering the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs, I wish to say something about the right of small countries to self-determination. Unfortunately, history abounds with examples of powerful countries getting together to impose their will on smaller countries and swallowing them up in their so-called spheres of interest. The situation that we have in Europe now and which has existed since World War II is the result of this imperialist practice. There is now the danger of the same thing happening in our own area with regard to East Timor. 
This year, the world has witnessed the long awaited European Security Conference, which has formalised the deal made by the superpowers at the end of World War II. The agreed division of Europe has persisted since then, but has it really been a sound basis- I think this is worth asking- for detente between the super powers? The trouble was that when this deal was made at the end of World War II no regard was given to the wishes of the people of the European nations. I believe that there is credence in the views of the late Isaac Deutscher who suggested that if the spheres of interest had not been imposed on Europe it would look much different today. I wish to quote an extract from a work of the late Isaac Deutscher. He worte: 
It is probable that had there been no Teheran and Yalta compacts, western rather than eastern Europe would have become the theatre of revolution- especially France and Italy, where the authority of the old ruling classes was in ruins, the working classes were in revolt, and the Communist parties led the bulk of the armed Resistance. Stalin, acting on his diplomatic commitments, prevailed upon the French and Italian Communists to resign themselves to the restoration  of  capitalism in their countries from the virtual collapse and even to co-operate in the restoration. At the same time, Churchill and Roosevelt induced the bourgeois ruling groups of eastern Europe to submit to Russia's preponderance and consequently to surrender to revolution. On both sides of the great divide the interational balance of power swamped the class struggle. As in the Napoleonic era, revolution and counter-revolution alike were the byproducts of arms and diplomacy. 
I do not wish to disparage the gains made to Europe and to the whole world by the European Security Conference, but I cannot resist the idea that if the countries of eastern and western Europe had been allowed to determine their own future rather than to have it imposed upon them by outside powers, the European Security Conference might never have been necessary. The situation is no different from the Congress of Vienna of 1814 when the imperial powers imposed their will on the hapless smaller and weaker states of Europe. Whether it is because or in spite of the European Security Conference I do not know, but it looks as if Europe will continue to be divided into 2 armed camps for a long time yet. I believe that is very unfortunate and sad. In our own area, right now the people of Timor are struggling  to  determine their own future, but they are encountering the efforts of an outside power to impose its will upon them. Not only are Indonesian pressures being applied to discourage the option of independence, but also there are disturbing reports that similar pressures are coming from Malaya and Singapore. Australia must resist these notions. 
It is said that Australia is not a party principal in the Timor question. I agree with that proposition. If being a party principal means imposing one's will on the Timorese, there should be no parties principal except East Timor itself. Indonesia should not be acknowledged as a party principal either. It is alarming that, although Indonesian leaders have said that they have no territorial claim on East Timor, they assert a  de facto  claim by suggesting that the only real option for East Timor is integration with Indonesia. That is a view which, to the Fretilin leaders, is tantamount to intimidation. It is an untenable view when, by all accounts, the majority of the politically conscious in East Timor favour independence. The Indonesians allegedly see an independent Timor as a threat to their security. How could a small State be such a threat? Small states invariably accommodate to the fears and aspirations of their great power neighbours. 
What is the actual situation in East Timor? The conservative UDT launched a coup early in August, reportedly encouraged by Indonesia. Fretilin retaliated vigorously, which indicated that it had strong popular support. Within one month the remnants of UDT were forced to withdraw to Indonesian Timor. Fretilin controls East Timor and, according to the reports of all visitors, including some Australian members of Parliament, it is behaving with great restraint and moderation. Fretilin has sought the return of the Portuguese and tried to placate Indonesia. Indonesia's response has been to make cynical allegations that Fretilin is communist or communistpenetrated, that its forces have been committing atrocities and that most of the population favours integration. It is clear that these allegations are blatantly untrue. Indonesian warships are now patrolling off Timor, and several parties of troops from Indonesian Timor, with at least some Indonesian regulars among them, have carried out raids into East Timor. Fretilin wants the Portuguese back. I support the proposal that the Portuguese negotiate with all parties. However, UDT and Apodeti will not talk to the Portuguese. If no spark of interest can be kindled in the Portuguese authorities I believe that there is a strong case for recognition of Fretilin as the Government of East Timor. 
I regret that the official spokesman for the Opposition on these matters, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  has not been very outspoken on this matter recently. I think that by and large the views he has held have been reasonable ones. I was sorry to hear that his views have been superseded by much more frightening views which have been expressed by . the Leader of his Party, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  I hope that the honourable member for Kooyong will not be intimidated by these reactionary forces in his own Party. I hope that he will have the courage of his convictions and express the views that he sincerely feels about the rights of the Timorese people to determine their own future. 
Finally, I would like to respond to a point made by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who preceded me in the debate, about humanitarian assistance provided by the Australian Government for national liberation movements in Africa. As has been pointed out, $150,000 is provided in the Budget for that purpose. Organisations such as the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund and the Red Cross provide humanitarian relief programs for those affected by the struggle for liberation in a number of southern African countries. An examination is currently being made of the most appropriate programs to be supported in this coming financial year. In 1974-75 the Australian contribution funded assistance for mothers and children in Zambia under the care of a number of liberation movements. Funds were used for tents, blankets, domestic supplies, food, agricultural equipment, classroom equipment and school materials, drugs and medical equipment including a mobile unit and the training of medical assistants and nurses. Other major contributors to the project, by the way, are New Zealand, the United Kingdom and a voluntary organisation based in Ireland. I believe that that gives the lie to the remarks made by the honourable member for Lyne. 
I want to discuss under the Department of Health estimates the proposed appropriation of $230,000 for the training of dental therapists. I take this opportunity to say a few words about the school dental service because the great degree of progress that has been made in this scheme since the election of the Labor Government in December 1972 is not generally realised. The annual report of the Director-General of Health sets out at page 240 some of the advances that have been made both in the number of static clinics provided for schools and in the increase in the number of personnel including dental therapists and others employed in the service. It also indicates the increased amount in capital and recurrent expenditure appropriated for this program. I seek leave to have 2 tables incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197510025_79_2.jpg"></graphic>

As far as my own State of South Australia is concerned these tables show an increase in the number of clinics from 28 in 1973 to 4 1 in the present year, and in the total number of personnel from 143 in 1973 to 228 in 1975. This great degree of initiative was shown by the Government. In fact, one of the first acts by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in December 1972 was to arrange with the New Zealand Government to send 25 trainee dental therapists to New Zealand so that they could be trained in the facilities which already exist there to complement those who will be trained in Australia to man the scheme. The scheme was modelled on the New Zealand scheme and it was initiated in my State of South Australia in the late 1960s under the Walsh Labor Government. It was adopted as national policy at the national conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1971 at Launceston. I was very proud to have been associated with the measure to incorporate that as the policy which became the policy of the Government. 
The school dental scheme aims basically at prevention, preventive dental care and educationeducating the children and their parents in proper dental care. It does aim to achieve a comprehensive cover for all primary school children in Australia and eventually all children up to the age of 15 years. The scheme is run mainly by female graduates following a 2-year course at colleges of advanced education in the various States and services are provided free of charge, all the people in the service being salaried. I think this does show very well the advantage of a salaried system, a system in which the State provides the service and employs those people who are needed to run it. The benefit is provided to everybody irrespective of who he is, where he lives, and what his economic circumstances are. It does not leave the distribution of these services to market forces. I think this is very important because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has espoused the new philosophy of the Liberal Party in which he believes that everything should be left to market forces. I believe if this were to apply in this case there would be a good deal of inequity in the distribution and access of school children to proper dental care. I think we would have the same sort of thing that happened in respect of legal services before the Australian Legal Aid Office was set up whereby poor people had insufficient access to proper legal services. I believe the same thing would happen with the school dental service if we left that to market forces. 
It would be completely inadequate if we left the whole thing to a fee-for-service arrangement like we have with the medical scheme that we have unfortunately inherited- this tradition of fee-for-service. I think that if that were to happen the market forces would not be sufficient to ensure a proper distribution because poor people would be priced out of the service. If we just provided a subsidy to private enterprise like we have been forced to do with medical care we would find that the only way that we could make available adequate treatment for poor people would be to provide such a great subsidy that the scheme would be very overpriced. This would result in the enrichment of the privileged people who.provide services such as medical services. 
The school dental scheme really is on the same principle as the education service. The State government provides the service. It employs the people to man the service. It trains the people to provide that service and to work in it. As I said, the proposed expenditure and the previous expenditure on the program provide more static clinics in schools which are manned by the dental therapists and are under the general supervision of dentists. Funds are being provided for training schools. Quite recently I had the privilege of being associated with the South Australian Minister for Health in the opening of a large dental therapy training school at Somerton Park in South Australia in my electorate. Approval has been given for the establishment of yet another centre in Adelaide, so we hope before long to have an output of some 96 graduates a year in South Australia. These centres will also train therapists for the Northern Territory. I do hope that as many people as possible will have a chance to visit dental therapy training schools such as the one at Somerton Park to see this truly wonderful program in action. Dental therapists can do all the basic things required to treat children. They can give preventive care. They can administer local anaesthetics. They can carry out fillings. They do extractions. They X-ray children's teeth and perhaps most importantly they carry out general education programs for the children in the schools, and they ask the parents to come along as well. It is under the general supervision of a dentist. There is approximately one dentist to every 4 school dental clinics, each school dental clinic having about 2 dental therapists. The dentist will prescribe the general form of treatment but it is carried out by the dental therapist. I am sure that the end result of this will be a real improvement in human welfare in the form of better dental health for the next generation of Australians. It is really different in that way from other areas of government expenditure. 
The Government might be able to build more hospitals but it would not necessarily mean that we would have a healthier community. We might spend more on prescription drugs but it would not necessarily mean that we would have a healthier community. We might build more law courts or have bigger police forces but it would not mean that we would have a more law abiding community. We have more teachers but it does not necessarily mean that we have better educated children in Australia. However, it is different with this program. It is not just that we have more dental therapists and it is not just that we have more buildings; the benefit is a tangible one in human welfare. It means that there is better dental health for the next generation of Australians. I think this is shown quite clearly as a result of the scheme as applied in New Zealand. It also provides a redistributive benefit. 
Surveys carried out before the scheme was introduced showed that children in poor areas tended to have much worse teeth than those in better off areas. In this respect the school dental health program provides a quality of children's teeth of uniform excellence. Therefore there is a significantly greater benefit provided to those children in poor areas who have the worst teeth. It is of great benefit to people from low income families. 
As I said, I believe that this scheme could not possibly be run by private enterprise. With a private enterprise fee for service system we would not be able to have the preventive or educative aspects. I am sure that such a scheme would be much more expensive because it would have to subsidise the dentists to see that everybody got enough as rich people could take more than their share of the resources available. The cost to the community therefore is very much less under the scheme that this Government has provided. I would like to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tell us whether his proposal to leave all these sorts of things to market forces applies to the school dental therapy program. If that were the case it would be a very sad day for the state of health of children's teeth in Australia. I believe that this program is socialism with a human face and I commend the Government for its continued support for it. 
I ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry whether he is aware of a recent statement by the  chairman  of Chrysler Australia Ltd concerning the proposal for 4-cylinder engine manufacture in South Australia. Can he inform the House of the present situation with regard to this proposal? 
I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'this House congratulates the Government on its continuing action to restrict inflation and its effects on people with low incomes receiving superannuation or receiving welfare payments and condemns the Opposition for placing in jeopardy the improvement in living standards of all Australians since 2 December 1972 by its action to defer the passage of the Budget.'. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he has noted a claim that the Government has cheated over the consumer price index. Has he also noted a claim that the true increase in the consumer price index was 2.9 per cent of which increased health costs contributed 2.1 per cent? Are these claims correct? 
