I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he can indicate to the House when the microwave system between Western Australia and the eastern States will be operational? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the recent announcement by the Reserve Bank that interest rates will be increased by 0.5%. Considering the severe impact that this rise will have on farmers' financial obligations, will the Minister recommend to the Reserve Bank that the 0.5% increase should not apply to rural producers? 

Order! The Deputy Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 
 I turn to the speech made by His Excellency the Governor-General on 3rd March. Perhaps it would be appropriate if I. were to read the first paragraph of the Speech, lt states: 
You are assembled at this Second Session of the 27lh Parliament to consider and decide on matters affecting the security and growth of the Australian nation, and matters concerning the welfare of the citizens who constitute that nation. 
For a little over 2 hours, honourable members have been listening to a debate on defence which is, of course, the first responsibility of this Parliament. The GovernorGeneral in his Speech dealt with many items relating to defence, and many items relating to the economic and social wellbeing of this nation. I would like to deal with a few of these matters this evening. Australia is going through a period of some expansion. As has been mentioned in the House, this expansion has been going on for some time and has been accelerated in recent times by certain mining and industrial activity, and activity of many other kinds throughout Australia. This expansion has had its effect on our general economy. Perhaps I could say it has had an uneven effect because of the pressures brought to bear on certain sections of the community compared with other sections. 
It is these defence matters, economic matters and social matters which are so important to Australia at this time. His Excellency mentioned in his Speech the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. We have had some debates in the House on the Territory since this session commenced. I want to say that 1 hope that the people of Papua and New Guinea will be allowed to move along in their own way and find their feet in their own good time, with the assistance which Australia is giving them, knowing the responsibility which we have to the world, without too many pressures from the outside world. I believe that the people of Papua and New Guinea can indeed find their feet in their own way and in their own time with the assistance of this country and with the outer world encouraging them but without forcing them in any way. I know they will, in fact, do so. 
I pay a tribute to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  who has one of the most difficult portfolios in this Government. The eyes of the world are upon our country and Papua and New Guinea, watching its development. In my opinion the Minister for External Territories is doing an excellent job in his own quiet way to try to lift Papua and New Guinea to nationhood, with the resources of Australia being used to assist it to achieve that objective. This issue is very important because, as I have said, it is our responsibility as a nation to direct the Territory's future. We have to see that help is given to them so that their future is a sound one and not a half baked one. 1 hope that the people of Australia and the members of this House will leave the people of the Territory in peace and will not force independence on them too quickly, as some of the other countries of the world have been suggesting. 
I want to turn this evening to a number of subjects dealing with the economy of this country, and more particularly with that of agricultural industries which are not enjoying the prosperity which is seen today in many of the big mineral areas and large cities. The economy of this nation seems to have been directed to some extent by the big cities of Australia regardless of what might be happening to the producing areas, the areas which produce the real wealth of this nation. The real wealth of any nation comes from the soil. There is no other place from which to get it. if this country and the world in general neglect the soil they will be heading for trouble sooner than they think. 
The population of the world is growing. At the moment this country and many other countries have a surplus of food. But let it not be forgotten that as people not only in Australia but all around the world continue to move in great numbers from the rural producing areas into the cities the clay of reckoning will come. Not only will food not be available to many millions of people, who are increasing in number every year, but the real techniques of producing the food will disappear. This is the problem. The young people who today are moving away from the vital industries of this country are not being trained as .they should be if wc are to look ahead to the future of our primary industries. 
The population of the world continues to increase, although steps are being taken to control its growth in countries such as India. A rapidly increasing population is one of India's biggest embarrassments, if I may use that word, because it has insufficient food. As the population increases people will need a tremendous amount of food and shelter, perhaps not in 5 or 10 years time but certainly in 20 years time. I repeat that if we do not look to this area of need in this country, and indeed in other countries, we will be in trouble in 20 years time or probably less. 
Some of the points I want to deal with tonight were mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech.  His Excellency  referred, for instance, to the major cost factor in any industry, whether it be primary industry or secondary industry - that is, transport costs. A Bureau of Transport Economics is to be set up, and I compliment the Government on this move. Australia is a nation of about 3 million square miles, and most of the people who live in Sydney, Melbourne and the other cities around the coast are inclined to forget that the distances in this country are tremendous. A week or two ago we saw the opening of the Indian-Pacific railway line which goes right across Australia. For the first time in the 200-year history of Australia we have been able to link Sydney and Perth with a standard gauge line. It has taken 200 years to do this, but we have done it. The distance involved was a big problem. The distance involved in transport is putting a tremendous burden on the people who produce the real wealth of this country. Whether it is transport by rail, road, sea, pipeline or wire, it makes no difference. Any system of transport is very costly to the person who lives in inland Australia. We must tackle this problem and help the States to do something about it if we are to help the people maintain the position that 1 spoke about earlier. 
We have been doing something in the field of transport beyond our shores. Some years ago, when I first came into this House, I mentioned that if Australia wanted to trade successfully overseas it would have to do something about overseas shipping costs. It took a long time to convince the powers that be that we had to change our ways and that conventional ships had to go. After making that speech, I walked out of the House into Kings Hall and one of my friends said to me: 'You spent a lot of money tonight, old chap'. I did, but exactly what I said has come true. We had to throw away the old ship and get a new one. We were the only country in the world with positive evidence that this had to be done. Some years ago on the Melbourne to Fremantle link we introduced the first container concept in the world. This was brought about because of competition from road transport. This was the only area in the world where parallel transport was provided by road and sea. Deficiencies were evident in the old system. We have rectified those deficiencies, but we must go on to rectify the deficiencies that exist in the inland areas. 
One of the biggest problems confronting decentralisation and the people who live in the country is communications. Anybody who lives in a built-up area in the cities can get a telephone connected by paying a connection fee and a telephone rental. But many of the people who live in the country areas and who provide the real wealth of this nation have to pay literally thousands of dollars to have a phone connected before they start paying high costs associated with this means of communication. It is quite unreasonable. Why should a person who lives in a country area be required to find the capital cost of connecting a telephone to his property? A country as affluent as Australia should have a telephone communications system which is within reason readily accessible to the people who live in inland areas. This is one area of the communications system I have referred to which we must in fact do something about. 
As a question I directed to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  would indicate, I am concerned about the recent announcement by the Reserve Bank of Australia that interest rates will be increased by 0.5%. Such an increase would mean that the rural industries alone would have to find at least an extra Si Om to meet something which they have had no opportunity to budget for and which in fact they are not in a position to find. It is not reasonable to expect them to meet such an increase. As I said on a previous occasion, the increase is probably based on the affluent situation which exists in the cities as a result of the mining boom and so forth. But the people who are not enjoying the affluent society which is evident in our cities today are the people who live not only on farms but also in towns in rural areas. They are not enjoying this affluence. Therefore, why should they be asked to pay the proposed increased interest rates? I sincerely hope that the powers that be in the Reserve Bank will do the right thing by the people who live in country areas and ensure that the proposed 0.5% increase does not apply to them at all. 
During the last election campaign a lot of statements were made on soap boxes throughout the country. The point was reached where I became completely disgusted with most of these statements because they were not based on fact. If we are to build our nation we must tell the people the true situation. I appreciate that politics is politics, but let us have a little bit of truth in regard to the things we are trying to do to help the people of Australia. The Government has been helping our primary industries in various ways for some considerable time. It has been assisting in some way or another the wheat, dairying, sugar and wool industries and any other industries one likes to mention. One statement which was made during the election campaign was that the superphosphate bounty, which will amount to $50m a year this year, was of no benefit to the actual producer because it is all absorbed in costs. I am not here to support the actions of the superphosphate manufacturers; all I am trying to do is to inform the House and the people of Australia of the facts of the situation. The honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  referred to the superphosphate bounty in his speech in the House on 5th March 1970, which appears at page 117 of Hansard. He said that the manufacturers receive the assistance and the growers have to meet the increased price but that there is no direct subsidisation in the fertiliser field. 
Of course they do not get a cheque, but they get the benefit of such assistance. 
They do not have to pay it in the first instance. The honourable member says that the growers do not receive any benefits. 
I shall indicate what assistance they get. 1 shall talk about superphosphate and nothing else because the bounty is on superphosphate. 1 have figures in regard to the State of Western Australia. The position is much the same in the other States, although there may be a few cents difference. We use a lot of superphosphate in my own State of Western Australia. There was no bounty on superphosphate in 1962- 63 and the net price to the grower was $20.85 a ton. The Government introduced a bounty of $6 a ton, which brought the price back to $14.85. It remained at much the same price until 1966 when the price went up by $5.50. The price rose because of the necessity to import sulphur and the extra cost of the rock from Nauru. If any man knows the story behind the extra cost of rock from Nauru I am sure he will not argue about doing the right thing by these people. At that point the price went to $19.40 but in August 1968 the price was $20.25. From 13th August onwards it came back to $18.25 as a result of an extra $2 subsidy from this Government. From 13th August 1969 the price was $14.25. When we first introduced the superphosphate bounty the price was $14.85. So it is a little lower now than it was when we started. They are the facts of life and that is what the people have to be told. I can assure you that it becomes very confusing for many folk in the country areas. The Government has done many things in the meat industry to help free enterprise to sell more meat overseas. Thanks to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and his Department we supply to the United States of America almost half of its total meat imports. That is a pretty good deal. 
The wheat industry is one which is in real trouble today. Not long ago when the stabilisation plan was introduced into this 
House the Government gave a guarantee to the Australian wheat growers of $2,000m over a period of 5 years. That is probably the biggest deal that has been made in the primary industries of this country at any time. Of course, the total cheque will be much more than that, we hope. But the industry is still in trouble because of the world situation and that alone. Wheat production has risen very rapidly in the last 10 years. As a matter of fact, it has about doubled. 
There is nothing wrong with doubling production. We have to have this export. In the past we have always been able to sell all our wheat. Now we have a problem, so let us face up to the problem and do something about it. Why did that problem arise and why did production increase so quickly in that period of time? Let us have  a  look at the total situation. Most of the wheat growers in Australia are also wool growers, and many of those in New South Wales who were not previously growing wheat and have grown wool for many years have come into the wheat market because it was stabilised by the agreements put through this House from time to time. They knew that if they grew a bushel of wheat they could get paid for it. So they moved into wheat. Of course the development of new land in many areas of Australia also increased the production of wheat. 
We have a problem but I believe that the major problem was caused by the fact that wool prices went down. Let us look at the wool industry for a moment and see what has happened over the years. Any-, body can trace the history of wool back to the First World War to get the facts from the beginning. As honourable members know, during the two World Wars we had a system of appraisal and selling. The three countries concerned, including Britain, agreed that we should have such a system. After the First World War a couple of million bales of wool were left over. Those people who had no faith in wool would have said: 'What we should do with these  2  million bales of wool is throw them into the sea'. But that was not done, and all the wool was sold within  2  or 3 years. Following that, the price of wool went down to about 8d a lb. If honourable members look at copies of Hansard for 1921 or 1922 - do not hold me to a year - they will see that the Government brought down a measure whereby wool could not be exported from this country unless it averaged 8d a lb. That was a very flimsy arrangement but it put some confidence into the business, and within a few years we had stability and reasonable prices in the wool industry. This did not continue. We know what happened in 1930. I do not have to say anything about that. At the time of the next World War a new plan came in, as happens when we have wars. The post-war joint organisation scheme was introduced in order to sell some 10 million bales of wool. At that time in 1945-46, nobody was saying that we should throw 10 million bales of wool into the sea. Because of previous experience we knew what would happen. 
But there were people saying that it would take 8 to 10 years to get rid of the wool, and everybody was a little frightened of what would happen if ten million bales of surplus wool were released onto the Australian market. But what happened? The wool was fed onto the market in an organised fashion. The price of wool never went higher than it did between 1945 and 1950, although ten million bales of surplus wool were fed onto the market. But what has happened since this method of selling wool was abandoned? In 1951 the growers were offered backing from this Government to supplement their own funds and to continue the organised marketing. We had the funds, we had the stores and we had the organisation, but the growers said that they did not want it, and we have been in trouble ever since. Since that time proposals have been submitted to the growers, but the growers have rejected them. Which growers rejected the proposals? In the main it was the growers in New South Wales, which is the largest wool growing State in the Commonwealth. 
What is the situation today? The wool industry is in real trouble. It is, and has been, our best industry in Australia. I think it is a complete tragedy that the wool industry has been split. This Government has said that it stands prepared to assist the industry. That is fair enough to me. Let us get the people engaged in the wool industry together. If they really want something done, surely history shows that something can be done. Of course, there will be many people who will say: That was in the past. We cannot do that now. We could do it after the First World War, we could do it after the Second World War, but we could not do it today.' 
All the research and promotion that has been carried out has had no effect on the actual return to the grower. So the wool industry has to do what any other commercial industry would do - whether it is the iron ore industry, the oil industry, the wood chip industry, or any other industry producing raw materials that are sold on the world market or even on the home market, it has to organise itself in a suitable fashion. Those engaged in the wool industry should get together and do something in this regard. I say  10  the Government that if it wants to spend money to help the wool industry, it should spend the money as we have spent it previously. Money has always been well spent in the wool industry. Britain made a lot of money out of the last scheme to dispose of surplus wool, because the scheme was well organised. 
There is a market in the world for Australian ' wool. Australian wool is a good fibre. No other fibre comes up to it. The wool industry can look after itself, if it is given a chance. It does not have a chance at the present time because all the wool growers in Australia are putting wool onto the floor and a handful of buyers are sorting it out for themselves. This is not giving the industry a chance. All the evidence that one can gather certainly points to the fact that those engaged in the wool industry need to get themselves together and do something in this matter. 
There is one other point 1 should like to make before my time expires. It refers to the research which is being carried out in primary industries in Australia. As honourable members know, there are many good research officers in Australia carrying out research work, but in my opinion the work is not being co-ordinated as it should be. The various departments within the States, the universities and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation are carrying out research work. But in practice we find that much of the work that should be done is in fact not being done. I will not try to spell out tonight what needs to be done because I do not have the time and I do not wish to do so, but I believe it is time that we co-ordinated the forces that are carrying out research. A large amount of money is being spent on research in Australia today, and we want a full inquiry to see what is happening and where the money is being spent to make sure - and I am a long way from being sure - that a lot of this work is not being duplicated. With the limited amount of money that we have available to spend on research, every cent needs to be spent in the right way. Research work should not be duplicated by the various organisations which are responsible for it. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question. I understand that the United Kingdom Government has recently made an annual review of its policy in respect of domestic agricultural support prices. Has the Minister particulars of these new decisions? What significance does he attach to them in relation to Australia's trading opportunities in the United Kingdom for its agricultural products? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is direced to the Minister for Primary Industry. Since the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Wool Industry Conference have unanimously recommended the establishment of a single wool marketing authority, will the Minister now confer with the industry leaders? Can the Minister inform the House of the steps the Government will take to implement the decision? Finally, can the Minister give any indication as to when the proposed wool marketing authority could be in operation? 
This Bill, which amends the National Health Act  1953-69,  is a very important measure. I believe that  Sir Earle  Page introduced the original measure in  1953.  In that comparatively short period of time,  17  years, there have been tremendous changes and advances in the profession. This is apparent not only in the case of doctors but also in the facilities at their disposal and at the disposal of nurses and hospitals generally. If we cast our minds back over that period I think all honourable members will agree that Australia has held its own in the world in relation to medical care. There is no doubt that hospitals have improved and new hospitals have been erected in many parts of Australia. This Bill sets out to help the Australian people obtain the benefits that are available today from the new techniques developed by the profession not only in Australia but all over the world. 
Perhaps we have not come as far as we would like in some spheres when we remember that people still suffer from diseases and complaints for which science has not found cures. There are a number of such areas but, still, we have come a long way. I hope that during the next few years money will be made available for research in many of these areas in order to overcome some of the problems that still have to be faced by the community. 
This Bill, as I see it, makes available to the people of Australia the most detailed specialist treatment for a cost of not more than $5 on each occasion. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has left the chamber but I want to refer to his speech, because he mentioned low income earners. This Bill caters for these people. In view of what the honourable member for Bendigo had to say I think I should read a portion of the second reading speech made by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  when he introduced this Bill. It is quite clear to me what the Minister means. He said: 
In future, families with incomes of up to $42.50 per week will be entitled to full medical benefits and also to hospital benefits equal to the cost of public ward treatment without any payment of contributions. 
That is fairly clear to me. It means that people on low incomes will be catered for. This is an important aspect of the Bill because there are many people in this category who simply cannot afford to take advantage of the medical care about which I have spoken. One important point involved in medical care is the need to take away the concern and worry that people endure about getting sick. Mothers worry that they will not be able to obtain the medical care required because of the cost factor. Now the low income earner will be able to obtain this care without worry. 
To be successful any health scheme must have the full co-operation of the medical profession. In fact it must have the cooperation of all the people concerned - the people generally, the medical profession and the government of the day which introduces particular measures. These 3 groups must work hand in hand. I do not believe we can have a satisfactory medical scheme unless it is accepted by the members of the profession, because they are the people who have to carry out the important function of looking after patients. I understand that this Bill has been prepared by the Government in conjunction with the medical profession. The Government has been working with the Australian Medical Association in preparing this measure However since that time some disquiet has arisen in a certain area of the medical profession, mainly the general practitioners, and it will be necessary for those concerned about this aspect to co-operate, get together and sort out any problem that is found, either now or in the future. 
Another important factor in the field of medicine is the preservation of the freedom of the individual. 1 refer not only to the freedom of those in the medical profession but to the freedom of the people of Australia. There must be complete understanding. There must be complete freedom for people to go to the doctor of their choice and freedom for the doctor to perform his function as he sees fit and not as any government or anybody else may see fit. This is important from a general practitioner's point of view. That is why I say that if there is any doubt about this at all amongst the general practitioners in Australia we must try to resolve the differences- Back in 19S3 the Bill would have dealt mainly with general practitioners but, because of the advance in medicine, we have found there has been a great increase in the number of specialists practising in this country. As I see it, this is only natural. This trend will probably go on and more specialists will in fact be practising in this country because of the nature of things as we find them today because of developments in science and because of the specialised nature of many procedures. But the general practitioner is a part of the Australian way of life. The mother and the family look to the general practitioner and expect him to look after the welfare of the family. I believe that we should not do anything that would jeopardise in any way the operations now carried out in Australia by general practitioners. Specialists have their field of activity and we know what it is; but there is a very broad and important field in Australia for general practitioners. 
There is an area to which I would make special reference tonight, lt relates to the services of doctors throughout country areas. We know the situation in Australia is difficult compared to the situation in some other countries, and perhaps we could take our nearest neighbour, New Zealand, on one side and Britain on the other. New Zealand has some  21  million people but in terms of area it is, like Britain, a very small country. But in Australia which has an area of about 3 million square miles, there are many places where giving medical services to the people is a problem. We have unique services such as the Flying Doctor Service which does a tremendous job in shortening some of these distances. People of the outback rely very heavily on the Flying Doctor Service and it is a magnificent service. But outside the cities, the more densely populated centres and the areas covered by the Flying Doctor Service there are vast areas where some difficulties have been experienced over the years in obtaining the services of doctors. Many of these areas are sparsely populated, the distances that have to be travelled by doctors are not easy and there are many other problems. I think it is a tragedy that people suffer these disabilities in certain areas. This is another reason why general practitioners are concerned about certain aspects of this Bill and what may happen if people seek more and more specialist treatment. If there is any indication whatsoever of this happening the Government should take measures to rectify the position immediately because the shortage of doctors in country areas is very real and very worrying. 1 believe the medical profession has a responsibility to endeavour to rectify some of these situations. The doctors in the country should not do as many other people do and migrate to the more densely populated areas, the cities of Australia. There is a responsibility not only on the Government but also on the doctors and the profession to look after people in country areas. I believe doctors recognise their responsibility here but there are still problems and I would emphasise to the Minister that he should watch very closely the results flowing from the new measures we are now taking. If there is any evidence whatsoever that the fears of the doctors are real, any evidence whatsoever that there could be a migration of doctors away from country areas or a further migration of general practitioners to the specialist section, we should take measures to rectify the situation. The people in the vast country areas of which I have been speaking face special problems and they need special consideration and special conditions to meet their circumstances. Surely we do this in many other situations. A doctor who has to service a district in which he may be the only doctor is called out at any hour of the day or night and he answers the call quite willingly. He travels over long distances and his position in many cases is quite different from that of a doctor working in the metropolitan area where frequently doctors work in groups and help each other. They have their time off. Specialists are in a different category altogether. 
But in the country areas and in small towns which have a doctor he is very often there at great expense to the local authority which supplies a house, a surgery and so on. He has a particular job to do and is in a quite different position. I believe the medical profession should be looking at this problem and seeing what might be done to encourage doctors to move into these areas and give the services required. I have pleasure in supporting the general principles of this Bill. I am concerned to some extent about the country situation, and 1 make no secret of it. I was concerned about it long before this Bill was brought into the House and I do believe that we should take notice of the points I have raised. The fullest co-operation should exist between the medical profession and the government and efforts should be made to iron out the problems which may appear from time to time. Obviously a measure of this magnitude, which is quite different from the previous National Health Act, will have some problems. Nobody would expect it not to have problems. This is only to be expected, but as those problems arise, if in fact they do arise, we should reconsider the matter. 
After all, the health of the nation is really of prime importance. If one does not have good health, life is not much good because one cannot do anything. Not only does the health of a nation reflect within the family unit and the individual; it reflects also right throughout the economy of the nation. It reflects in every form of industry. The healthy nation gets things done; the healthy nation has a good record of attendance at industry. Therefore Bills on health are extremely important to any nation. As I have said, science has moved ahead in great strides over the last 20 years and no doubt we will again see great strides taken in the next 20 years. It is during this period that the Government must make adjustments, as we move along, to suit the conditions and advances in the medical world. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he recently had discussions with major wheat exporting countries. If so, to what extent are those countries holding stockpiles above normal levels? How many countries have imposed production restrictions and to what extent has production been reduced in such countries? How does the Minister see Australia's position at this stage when related to world market prospects? 
The matter of public importance submitted to the House by the Opposition is: 
The Government's refusal to grant Commonwealth employees four weeks annual leave, pay rates comparable with those in private industry and outright equal pay. 
Labor supporters should explain what is meant by 'outright equal pay'. Equal pay is being dealt with in this debate, but what is meant by the phrase 'outright equal pay'? This has not been explained by any of the Opposition members who have already spoken in this debate. The term 'outright equal pay' is not normally used whereas the term 'equal pay' is common. Members of the Australian Labor Party should explain precisely what is meant by this unusual term and they will have an opportunity to do so when I resume my seat. Earlier, when speaking to this motion the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  outlined the machinery available to the people of Australia, the Australian employee and the Australian employer. For the fixing of wages and other conditions in the Public Service we have available the Public Service Board, the Arbitrator and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I am concerned to hear on so many occasions that the final machinery which is available in this country - the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission - is being downgraded. This is a part of the Australian way of life. It is a part of our life which I think the majority of Australians respect. It is all very well for some of the bigger unions in this country to endeavour to downgrade the arbitration system. But let us have a look at the work force across the board - that is, across1 Australia. Let us be realistic. It is all right for the large unions to bargain in their own right with employers, but what about the smaller unions which represent many workers but which have not the power to do this? What would happen to those unions if there is to be a continual voicing of opinions against our arbitration system and a non-acceptance of decisions made under that system? If that is to continue then I fear the day for the smaller unions in Australia. 
I, like many other Australians, believe that the arbitration system has served the nation very well and until we can find a better system let us go on with the system that we have. I now want to deal with the issue of equal pay. The machinery which has applied on this occasion consists of the Public Service Board, the Public Service Arbitrator and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commonwealth Government has endorsed and is carrying out the principles laid down by the Commission on this issue. The decision made was by an independent authority, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which is available to both employee and employer to put forward their arguments. The honourable member for Hindmarsh referred to the 9 points stated by the Commission and I think he suggested that the Commonwealth put the 9 points. This could be right. But surely in this field the honourable member realises that in a forum of this nature the employee and the employer have every right to put the respective cases to the Commission, and that when the Commission makes its decision we should abide by it because this is the machinery set up in this country to deal with such matters. The Commission has made its recommendations. The Commonwealth has taken those recommendations and is in fact applying them. The principles have now been set down and as far as the Public Service is concerned if memory serves me correctly, 90% of the male wage is in fact being paid to females now; by 1971 it will be 95% and by 1972 it will be 100%. 
I appreciate that the work force in Australia today is doing a tremendous job. I appreciate also the fact that in Australia women are playing a big part in the work force. It is a most important part and it is increasing. Of course, this is so in many parts of the world and I believe that this will continue. If there is to be any alteration to the wage scale or if a decision has to be made in relation to these matters it is very important, particularly in some of those areas mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, that women should have the protection of the arbitration system. They should have this independent machinery to go to because in many areas in which women are being employed their unions do not have the strength of the very large unions. They do not have the strength, to fight a case in the way the large unions can fight. This is one reason why the Labor Party should urge unions to press for equal pay under the conciliation and arbitration system. It would be a sorry day for Australia if this system were no longer available to us. I am deeply concerned at actions calculated to undermine the system. 
I have already said that in my view women constitute an important section of the work force. I firmly believe that well trained women in some professions should be better paid than they are today. The nursing profession is one that has been mentioned in the course of this debate. Sisters and nurses are on their feet for long hours of the day and night. They do not work regular hours. There is merit in an argument that these people should be better paid. But I stress that they have at their disposal the arbitration machinery. They are entitled to go before an independent arbitrator and argue their case. They should avail themselves of the existing machinery. Until a better system is devised - I do not know of one - we should support to the hilt our existing arbitration system. 
The Opposition should tell us clearly what it means by its expression 'outright equal pay'. If it has in mind those categories of female employees who perform work that is not normally performed by males, is this not a fitting area to be brought under the scrutiny of the arbitration system? I support to the hilt the arbitration system because in my view it is the right and just system. 
What does the honourable member for Eden-Monaro intend to move? 
That the Minister for the Navy be not further beard. 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
Those in favour say aye; those against say no. I think the noes have it. 
Question put: 
That the Minister for the Navy be not further heard. 

The Leader of the Opposition may only give the reasons for moving the motion. 
When considering the importance of a debate of this nature, I find it rather remarkable that I am the third honourable member on the Government side to speak when there has hot been a single  speaker  from the Opposition side. 1 take it that by its actions in relation to this debate, which is extremely important in view of the position in which we find ourselves in the world today, tho Opposition is not interested in a naval base in Western Australia. As is well known by the members of the House and the people of Australia, the Australian Labor Party has the opportunity of being represented in debate by every second  speaker.  I am the third  speaker  on this matter and still the Opposition has not taken the opportunity to speak. I draw my own conclusions from that situation. 
As we turn into the 1970s, in my book, we will find ourselves in a most unfortunate situation in the world. I would have thought from the experience of the world that at this stage of its history people throughout the world would be prepared to stay at home in their own territories and develop their own countries and cease to endeavour to capture territory belonging to other people. But what do we find? At this stage both in the Far Bast and in the Middle East we find a very dangerous situation indeed. This debate today is very relevant to the very unfortunate situation in which we find ourselves. Therefore the development of a naval base on the Indian Ocean at Cockburn Sound is of major importance not only to this country, not only to Western Australia and the Indian Ocean but to the free world generally. I believe that this is recognised not only by the people of Western Australia but also by the people of Australia, and I would hope and believe that it is also recognised by friendly powers overseas. 
This important base which we hope will be developed in the near future will be situated in a very good harbour indeed. Cockburn Sound is a tremendous place from the point of view of a waterway. I claim to know something of the activities within this area. The Garden Island site is a natural port. It is well protected. There is deep water running up to Garden Island itself. With the development of the causeway between the mainland and Garden Island, it certainly will have access then to the mainland, and that is the first stage of this development. No doubt the naval authorities will be working in co-operation with the authority of the port of Fremantle, because they have already drawn up extensive plans looking well into the future in developing a naval base in that area. 1 think that the authorities responsible for the port of Fremantle are looking into the future and endeavouring to make plans now so that there will not be a disruption at some future time due to lack of access to this very important base and the harbour facilities which will be required in the future in the State of Western Australia. 
With the rapid development that is taking place in that area, it is obvious that this natural harbour at Garden Island has the potential for a major shipping port in the years to come. The Western Australian authorities have endeavoured to lay down plans and advise the Government of that State on future planning as they see it at this point. I would hope, as I said and as I repeat, that the Commonwealth will work in full co-operation with the State authorities. One may ask whose responsibility it is to establish the base. I say that it is Australia's responsibility in the first place to make available suitable bases. I have no doubt that our allies would come to our assistance if necessary and would use the facilities supplied by Australia. 
This base is of major importance to this area. Perhaps the easiest way to illustrate the number of ships that would come into this area is to look at the trading activities in this area. The port of Fremantle has for a number of years been the largest bunkering port in the southern hemisphere. With the closing of the Suez Canal the situation will perhaps change to some extent because South Africa will be receiving a tremendous amount of shipping tonnage at its various ports. Large tonnages would now be bunkering at South Africa and, because of the distance between the 2 areas, also in Western Australia. So here in the Indian Ocean we have the 2 largest bunkering centres in the southern hemisphere. There is tremendous activity in Western Australia at the moment, as we all know, but it is being increased for various reasons best known to many other people as well as to ourselves. So it is of major importance that some development take place at Cockburn Sound. 
As is so often mentioned, Great Britain intends to withdraw from east of Suez, It will return its troops to the British mainland as we all know. But 1 have no doubt whatsoever - and 1 say I have no doubt because of discussions which 1 had back in 1968 at Westminster with leaders of the British Government and Opposition - that Britain has no intention of turning her back on this area of the world when this area of the world, including Australia and New Zealand is in trouble. I would think it would be reasonable to assume that under these circumstances, with Britain's experience in the naval world, she could greatly assist this country and New Zealand if in fact her assistance were needed. This is where I return to the responsibility of this country to build and maintain necessary bases if we expect - and in fact we would expect - the British and others to be with us in any time of crisis. 1 have no doubt whatsoever, regardless of what might be said in relation to the withdrawal of Britain from east of Suez, that Britain will be here in strength if required, but we cannot expect Britain to be here in the Indian Ocean or anywhere else if we are unable to supply her with the necessary bases and resources for that support. 
Cockburn Sound is a natural harbour. It is a large harbour and is well protected. It has available to it the necessary land area and other resources which will be developed and which are being developed very rapidly. For example, there are steel mills around this area and in other parts of the Stale of Western Australia. There is no other part of the world today that has greater natural resources than does the State of Western Australia. They are tremendous and we are only just starting to find out how much we have in this country, lt would be a sorry day for Australia in future years if our balance of payments did not have the advantage of the wealth of the western seaboard of this country. This is the area in which the great mineral, agricultural and industrial wealth is to be developed in this country, because in that area we have everything. The natural resources are there and development is taking place very rapidly. To go with that development I believe that for the protection of the people of this country there should be a naval base and other facilities in that area. 1 have every confidence that the Government will look at this matter in the way it should be looked at and will go ahead at the earliest opportunity with the development of this naval base at Cockburn Sound. I have every confidence that the base is being placed in the right area, lt is being placed in an area that has a natural harbour that affords good protection and in an area which has plenty of room. I have every confidence that our allies will come to our assistance if necessary and will stand by us if necessary. I repeat that it is the responsibility of this country to supply the bases necessary for the use of those resources which no doubt will be available from other parts of the world. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will recall answering in the House recently a question which related to the difficulties associated with the export of mutton from Australia to the United Stales of America. Can the Minister clarify the exact position? Are all States and all meat works throughout Australia affected? If not, can the Minister tell us exactly which meat works and which States are affected? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to a Press statement indicating that the 22 members of the International Wool Textile Organisation have been pressing the Australian Wool Board  Chairman, Sir William  Gunn, not to interfere with the so-called free auction system of marketing the Australian wool clip. Is it not a fact that wool growers throughout Australia have voted in their thousands for a change to a single wool selling authority? Because of the serious situation that now exists in the wool industry due to the extremely low prices operating under the present system, will the Minister ensure that the wool growers' request is not overridden by external pressures but will in fact be implemented without delay? 

The Bill before the House is to amend the Wool Industry Act. It does not matter whether it is 5 minutes past 2 in the morning or 5 minutes past 2 in the afternoon, what is important is the position of the wool industry today. This is the only opportunity that we will have of debating this important Bill before the House goes into recess. That is the important point. In Australia today there are 100,000 wool growers who have almost come to the end of their tether, and that is what is so important about this debate. I intend to speak in this debate for at least a few minutes. Not only should we in this Parliament be concerned with this legislation, not only are the wool growers concerned as they have indicated in their thousands throughout Australia but every person in Australia should indeed be concerned. As a matter of fact, all Australians who have had advantages-- 
The Bill before the House is to amend the Wool Industry Act. 
The wool belongs lo the industry. The Government is assisting and has been assisting this industry. I do not intend lo be sidetracked by anybody. I have never been sidetracked by anybody who may come in on the side. I say to the wool growers, as I have said in this House before, that I sincerely hope they are not sidetracked. On 2 occasions the Government has offered almost unlimited finance to back the industry, but it was the industry vote - the result of outside pressures - which refused that assistance. This is occurring again. It is not the hour which is important, it is the industry which is important. Perhaps honourable members have not caught up with what is happening at the moment. At the Sydney wool sales this week - on 8th June - a total catalogue of 1 1,000 bales averaged 27c a lb and $88 a bale. Al the previous sales in Sydney a similar catalogue averaged 27c a lb and $86 a bale. That is the position up to date in this industry. It is an impossible position. Therefore this is the most important debate in this country. The hour is not important. 
What are we to do about the position? I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said tonight that nothing new would bs said in this debate. That information is something new which has not been said before. What can we do? The industry itself is looking at' this situation. We hope and expect it to come to this Government and to the State governments because the State governments are involved more than is this Government. Any legislation which this Government may pass to bring in a single statutory wool selling authority would not be worth anything unless complementary legislation was passed by the States. To honourable members on the other side of the House who talk about these things I say: 'Do not lose sight of the fact that we have a Constitution in the Commonwealth. We have 6 State constitutions in relation to marketing. This is the province of the States, not of the Commonwealth'. Let us not forget the Constitution. This Government cannot do what it wants to do. Anything it does has to be in line with the Commonwealth Constitution. The States have full power. I say to the industry: 'Do not look only to the Commonwealth; look to the States because they have to pass legislation which is complementary to any legislation which the Commonwealth may pass about marketing'. 
When wool has reached this low price in the economic environment we find in the world today I have no hesitation in saying that it cannot be justified. Very serious consideration should be given to not allowing wool to move out of this country at that price. Wool has a place in the world. It is, a wonderful fibre which can demand a price in the world if it is given a chance. It has not been given a chance mainly because of the pressures from outside and from the wool growers themselves. One hundred thousand wool growers have great difficulty in coming to agreement. If one were to put 6 blokes in a room they would have great difficulty in coming to agreement. But 100,000 wool growers scattered all over Australia are subject to organised pressure from outside, from the big cities like Mel-' bourne and Sydney and even from overseas. They are subject also to pressure from newspapers. Of course they become confused. I will not be confused by anybody. I have never been confused. 
Australia's wool clip is worth good money. Nobody can bring forward evidence to show that it is not. Not only members of this Parliament but also the Australian people as a whole are concerned about the economics of this industry today because of its importance. The 11,000 bales of wool which averaged 27c a lb at the Sydney sales this week is a fair kind of parcel. If honourable members are not concerned about the wool industry regardless of the hour, I am. We cannot let the present situation in the wool industry continue. It is an impossible situation. It cannot be justified. All the evidence that anybody likes to produce of what has happened over the past 40 years will substantiate what I have said tonight. Nobody can deny that. If honourable members opposite want to debate the matter for several hours at some other time, I am willing to do so. 
This Bill also gives power to the Australian Wool Board to raise moneys for expenditure on wool stores. This is part of what we hope will be an improvement in wool marketing. The Bill gives power to the Board to borrow money for the financing of the construction and equipping of certain complexes referred to in the Bill. Of course, over the years very little has been done in this sense in relation to marketing, and it will take some time to organise this side of it. But this should not prevent any moves that may be made to do something about marketing. It has been proved over th : years that something can be done. At present the wool industry has 280 stores which it has had since the last world war. 
The Bill gives power to the industry to borrow through the Australian Wool Board money to renovate these buildings if necessary. These buildings have been a tremendous asset to Australia. They have been put in many places. In many cases the sheds cover an area of 1 acre. They were put up as temporary sheds during the Second World War, some are on freehold property and some on leasehold property, and they have brought in considerable revenue since that time. They will play an important part in future marketing. Many years ago there was a fight to retain these stores. What went on at that time is never spoken of today. There were a lot more stores, but 280 were retained because we hoped that wool marketing as we knew it after the last world war would be continued. These stores were retained so they would be available for holding stocks of wool. In fact they belong to the wool industry. I am interested to see that under this Bill these stores are to be renovated and maintained. I have no doubt that in peace or in war, if we are unfortunate enough to be involved in war, these wool stores throughout Australia will be of tremendous benefit. 
I make no apology for speaking on this Bill at this hour. The hour does not worry me very much. What is worrying me is the wool industry. Australians, and wool growers in particular, cannot sit around and wait for something to happen, because something will not happen unless we make it happen. There is no evidence in this world that wool is not worth a reasonable price today on world markets. This is not the 1930s, when everything was Hat. The way in which wool is marketed today is the only reason for its low price. There is no evidence to dispute this. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt) [2.19 a.m.- I desire to enter this debate tonight because the Government has seen fit to keep us here until this ungodly hour of the day, which I suppose is being referred to as Thursday. I have been forced to my feet because of a couple of speeches that have been made by members of the Government. What they purport to govern, I do not know. In whose interests they claim to be acting seems to be .somewhat obscure. We have before the House tonight a Bill which makes provision for the expenditure of a considerable sum of money in the interest, we are told, of the wool grower. Nobody objects to money being used in the industry to promote and protect the interests of the wool growers. But wool growers should be placed in brackets and some attention should bc paid to the interests of the national economy. Nobody on this side of the House wants to see the wool industry run down because everybody on this side of the House recognises the value of the wool industry lo the national economy generally. 
In my short rime in this chamber I have become sick and tired of hearing honourable members opposite, particularly Country Party members, continually casting asides at people who live in the cities and suburbs, as if those people were a race apart and foreign to the Commonwealth. 
I remind honourable members opposite that the people who bleed the wool growers - the brokers, whether they be Bagot's Executor and Trustee Co. Ltd or Dalgetys and New Zealand Loan Ltd - are reaping huge profits. These should be measured in terms of what the return to the growers ought to be. A percentage is deducted from the take-home pay of the wool growers, if I may use that parlance. So much for the rubbish one hears about this matter. Continually tonight honourable members opposite have interjected - they have almost insulted me tonight with their cross Gre from that side of the House - quietly but not audibly to the occupant of the Chair asking what I know about wool. I think the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  kept muttering something about King William Street. Do not tell me that the banks do not touch the wool growers from time to lime and thai the great financial institutions do not get on their backs from rime to time as a result of the interest rates they charge. Honourable members opposite do not do their best for the people whom they purport lo represent, hut the electors of Victoria most certainly did not give them much support at the recent election. I think they told members of the Country Party where they could go because of their rural policies. 
I now deal with an aspect of wool about which I know more than any honourable member opposite, including the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who indulged in a great search of the waterfront some years ago in regard to what ought to be done in the transport industry in particular and in industries of the Commonwealth in general.  1  commend him for the fact thai his activity in that narrow field has brought him to the front bench of the Government. The point I make is this: The grower is entitled to a bigger return than he is getting today. He is entitled to a bigger return than the people who purport to represent him have been able to achieve on his behalf. I have not heard one honourable member opposite say thai the grower ought to be entitled to many more dollars per bale. The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  referred to the small amount that growers were getting per hale. This is so despite containerisation, unitisation and mechanisation. Honourable mem- bers opposite have gone out into the industry, met the people whom they say they represent and told them their just rights. Honourable members opposite have been a tremendous failure. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the publication 'History of J.G.' written by  Sir Edwin  McCarthy, financed by the Australian Wool Realisation Commission, and published in 1967. I ask: How many of the available 2,000 copies have been disposed of by the Australian Wool Board and how many were distributed during the last 12 months? Will the Minister ensure that the remaining copies now held by the Board are released for distribution without delay? 
Perhaps the situation was a little different when the original Parliament House was sited at Canberra, but if it were being sited today I would suggest that it would be more appropriately sited at Alice Springs, 
The electors of Canning elected me to represent them in this place. When the House is sitting I propose to be here as often as possible. It is much easier for me to be here for 2 weeks straight, as proposed, than it is in the present circumstances especially if we are sitting 4 days a week anyway which is the programme at the moment and which I understand will be the programme for the next 6 weeks of sitting. We shall be sitting on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday and the same days next week. If I return to my home State at the weekend I arrive in Perth on Friday sometime after midnight according to Eastern Standard Time on which I started the day. 1 return to Canberra again on the Monday. This, in my book, is quite crazy although honourable members often have to do it. It is far too many miles even with jet travel. 
I support the recommendations of the Committee for a sitting of 2 weeks straight on the terms and conditions contained in the report, with 1 week off, in preference to what we are doing at the moment, sitting 4 days a week 3 weeks running and having a week off. 
Nobody would deny the importance of home building in Australia. Australia has always been looked upon as a community of people who like to have their small plot of land - a quarter of an acre or whatever it may be - and on it have their own homes and so their independence. We see the development of Australia moving ahead. Nobody would deny either that the standard of homes being built across the continent today is very good. The standard has been improving for some time. Firstly, there is the matter of responsibility. This comes up quite often not only in this Parliament but also wherever politics and development are being discussed. Let me remind the House that within this Commonwealth of ours we have 3 levels of government - local, State and Commonwealth - and we have our own constitutions relating to those areas of government. As I see it, far too often some people are apt to forget about such things as constitutional responsibility. This motion seeks to set up another committee and if we do not look out we will have far too many chiefs and far too few Indians in this country. That is the way it will go. If we leave the areas of responsibility where they belong today and stop trying to cut across each other's area of responsibility we will get on quite a lot better. 
We have our responsibility as a Commonwealth which includes certain financial responsibilities. Under their constitutions the States have their responsibilities in relation to housing and within this area local government authorities certainly have their own area of responsibility. They are much nearer to the scene of activity of 
Government and I believe that the Minister in negotiating with the State Ministers concerned and in arriving at solutions in relation to the problems of home building is in fact doing the right thing. Something has been said in relation to finance for home building in Australia. We know that in home building than is this Commonwealth  recent  times we have had  an  increase in interest rates. This is a traditional move not only in this country but in the economies of other countries. Economists in other countries do precisely the same thing when they have inflationary pressures bearing down on their economies. This is important to home building. The pressure on home building in the Commonwealth during recent years has created an inflationary pressure in this area. The pressure has been tremendous and there simply have not been enough bricks or whatever it takes to build a home or enough chaps to put them together. This inflationary pressure was building up and so we had to do one of 2 things: We had to allow that to continue and the inflationary pressure to move on with the cost of homes moving up as it was in fact moving up or we had to do something about it. 
The Government's decision - or the Reserve Bank's decision as I understand the monetary system of this country - to increase interest rates was made in order to dampen the economy and therefore dampen the cost of home building. If we did it the other way within a few years home builders would be paying far more for their homes than will result from the extra interest rate which has been applied. Nobody likes to see increases in interest rates. Nobody likes to see additional costs but in a country developing as rapidly as this one this inflationary pressure is dangerous not only to the housing industry but also to all the other sections of the community. If it were not dampened down the results would be far greater costs not only to the housing industry and those people who, following our tradition, are buying homes but to all other sections of the community as well. Therefore, if this matter of finance and interest rates is raised it is necessary to take a choice of one of the two matters which I have mentioned. In this motion it seems that the Opposition's only concern is with urban homes, urban environment and urban development, but we want to see equal opportunity for the people not only in urban areas but also outside urban areas. We have heard much talk about pollution and that seems to be a popular topic today. If we do not do as has been done in Canberra we will be building pollution into the city areas. We must get out of some of the big cities, cut off development at the point we have reached, and begin building additional cities. This can be done. It must be borne in mind that we can create pollution by establishing a certain environment, but it must be remembered also that we can move out into the great areas of this country and build cities elsewhere if we want to avoid this situation. We have heard a reference by the Opposition to equal opportunities, but there are not equal opportunities. I think it was the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who mentioned something about droughts and other problems which affected certain areas of the rural sector. I remind the honourable gentleman that in the main the rural sector does not have the same opportunity in relation to housing as does the urban area or the provincial city areas. If the honourable member were on a farm he would find that he could not obtain  a  long term loan of any dimension whatsoever at this stage. 
Loans for war service homes have been made available to farmers only in the last few years. I am well aware that they were not available until a few years ago. So the financial terms and conditions available to people in the cities for building homes are not available to persons living on farms. We hope that this situation will be corrected in the not too distant future. When we consider the city areas and the advantages there compared with country areas we must look at both sides of the ledger to understand the situation fully. 
I should like to mention one other point in relation to homes to illustrate what I have been saying about there not being equal opportunity for people. I am sure that the honourable member for Reid would be the first to admit that there should be equal opportunity. To illustrate my point perhaps I can refer to the homes savings grant. Under this scheme there could be 2 barnes valued at precisely the same amount, one being in the country and one in the city. 
But because the person in the country has to install his own water supply he immediately adds to the capital cost of that block of land when his home is built. If he installs a tank or sinks a well to obtain a water supply the cost is included in the capital cost of the home. I trust that this situation will be rectified in future. 1 have just recently discovered that this situation exists and when I discover something I endeavour to do something about it. Let us consider what happens in the city. 1 am not saying it should not happen, but in Sydney, Melbourne or somewhere else when a water supply is available from a reservoir all that is needed to supply water to the home is about 30 or 40 feet of half inch pipe coupled to the main. But there is no main in country areas. Perhaps in some towns there may be a water supply, but no main is available to the farm and so the farmer has to provide his own water scheme, the cost of which is included in the estimated capital cost or value - however it is termed- of the total home and so it affects his entitlement to a grant. To apply the same cost component to the city dweller it is necessary to take a percentage of the cost of the Sydney or Melbourne water supply system and apply that to his home. Inconsistencies of this kind can be sorted out by honourable members. I do not think we need a special committee to sort out problems of this kind. We have enough chiefs - good ones in the States, the Commonwealth and local authorities - to sort out the situation in relation to housing and let the Commonwealth do its job in relation to these matters. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister received the annual report of the Tariff Board? If so, when will it be tabled in the House? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Commonwealth has rejected an application by the Western Australian Government for drought assistance? If so, will he indicate the reasons for refusing the request of the Western Australian Government, in view of the large amounts which have been made available jj) recent years to other areas pf Australia which have been so affected? What criteria are adopted by the Government in reaching decisions on the applications of State governments for drought assistance? Is the Prime Minister aware that areas within the State of Western Australia are experiencing very dry conditions again this year? Finally, will he review the situation with a view to making assistance available to that State? 
The Budget of 1970 which is before the House is no doubt an instrument of some importance and one which causes considerable debate. It is never the best seller or the most popular document of the year, but nevertheless it is somewhat important. Before proceeding with the various aspects of the Budget I want to go back to Tuesday night of last week and refer to one or two points that were made. I wish to refer to the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which I think are quite relevant. He said: 
The people should have the opportunity to answer this question themselves. 
He was referring to the Budget. He continued: 
An election is the only way to give them the opportunity. We have no doubt how they would answer. In such an election, on such a cause, the people would be delivering judgment not only on the Budget, not only on the Gorton Government, but on themselves as a nation. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that the people would be sitting in judgment. During the course of the address of the Leader of the Opposition to the House he did not pui in any sense at all what in fact the people would be sitting in judgment on. He simply referred to the Budget as we see it before the House and reflected on it. He did not make any counter propositions. This is fair enough, because speaking on the same night was the shadow Treasurer of the Opposition, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  to whom I as a member of this House listen with great respect. I weigh his words in a general sense and I have considerable appreciation of the arguments that the honourable member does put to this House. But I do want to refer to one point. 1 would have thought that as the Leader of the Opposition had made the challenge that the people should be called upon to sit in judgment perhaps the shadow Treasurer of the Opposition would put forward a proposition on which the people could sit in judgment in relation to the Opposition's arguments. But what do we find? As reported in Hansard of 25th August the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said: 
The honourable member for Lilley always takes the opportunity to ask the Opposition what it would do. The Opposition does not have to do anything al the moment. 
Now, in general terms I would agree with the shadow Treasurer of the Opposition if in fact the Leader of the Opposition had not challenged the Government to go to the people. In general terms I would say that what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said was correct but on this occasion if the Opposition asks the people to sit in judgment in relation to an important document such as this Budget then surely they must be able to look not only at the Government's Budget but also at the proposition put forward by the Opposition. But this proposition was not put and, to my knowledge, has not been put to this point of time and I have been listening to a considerable amount of the debate which has been proceeding in this House. 
To use the words of the Leader of the Opposition, if the people are asked to sit in judgment on the Budget are they instead to give an open cheque, because from the remarks of members of the Opposition in this debate the Opposition would be spending many more millions of dollars on many more items. From what I can see at the moment the people of Australia would be asked to present the Opposition with an open cheque to proceed with government if it ever has the opportunity of doing so. The point I make is that if the Opposition wants to challenge the Government over a document such as the Budget then surely it must put forward some instrument containing alternative propositions. This has not been done. 
The Budget this year provides for a total expenditure of $7, 883m. There are some very substantial items included in the expenditure listed. I think the biggest item is payments to the States. This involves a sum of $2,708m which is $291m more than was allocated in the previous Budget. These payments represent 35 per cent of total expenditure. There has been a lot of discussion in recent times about the State governments receiving insufficient money from the Commonwealth Government to carry out the work they have before them. This matter has been referred to by various members of the Opposition. This year this Government has provided a considerable increase for the States. Changes in interest rates and so forth over the next few years will considerably improve the situation of the State governments. All honourable members want to see progress in the discharge of State responsibilities such as the provision of schools, hospitals and other things. 
The second major allocation in this Budget is for defence. The defence vote in this Budget is $ 1, 137m and represents about 14 per cent of our total expenditure for the year. The item which possibly has been discussed more than any other in this debate is social welfare. The allocation for social welfare in this Budget is SI, 820m. lt represents 23 per cent of the total Budget expenditure. The 3 items I have mentioned, payments to the States, defence and social welfare, represent about 72 per cent of total expenditure for this financial year. 
I believe, as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  pointed out today in this House, that in this modern day we cannot isolate a particular item within the field of social services but that we must look at the overall situation for which $l.,820m has been allocated. This allocation represents almost a quarter of the estimated expenditure for this financial year, lt is a pretty fair figure for any nation to be allocating to social welfare. This is not to say that 1 would not. like to have seen pensioners receive more than the 50c rise announced in the Budget speech. However we must take into consideration the requirements of elderly people and what has been done for them. This brings us closer to the facts of life. For instance, the aged persons homes scheme is excellent. By building more homes we will give old people a greater sense of security. Health benefits and other items within the social welfare field also give them security and this is what they need. 
Before passing on to other matters I want to refer to the wheat growers. I think it was the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who said last week, during the course of this debate, that the Budget speech did not contain a reference to wheat growers. I want to point out that there is a provision in this Budget for the sum of $30.5m in respect of exports from last season's wheat crop. This provision follows the passage a year or so ago of legislation in which the Government guarantees to the wheat growers a sum of $2,000m as part of a 5-year plan now in operation. This allocation of $30.5m is part of that guarantee of $2,000m. Obviously, because we passed an Act of that magnitude a year or so ago, it is not necessary to repeat the performance in this Budget. 
In the rural sector generally there is an increase in this Budget allocation of $77,265,000, which brings the allocation to a little over $215m. This is a considerable rise but, as all honourable members know, our rural industries are in real trouble. It is not a bit of good for any honourable member to stand in this chamber and cry wolf. It is no use blaming anybody for this situation. Generally, over the years, our rural industries have had reasonable seasons. However, not for many years can I remember such periods of drought as we have had in recent times, from the west coast to the east coast of Australia. We can try to handle problems relating to sales, prices and costs but when we are faced at the same time with tremendous droughts it is very difficult indeed to handle the situation. The droughts have broken down the morale of country people. 1 use the phrase 'country people' because they are all affected. Let us not be misunderstood that if this situation continues more than the country people will be affected, regardless of mineral or other developments in Australia at the present time. 
The inflationary spiral seems to be continuing. The nation has been running with full employment and this has been the case for some time. This is very good providing there is full employment in every section of the community. The dangers of intiation can be very great indeed if responsibility is not exercised in this sphere. This is the situation at the moment. The present conditions influence not only thos: people on fixed incomes, such as recipients of social welfare payments about whom I have been speaking, but also industries which earn their returns from exports. Industries which sell their products within Australia have an opportunity to remain level with existing economic conditions but the situation is somewhat different if they are selling outside Australia. 
In this respect I want to deal firstly with the wool industry, which is very important to Australia. In recent years and for many reasons there has been a degrading of the wool industry. On 2 occasions since 1951 the Commonwealth Government has tried to do something about the all important aspect of marketing the Australian wool clip. This is an item which should not be meddled with and it cannot be propped up in any way. The wool clip realises something like $800m a year and the industry is quite capable of standing on its own feet. The wool industry is a tremendous one but unfortunately politics within the industry have led to its being degraded. Various factions, either wanting power or having different ideas, have been fighting within the industry for many years. This is still proceeding even though the industry is in dire straits. Yet industry leaders still seem to want to fight. At the same time one thing is very clear; that is that wool growers have come to the end of their tether and many of them want a change. Wool growers realise that many of the leaders, not all of them, who should have been looking after them have not been doing their work properly. 
For instance, millions of dollars have been spent on wool promotion - I am just picking out this one item - and this money has come from the pockets of the wool growers. If you want to analyse the situation, this money literally has gone down the drain because there is no evidence to indicate that it has in any way affected the price that wool growers have received for their product. The important point is that there is no relationship between the price of raw wool and that of finished articles. This has been proved time and time again when the price of wool has fallen almost to the point that you could give it to the textile people. I understand, incidentally, that representatives of the textile industry are coming to Australia next week. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Paterson, says that they have arrived. Even if we gave these people the entire Australian wool clip we would not buy the finished article for one cent cheaper. Statistics prove that the price of wool has moved from 2 per lb to about 20c per lb,, which is the price at the moment. This is a disgraceful state of affairs and if it is allowed to continue for any length of time I would say that the problem within the wool industry will become so great that this Government or anyone else in this country will never be able to restore the industry. The present situation is so unwarranted and unnecessary. Wool today is worth a lot more than is being paid for it on the world market. There is no evidence, when a comparison is made with the price paid for textiles, that wool today is not worth a reasonable price on the world market. Wool should have every opportunity of demanding a reasonable price and providing a reasonable return to the wool grower. 
Wc are concerned with two distinct areas - one is the wool industry and the other is the textile industry. If we get rid of a lot of the conglomeration in the middle of these 2 areas we might get somewhere. This is the object of the exercise in setting up a single statutory marketing authority. This must be done and it must be done quickly. It has been said that if we try to meddle with the price of wool the factories in the northern hemisphere or elsewhere will go over to synthetics. But representatives of the textile industry would not be in Australia this week worrying about the wool industry if it was so easy to go over to synthetics. They would be telling us that the problems of the wool industry were ours alone to solve. There are big countries that would love to get their hands on the total Australian wool clip. They have the labour and the ability to do this, but not the capital. They have all of the requirements to process the wool and to sell it, and they know that this is the case. These countries have the ability to process the whole of the Australian wool clip and would do so. However, to date they have not had the opportunity. 
The people who want to downgrade the wool industry even further in this country should not only look at the economics of this country and the part the wool industry plays but they should also look at the very defence of the western world. These people know, honourable members know and governments know that the world cannot do without the Australian wool clip and wool clips of other countries. We know that this is so from past history. God help us if ever the Australian wool clip is not available to the world. If that day comes we will be in real trouble. The wool industry is too big to play around with; it is too big to be handled by people who know absolutely nothing about it and people with vested interests, such as bankers, stock agents and everyone else who has decried new marketing proposals for as long as I can remember, and that is a fair time. Regardless of what has been said in other circles the Government has to pick up the problems of the wool industry and do something about them. Pressure is always applied immediately the wool industry tries to do something with its own commodity. This industry belongs to the wool grower. Wool is a great fibre and it is time the Government tackled the problems of the industry and demanded a reasonable price for wool on the world market. This can be done. I have no hesitation in saying that the wool industry of Australia, given the chance to market its product in a proper commercial way, will go ahead in leaps and bounds and will return to its former status. I sincerely hope that decisions are made despite what vested interests and other overseas individuals, most of whom are not wool growers, might say to try to weaken such decisions. 
We know why the industry is faced with problems. We know the interests that are involved. We have been well aware of this for a long time. We cannot wait while the industry fights about politics or its leadership. The pressures that are applied in the industry are tremendous. The Government has to pick up the industry and do something with it in the name of this country. Wool prices have been down because of many of the reasons I have mentioned. Drought was one of these. Once wool prices go down or the sheep market drops, as it has in parts of Australia in recent weeks, the whole economics of farming is affected. Obviously this problem also has to be looked at. Farm finance has been provided in many ways. It has been made available through the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, by private banks, by stock agents, by pastoral houses and so on over the years. The war service land settlement scheme has also helped the farmer. However, all of these areas of finance have to be looked at very closely. We have reached the stage where the financing of farms must be put on an equal footing with the financing of other industries. Except for rather ad hoc finance which has been made available over the years, in many ways the farming industry has never had the benefit of long term finance. We intend to bring down some recommendations that will correct this matter. I think I mentioned in the House last week or the week before when talking about constitutional matters that we have a situation in which the States are reorganising and financing projects concerning the farming industry. Such arrangements must also be taken into consideration by the Commonwealth. The States are primarily responsible in this area. As 1 see it the States and the Commonwealth should get together to work out some satisfactory financial arrangements that will put confidence back into the rural industries. 
Australia has developed to its present stage because of the part the rural industries play and have played over the years in producing exports. In many ways we will be in for a big surprise if we think we can get along without our rural industries. I know that minerals are playing a big part in Australia's development. My own State of Western Australia, more than any other State of the Commonwealth, is producing minerals. At the moment minerals are playing their part. However, minerals have a habit on occasions of being short term contributors to the economy. Minerals are not as reliable as the world's primary industries have proved to be. The primary industries are of major importance and we should see that they continue to be encouraged. The wheat industry is in trouble because of over production. However, this will level itself out. The wool industry, as I have mentioned, is in trouble because of mismanagement over the years. As I have said, this also can be sorted out. Over the years the meat industry has been reasonably sound although as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has indicated there are problems in regard to various markets. These problems are related not so much to the markets themselves as to the hurdles of the requirements set by the United States of America and other countries. I believe that the United States is playing a very hard game. However, these problems are a challenge to Australia. They are a challenge not only to the producers but to the various State governments and the Commonwealth Government and to industry leaders themselves. 
It has often been said that the Government does not give a lead to various branches of primary industry or in fact any other industry in regard to what the future may hold. It is not for any government to direct an industry as to what it shall do. It is for a government to give advice which is available to it of possible trends from time to time. This is done. Quite recently the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  delivered in the House a speech which indicated his views on what he had seen in a recent trip abroad. He referred principally to the position relating to Britain's joining the European Economic Community. The Minister spelt out in plain terms what he thought would be the situation if in fact Britain joined the EEC. He went on to add a warning to country people and to the people of Australia as a whole about the position that would arise if Britain goes in under the terms which I think will apply to her entry. The Minister for Trade and Industry spelt out a warning and this is fair enough. He made quite plain the situation that exists in relation to those matters. I think the position that will in fact result from Britain's entry into the EEC is clear enough. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the need to rearrange finances within our primary industries. This requirement is paramount in our minds at the moment. It will be of little use providing for long term financial assistance for primary industries unless we can do something to improve their income earning capacity. I had mentioned the wheat industry and the guarantees that have been made available to it by this Government through legislation. This, of course, is a tremendous help. I had dealt also with the wool industry, which is uppermost in my minds at present. It would be of little use doing anything about refinancing properties in Australia without doing something for the wool industry. A reconstruction programme would not be of much use because with the present price of wool, even with good seasonal conditions, it is impossible for the wool industry to be financially sound. The wool industry is the basis of Australia's primary industry and it needs immediate attention. Of course there are other industries, such as the meat industry, the egg industry and the dried fruits industry, which we should not bypass or forget, but the major problems in primary industries have arisen because of the drop in the price of wool. Millions of dollars are involved. Every lc less that we get for our wool means an overall loss of about $18m. If we were able to secure the same price for wool as we obtained last year - about 10c per lb more - the wool industry would benefit by about $180m. This is a challenge not only to the Commonwealth and State governments but to all industries which must face up to these problems. 
Local government is suffering because of the circumstances in which we find ourselves today. Figures that have been supplied to us reveal the percentage increase in the liabilities of local government authorities.In terms of percentages, their liabilities are greater than those of State governments and the Commonwealth Government. Local government comes within the jurisdiction of the States and I hope that the State governments will assist local authorities to overcome their problems. One way by which this could be done is by removing from the local authorities the burden of interest rates they now have. They have to pay higher rates of interest than do the State governments on their borrowings of loan moneys from the Commonwealth and higher than the rates on most of the money that the Commonwealth borrows. The adverse conditions affecting the wool industry apply to local government authorities and to business in country areas. Our whole economic viability is affected. Secondary industries which are engaged in manufacturing machinery for primary industry are now operating at a loss. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in dealing with the series of Bills before the House, I wish to refer particularly to the Urea Bounty Bill 1970, the purpose of which is to extend the operation of the Urea Bounty Act 1966-1969 for a maximum period of 6 months to 30 December 1970 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. This extension is to give the Tariff Board the opportunity to make certain investigations into this industry. 
In general, we are speaking about bounty protection for industry, lt can be said that the policy in relation to bounties and tariffs does not differ although there is some difference between a bounty and a tariff. The object of the exercise is much the same in one sense, that is, to protect an industry. We do not argue about the protection of secondary industry by tariffs. Perhaps we may argue about the degree of protection given to secondary industry but not about the policy of protection. But, if secondary industry is to be protected by tariffs, it is reasonable to expect that primary industry should obtain reasonable protection for. its purpose. 
Originally, the bounty on urea set out to do precisely this. 1 think it was the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who mentioned that the price of imported urea in the early 1960s was $120 per ton. That figure was high. It was too high for the Australian agricultural industry. The Government in its wisdom introduced a subsidy to assist the users of urea. That subsidy was $80 equivalent at that time, and still is. The Urea Bounty Bill now before the House provides for the payment of a bounty of $16 per ton to the manufacturer of urea. Some change has occurred around the world in production costs. This sort of thing can be expected. I would suggest that, in this field, throughput is a major item in relation to cost. In recent years, various countries have been dumping urea in Australia at very low prices. But it was not payable enough for them to dump it here until such time as a subsidy was introduced for the industry in Australia. In other words, I do not think that dumping ever occurs in a country unless protection is provided for the industry concerned in that country. If a country is open to the exports of the rest of the world at large, no such thing as dumping, as a rule, exists. Since the original bounty of $80 equivalent was introduced dumping has been happening here. Some discussion about it has occurred today. No doubt this will be considered by the Tariff Board in relation to what has happened since the introduction of the subsidy. 
The amendment to the Urea Bounty Act in 1969 did certain things. I wish to explain this to the House as 1 read it. I wish to refer also to the report of the Auditor-General for 1969-70 in this respect. Perhaps this is quite a good document from which to quote to support my case. Some protection is provided for the user of urea in relation to the price within Australia as against the price which may be charged by overseas companies. In referring to the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy, the Auditor-General states at page 62 of his report: 
The Act was amended during the year to extend for a further 3 years from 1 November 1969, the period during which subsidy is payable. In addition the previous restrictions on the payment of subsidy on imported goods were relaxed to permit subsidy to be paid, under certain circumstances, on goods imported for purposes other than to meet a shortfall in local production. 
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the subsidy is payable on nitrogenous fertilisers produced in Australia at registered premises and on similar goods imported to meet a shortfall or which can be purchased on more favourable terms than the locally-produced goods. 
I think that is an important statement. It is taken from the Auditor-General's report. That is the way he sees it; it is also the way I see it. If it is interpreted correctly, as I understand it should be interpreted, the Act provides that where a country can manufacture and export to Australia this type of fertiliser on a non-dump basis, the fertiliser produced wilt be allowed to compete with fertiliser produced by companies within Australia. That is my interpretation if I read the Act correctly and if I read the report of the Auditor-General correctly. 
This in an important aspect of the whole operation of this subsidy. If companies can set up factories in this country on an economic basis using techniques equal to those employed in other parts of the world, and can compete with those techniques, that is reasonable enough. That provision is contained in the Act But I repeat that the Government introduced this subsidy to assist the industry - in this case, it was to assist the users because, at the time of introduction, there was no such industry here - because the overseas price of urea was extremely dear. 
I wish to make some mention of quality. It will be seen that the 2 industries now manufacturing in Australia are on the eastern side of the continent, near enough to the east coast. If this fertiliser is to I imported into Western Australia, as it has been in recent years, I think that special considerations ought to be given to that aspect of the industry. At the moment under section 8 of the Act the bounty is not payable in respect of any urea unless the Comptroller-General is satisfied that it is of good and merchantable quality. As the Minister knows, in Western Australia we have had experience of the quality falling off. It is a little late after a farmer has made his purchase in good faith and has had that purchase delivered to his property, which may be some hundreds of miles from the port through which the fertiliser came in, to find that it is of extremely poor quality and cannot be put through a machine of any description. It would be a useful exercise to calculate what this would cost the primary producer. I suggest that this position be watched very carefully. 
Under section 13 of the Act the Minister may take samples of urea to make sure that the quality is up to standard for the purpose of paying bounty. If Western Australia - and I am speaking for that State only at the moment - is to import urea from the eastern States, and if a subsidy of $16 a ton or some other figure in future is to be paid on it, and if other moneys such as the $80 equivalent on a bounty is to be paid, which is a significant amount of public money, it is fair enough that inspections be made of this commodity at the point of delivery if it is some 2,000 miles away from where the product is manufactured. A lot of things can happen between the point of manufacture and the point of delivery by the company. Although fertiliser may be inspected at one point and be quite satisfactory, it has a habit of changing through age, transport or certain other things, (f it is not being inspected at the point of delivery - and obviously it was not at the time to which I referred - the Minister should consider doing this. When a shipment is sent a long distance an inspection should be made at the point of delivery for the purposes of paying the bounty and also for the protection of the purchaser. 1 am not too sure exactly where the inspections are made at the moment but I would expect them to be made at the factory site. I put that suggestion quite earnestly because the inconvenience that is : caused to some people is tremendous. It is all right for a company to say that it refunded $10 a ton or something of that nature, but this amount is quite insignificant compared with the inconvenience caused. I believe we should make every effort to obtain the best price that we can in relation to inputs in primary industry. Primary industry is in real trouble; we all know that. We have to look at its problems very seriously. We cannot afford to allow the costs in the industry to continue to go up. It is not reasonable to expect prices in one section of the community to keep rising. 
The bounties have been of advantage to the user of urea and other fertilisers. Despite what has been said, the bounties have been of tremendous assistance to the primary industries. To say that the bounties are not of advantage to primary industries is so much rot. The test, of course, would be to take the bounties off fertiliser to see what the reaction would be. Perhaps it is in the minds of some members of the Opposition, to judge by what has been said, to reduce the bounty. It has been said that only a small percentage of the bounty is reaching primary industry and that the rest of it is going to the manufacturers. Perhaps it is the intention of the Opposition, if it ever has the opportunity, to reduce the bounty. This would be the real test of whether it is of advantage to primary industry or not. The superphosphate bounty brings the price of fertiliser in Western Australia today below the 1.963 reduced bounty price. If we considered the amount of money that primary industry would have to pay if the bounty were reduced we would see that it is significant. Primary industry certainly could not afford to pay it. As I set out to say, the Tariff Board will be having a look at the bounty on urea. There are many factors it will have to look at. I believe that the present Urea Bounty Act, as I illustrated, allows other countries to export equivalent products to this country if it is in the interests of those who are purchasing the product. That is how I read it. If the Tariff Board looks at it in this light, obviously those companies manufacturing urea in this country will have to compete with factories overseas. I certainly hope that this policy is continued. I have no intention of mentioning the other Acts. I support this measure, which will give the Tariff Board some time to look at these products. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry say whether AustraliaUnited Kingdom-Europe north bound general cargo freight rates have been agreed upon? If so, what are the variations as against previous rates and have contracts been signed? Can the Minister also indicate the responsibility of shipowners in regard to the lifting of cargoes from Australian ports under such contracts? 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry concerning the export of meat to the United States of America. Can the Minister say whether it is true that the United States will not now accept beef exports from the Wyndham meat works? Can the Minister say also how many other meat works in Australia are so situated? Will the Minister indicate the exact position relating to the export of mutton from meat works in Australia to the United States and other markets at this time? 
Order! The honorable member for Stirling will cease interjecting. 
The next point I make is this: What sort of a statutory corporation is the one proposed? What is a statutory corporation? This term has not been defined this afternoon by the Opposition. In fact, it has never been defined by the Opposition. Some sort of assumption is made that it will be something which already exists in another field. If I may try to put to the Opposition what in fact could be regarded as a basis for a statutory corporation, let me put it in these broad terms: In the broadest sense, a statutory corporation is an organisation established by Parliament to operate on a similar basis to a private corporation with the same obligations as a private corporation particularly in regard to the payment of Government levies, for example, income tax, sales tax, payroll tax, etc. Then I go on, because there are some variations which could be applied. The statutory corporation could be a form of organisation which contains a management board, all the members of which may be drawn from outside the service, or some drawn from outside and some from inside the service. In other ways, the organisation would remain a portion of a department of state. Or the statutory corporation could be an organisation which is completely divorced from ministerial control, apart from the presentation of documents to the Parliament, and is managed by either of the combinations which I have described. Or it could be a corporation such as the Overseas Telecommunications Commission where management is conducted by a board but the Minister is left accountable to Parliament, even for the detailed operations of the organisation. 
What does the Labor Party mean when it says: 'We want a statutory corporation'? It cannot have all  those  things. It can have one, or it can have alternatives. It would have been reasonable to expect the Labor Party, in putting before the Parliament the proposition for the appointment of a select committee on which we as members are asked to vote, to indicate the types of statutory corporation on which we should exercise our judgment, but it has not done anything of the sort. I think that the nebulous way in which the proposition has been presented to the Parliament does not justify Parliament's consideration of it. 
The question of finance obviously enters into the matter. I speak particularly of raising capital. It is very easy for the honourable member for Stirling to quote what was said by  Mr O'Grady,  a former DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs. It is suggested that one can go to the banks to secure long term finance. But the provision of long term finance is not a part of the operations of banks. It has been suggested that one can go onto the public market. Let us stop for a moment to consider that proposition. The Commonwealth is charged with the responsibility to raise loan moneys for the States and for itself - 80 per cent for the States and 20 per cent for the Commonwealth. In 20 years not one penny of the money which has been raised in that way has come to the Commonwealth because it has not been able to borrow sufficient money for the purposes of the States. 
Semi-governmental authorities also raise money on the public market. Within the normal financial structures of the community, local authorities seek money from these financial institutions. If we disregard the question of interst, which is what the Labor Party suggests, we would want between $3 50m and $400m a year to run the Post Office. The Commonwealth cannot raise enough money for the States, but the Labor Party says that we should superimpose another requirement of $350m to $400m a year. Does the Labor Party believe that the Commonwealth would be able to raise that sort of money? Does it believe that this up and down operation is the basis on which to run a business organisation such as. the Post Office which must know, year by year on a planned basis, what finance it will have available if it is to give the community an organisation which is sound in nearly every respect that could be named? The Labor Party ought to take a real look at this sort of philosophy. 
I suggest to the Labor Party that it should have a talk to members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association because it has a view, which is different from that expressed by the Labor Party in this House, regarding the establishment of the Post Office as a statutory corporation. It is hardly necessary for me to say much more in relation to the question of interest, but I want to make one point, which I think is important: If we were to cut out interest and reduce telecommunication charges, there would be an increased demand for telephones which it would be impossible to meet. The Labor Party may say that that is only because of a lack of ability to manage the affairs of the Post Office. With overfull employment in Australia, we just do not go out onto the highways and byways and seek technical people to work in the Australian Post Office. I am bound to say to the House that at the present time it is almost impossible for the Post Office to meet the demand which is being made on its services because it is impossible to get technical people to do installation work and the cable work associated with it. If we were to increase the demand for telephones I believe that we would get into a terrific mess in a comparatively short time. The Labor Party can say that there is mismanagement in the Post Office, if it likes. I say that it is not mismanagement. The management of the Post Office has been geared to principles which have been accepted by the Parliament and which have been interpreted by the management. I believe that I should make this point to the House. 1 have only 2 or 3 minutes remaining. The honourable member for Stirling referred to inefficiency in the Post Office. There is inefficiency in every business organisation in Australia. There is not unnecessary inefficiency in the Post Office. There is not inefficiency in management and there is not inefficiency on the part of the employees. I am quite prepared to stand here or anywhere else in Australia and give full credit to the employees of the Australian Post Office for the wonderful job which they do for the Australian community. If honourable members try to suggest to me that there is some new element of human infallibility because a letter disappeared or a postman put some letters under a culvert or threw a bag of mail over the Princes Bridge into the Yarra River, and that this is the fault of the Post Office, I say that it is one of the things which you must come up against when you are dealing with human beings. Where there appears to be inefficiency and where in fact letters do not seem to get to their destination, I assure honourable members that it is not because of lack of willingness on the part of the Post Office staff. 
There is more inefficiency in outside business in relation to postal matters than there is in the Post Office. Honourable members who are Victorians only have to cast their minds back to what happened in relation to a horse that did not turn up for a race on a Saturday afternoon. The Post Office received a great blast. The trainer of the horse said that the letter had been posted on the previous Tuesday but that the racing committee did not receive it. We made a check. The trainer did not even post the letter. He gave it to someone else to post. When we checked with that person he told us that the letter had been posted on the Saturday morning. 

 - Mr Chairman, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who has just resumed his seat, commenced his speech by attacking the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  on the subject of the statement that the Minister made recently in this House concerning the European Economic Community and the effect that the entry of Great Britain into the EEC would have on Australia if and when, as the Minister said, Great Britain joined the EEC without paying due concern to the situation that would arise in Australia from its action. 
I believe that was an honest statement by the Minister, outlining to the people of Australia the situation as he saw it. This is, 1 believe, the responsibility of a Minister. He has stated his view not only on the occasion that I have mentioned but also previously in precise and very definite terms. When I consider the service which the Minister for Trade and Industry has given to Australia, I just cannot explain the statement by the honourable member for Oxley that the Minister is not a responsible Minister. 
The honourable member for Oxley went on to say that the Minister for Trade and 
Industry and his Department had done nothing in relation to trade arrangements with other countries to enable Australia to offset any reaction from the European Economic Community bloc and also from Britain joining the EEC. First, may I remind the honourable member for Oxley of the trade agreement negotiated by the Minister for Trade and Industry with Japan. Japan has turned out to be one of our major trading nations. May I recall also to the honourable member for Oxley, as he is walking out of the Committee, that, as I recollect, every member of the Labor Party voted against that trade agreement with the Japanese at that time. 
Yes, every one of them. What do we find today? We find quite a different situation in which Australia enjoys a very substantial market with Japan. That agreement was negotiated by the then Minister for Trade and Industry, the man who still holds that portfolio. 
I remind the honourable member for Oxley also of a few of the other agreements negotiated in this period. 1 mention the meat agreement with the United States of America. We have our problems in this respect. Australia provides almost  50  per cent of the total meat imports of the United States of America. Although we would like to see the percentage increased, this agreement is another achievement of the Minister for Trade and Industry. When we turn to the sugar industry we see what has been done by the Minister for Trade and Industry in this area. We know of the situation which has faced the sugar industry in recent times and of the agreement which was negotiated by the Minister. I am not a Queenslander, but I do not think that Queenslanders will argue with me when I say that that agreement has saved the sugar industry. 
We turn to grains. This is one of the toughest negotiating areas in the world, because of the surpluses in the wheat industry. The International Grains Arrangement, too, was negotiated by the Minister for Trade and Industry. Does any man who knows the first thing about wheat deny that the wheat industry would be in a chaotic situation today were it not for the International Grains Arrangement? When the United States of America tried quite recently to break down the machinery of the Arrangement, lt was the Minister for Trade and Industry who left this country and went to Washington to save the day, after a series of meetings in London had been unsuccessful. I repeat that the wheat industry in Australia would be in a chaotic situation were it not for the International Grains Arrangement. This Arrangement has to be renewed by June of next year, if my memory serves me correctly. This will not be an easy task. I do not want to take up too much time on this matter, but perhaps I should refer to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement which also was negotiated by the Minister for Trade and Industry. These are only a few of the agreements I could mention which have been negotiated by the Minister. However, I will turn to other matters. 
We all know of the problems which face primary industry not only in Australia but in many other countries. If we look at the overall situation we see that Australian secondary industries have built up over the years, and this is all very good. They have helped to increase the population. But what happens when we are building up secondary industries? If we examine the criteria used by secondary industries we find, in the first place, that they are protected. The goods are produced in Australia for an Australian market, and the industries work within that area, in the same way as British primary industry works within the area of Britain. In other words, secondary industries sell practically everything they produce within the country. If we look at the overall situation of secondary industries we find that they try to sell approximately 70 per cent of their production at home and 30 per cent is made available for export at some future time. They feel that they can operate on that basis. 
What do we find in the rural industries in this country? Wool is our largest rural export. Ninety-five per cent is sold overseas and 5 per cent is sold on the local market. Wool is presenting the greatest difficulty in primary industry in Australia. Other countries are not faced with this problem. Many other countries sell a majority of their goods within their own country, as I have already pointed out. I do not think that anybody will dispute the fact that wool is presenting the major problem in primary industry. I do not dispute that there are difficulties in other areas, but the situation facing the woo) industry is certainly very serious. 
Certain assistance has been provided for the wool industry in this Budget, and certain other matters are being considered, as the Minister indicated at question time this afternoon. I say to the Committee and to the Government that the situation facing the wool indusry is so serious, as I see it, that the Government must take very positive steps in the very near future. The situation is deteriorating every day. I have no fear whatsoever, as I have said in this place previously, that the wool industry has an opportunity to stand on its own feet if it is given the chance to do so. Why should the wool industry be any different from any other export industry or rural industry? I refer to surpluses, about which we hear so often. Surpluses are accumulated in many industries. There is a surplus of iron ore in this country. Wc have supplies which will last 100 yeans, but we do not sell that iron ore at a price which is below what one considers to be a reasonable price. Negotiations are carried on with other countries, as has happened with the sale of iron ore from my own State of Western Australia. There has been some dispute about the price of the iron ore. Regardless of whether there are 1 ,000 million tons of iron ore lying in the ground in various parts of this continent, we do not give it away. The fact that there are thousands of milions of tons of metals in Australia does not deprive the companies that are selling them from getting a reasonable price. 
I shall run through some of the figures relating to the export of greasy wool; they are quite interesting. In 1969 the Repubic of Germany purchased 96,000,000 lb of wool for $44m. In 1970 she purchased 102,000,000 lb of wool for $44m. The result of that exercise was that in 1970 Germany received an additional 6,000,000 lb of wool for the same price as she paid the previous year. In 1969 Italy purchased 130,000,000 lb of wool for 865m. In 1970 she purchased 135,000,000 lb of wool for $58m, which means that she purchased 5,000,000 lb additional wool for $7m less than she paid the previous year. The pattern goes on. In 1969 the United Kingdom purchased 115,000,000 lb of wool for $55m. In 1970 she purchased 137,000,000 lb of wool for $55m. It means that the United Kingdom purchased 22,000,000 lb of additional wool for the same money as she paid in the previous year. In 1969 Japan, which is one of the largest buyers of wool from this country, purchased 530,000,000 lb of wool for $26 lm. In 1970 she purchased 569,000,000 lb of wool for $254m. This means that she purchased 39,000,000 lb of additional wool for $7rn less than she paid the previous year. When we look at the total sales of greasy wool we find that, in 1969 total exports amounted to 1,467,000,000 lb for a return of $7 17m. In 1970 total exports amounted to 1,571,000,000 lb for a return of $684m. The result of this exercise is that in 1970 104,000,000 lb of additional wool was exported for $33m less money than was received in 1969. These figures do not include scoured wool; they refer only to greasy wool. Since that time the price of wool has fallen further. 
It is my firm belief - I have always believed this - that there is a demand for wool in the world and that we can obtain a better price than is being offered at present if we face the situation and do something about it. This is what I say to the Government. As every day passes we are losing millions of dollars not only for wool growers but for Australia. We must move. If we want a better illustration of what is happening today, we have only to look at the huge stockpiling of wheat in the Northern Hemisphere and in Australia. The International Grains Arrangement has been operating for a number of years, and certain other arrangements have been operating within various countries. Despite the surpluses, and despite the present situation which is facing the wheat industry, we have been able to hold wheat at a reasonable price on the world market. But in wool we have a commodity which is not in over-supply in the world and for which we can demand a reasonable price. 
In looking at the history of what has happened in the last 20 years we find that the problem in this industry has been one of leadership. There has been disagreement as to what should be done. There have been many powerful interests beyond the wool industry itself - some in Australia and some overseas - who have opposed at all times any interference or any change at all in the marketing of wool. These pressures and these interests are still operating and are resisting any change at this time. I say again that it is up to the Government to move as rapidly as possible to implement the action it proposes. We know that the Minister has said several times in this chamber that he is doing this and indeed he said this morning that this is in the hands of the Government. The Government has an obligation to move and move very rapidly to rectify this situation and to give the wool grower in this country a chance to obtain a reasonable price which I claim can be obtained in world markets today. 
I believe that wool is required today. There is no surplus of wool at all. There is a market for wool. The textile people who came out here from various parts of the world only a few weeks ago would not have been here if they did not want to see a continual flow of wool to their factories throughout the world. If they could go over to synthetics as they sometimes claim - they in fact claim that they could do without wool - they would not have come to the other side of the world to do what they tried to do here and that is to retain control over the wool situation in this country. I suggest that the Government should take action to ensure that the wool clip of Australia is not controlled by overseas interests but is controlled here in Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
At the end of the last financial year what was the percentage of loans outstanding from the Commonwealth Development Bank, the Term Loan Funds, the Australian Banks' Export Refinance Corporation, the Australian Resources Development Bank, and the trading banks (other than term loans) for period, (a) up to 180 days, (b) 180 to 1 year (c) 1 year to 2 years, (d) 2 to 3 years, (e) 3 to 4 years, (f) 4 to 5 years, (g) 5 to fi years, (h) 6 to 7 years, (i) 7 to 8 years, 0) 8 to 10 years, (k) 10 to 12 years, (1) 12 to 15 years, (m) IS to 20 years and (n) over 20 years. 
At the end of the last financial year what was the percentage of loans outstanding from the Reserve Bank for the same periods. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question. Is it a fact that the United States pavilion at Expo 70 was equipped with a synthetic carpet? Is it also a fact that this carpet had to be replaced during the Exposition? Is it a fact that the replaced synthetic carpet also was worn out at the conclusion of the Exposition? Is it correct that the Australian pavilion was fitted with an Australian wool carpet which was in good condition at the conclusion of the Exposition and is to be used again? Does this not prove the superior quality and value of wool as against man-made fibres? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether the British India Steam Navigation Company is proposing to increase freight rates on general cargo from Australia to Arabian Gulf ports. Have there been any discussions with the shipping company and Australian interests? If so, what are the rate variations proposed and what stage have negotiations reached? Is there any variation in the methods of negotiation in respect of these services and those of the Conference Lines to the United Kingdom and Europe? 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  made one or two remarks on which I must comment. He said that this Government had taken no action in relation to price control and the fixing of prices of goods. I would have thought that the honourable member had been in this House long enough to have read the Commonwealth Constitution which, of course, illustrates quite clearly that this Government has no power whatsoever - except under the Defence Act - to fix prices. It is therefore quite wrong to say that this Government has not taken any action relating to the control of prices; under our Constitution it has no power to do so. Another statement made by the honourable member was that wages have nothing at all to do with prices. This is a remarkable statement which is made on various occasions. What he said, in effect, is that increases in wages are not a cause of increases in prices and costs. I refer the honourable member, by way of illustration, to the Postmaster-General's Department which has in its employ about 100,000 people. Would the honourable member suggest that if the wages and salaries of those people in that Department were increased this would have no effect whatsoever upon the costs of that Department? The cost obviously runs into millions every time there is an increase in wages. This to me is elementary but the honourable member for Stirling said that wage increases have no effect oh prices. I have given this illustration relating to costs and prices within the Postmaster-General's Department, with which we in this Parliament deal and are concerned. I am not saying that there are no grounds for those increases. I am simply arguing that wages do have an effect on prices. 
Reading the text of the matter proposed for discussion one would imagine that unions or leaders in industry do not at any time make reference to matters relating to wages and salaries or conditions of employment which would come within the orbit of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Reference is made to these matters from time to time by all sorts of people throughout Australia both within responsible circles and. otherwise. This matter has been introduced into this Parliament by the Australian Labor Party. It has not been introduced by the Government, lt is a matter which is raised by many people. It is a subject which involves the various effects of wage increases, rising prices and decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from time to time. When the hearing of the national wage case was taking place in 1969 the unions demonstrated outside the court in support of the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions.  Mr Hawke  addressed the demonstrators as to the terms of the Council's submissions. This was at a time when the court was addressing itself to this issue. 
This matter is raised in all parts of Australia on various occasions. At times Ministers make responsible statements in relation to this subject. As I have said previously in this House it is a very important matter. The attacks on the Commission which have from time to time been made by various bodies have been very ill advised. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission system in this country has stood the test of time. The system may not be perfect, but what is perfect in this world? It is machinery which can handle situations involving not only the larger unions, as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has said, but also the smaller unions and the individual bodies in this country which need some voice within the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  thinks that this is very funny. I think it is a pretty serious matter and it is important for these people to have a voice within our Arbitration system, which is independent and can make decisions on behalf of large unions and the small unions alike. If this machinery were ever destroyed in Australia - and God forbid that this should happen - a lot of the small unions in Australia would be very seriously affected. They would not have the power to go to the employers and fight for their causes. The latest figures which I have show that last year the Commission raised the average wages and salaries about 3 per cent in Australia. I think that the actual average is about 9 per cent. The Commonwealth Bank of Australia in its annual report which came out quite recently placed the actual average at about 94 per cent. The bargaining that is taking place in Australia is obviously having an extreme effect upon the whole of the Australian community. 
I feel obliged to say that it is important to all concerned that the Commission should have available to it all the evidence before it comes to a decision. Not only is it important to have the evidence of the unions and the employees but it is also essential to have the evidence of the employers because the decision travels down the line and will affect many people. There is no need to mention how much it affects people on fixed incomes. In relation to the position in the export industries field, particularly the primary industries, my mind goes back nearly 20 years to a case which was before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. One union applied to the court to have a prosperity loading put on the wool industry because wool was then 1 per lb. Is there any voice at the moment from the union for this to be reduced because wool is now 20c per lb? I would hope to hear it but I have not heard it as yet. This is the kind of matter upon which evidence must be given to the Commission. It is important for the Commission to take into account all the evidence which is placed before it by the various bodies involved. The Commission was set up so that all available evidence could be given in the court and a decision made on that evidence. There is a very great responsibility on all affected sections of the community to have placed before the Commission their various views on the various matters before the Commission. In the history of this country there has never been a time when, in relation to our major exporting industries, it has been more important to have this evidence brought before the Commission so that the full effects of the situation can be outlined before the Commission. 
The matter which is now being debated is one that has been introduced on a number of occasions by the Labor Party since I have been in this House. It raises a subject which has throughout the years been discussed not only within the court where the evidence is given but also here in this House. It is raised in various places in this country. In this age of television how often do we see a union leader putting forward a case for his union in relation to this subject? This happens not just once in a while; it happens almost once a week. Is this right or wrong? I will not be the judge of that. It is probably the right of a union leader to express his opinion on these matters. Is it not also right that other unions should also be permitted to express their opinions and disclose information? Is it not only right for the Government to give submissions as it does on these points of view, which are, as I said, very important? I close on this note: All those who are responsible in the employee and employer section of the community and all the producers within Australia have a responsibility to come forward and give evidence or to ensure that evidence is given to the Commission. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question. Is the Minister aware of the. serious decline in wool prices during recent - months and its subsequent effect on wool growers and country people generally?. Will -the Minister ensure that the legislation required to establish the proposed wool commission ; be introduced - without delay? Can the' Minister say when the commission will be in- operation? 
the Bill before the House this evening is an extremely important one. It deals with what is still the most important and biggest single industry in Australia and an industry which is in real trouble. The Bill sets out the powers and functions of the Australian Wool Commission which is to be set up by this legislation. It is a tragedy that this was not done earlier, but the wool industry has been sharply divided on what should be done to assist the industry. We have seen this process developing over the years and the information coming from various sections of the industry has been of an adverse nature. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said that the Commission is not what the industry wants. As I understand the situation, the industry has fully endorsed the Bill. I am sure that both the major wool growing organisations and the Australian Wool Industry Conference have endorsed the Bill unanimously. I would say that as the representatives of the industry, with whom the Minister has to deal, have endorsed this Bill, they have in fact accepted it as a whole. No Bill, especially initial legislation in a field, is perfect. From year to year no doubt there will be changes to this legislation as there have been to other primary industry legislation setting up organisations such as the Australian Wheat Board. No doubt this legislation will be changed as we find ways to improve it. 
The basic point is that the Commission is set up to set a reserve price so as to test the market. This is nothing new to Australia; it has been done before. The Bill will set up a reserve price plan which has proved successful in this country previously. So this is nothing new in the history of Australia. The great tragedy is that it was not carried on after 1951 when the wool industry was in a financial situation to support this type of legislation. So since 1951, when the price of wool was at its highest, we have never seen the price of wool as low as it is today. In fact it is at its lowest price since 1946 when it was 20.41c per lb. Today it is down to about 28c. In 1947 it was 32.92c; the average today is about 28c. The tragedy of the whole situation is that the industry has had no protection in recent times andprices have fallen away to their present level. Part III of the Bill sets out the functions and powers of the Commission. Clause 18 reads: (1.) The functions of the Commission are- 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction; 
This  is  what has been tested  in  the Australian wool market before and  it  can  be  tested again. I have every confidence that given good management  by  the Commission  it  will prove  to be  successful. Before I sit down I hope to  be  able  to  produce -some evidence that might substantiate that. In relation to the setting  of  a flexible reserve price I turn to clause 19(1.) which reads 
The flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Commission shall be a scheme under which - 
from day to day, or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices for the various types of wool being offered for sale at auction are determined by or on behalf of the Commission, having regard to the bidding at recent auctions and to all other relevant information available to the Commission; 
I pin  my  faith on that clause and on the Commission itself,  if  the scheme  is  good enough  to  stand up to the situation  in  which  we  find ourselves today. The wool industry is a terrific industry, but wool prices have been moving downwards. In 1955-56 the average price for greasy wool was 50.08c per  lb.  In 1966-67  it  was 47.38c - moving down - and  in  1967-68  it  was 41.75c, so continuing the downward move. 
In watching this downward trend  in  prices one becomes a little interested  in  what might be happening  to  the textile industry overseas. We have heard a tremendous amount of propaganda from people coming here from textile industries overseas for the first time  in  their lives when  it  was understood  by  them and the rest of Australia that this Government was about  to  bring down legislation to do something about the falling price  of  wool. These people suggested to  us  that  it  was not  in  the best interests  of  the wool grower and that the wool industry was in trouble because of competition with synthetics. Competition with synthetics has been with us for a long time. I do not underestimate competition in any market, but I would like to see a little evidence that competition from this quarter  is  having a detrimental effect. One of the people I have referred to came from one of the textile factories in West Germany - the Norddeutsche Wolkammerei und Kammgarnspinneri. The capital employed in this factory in 1963, in round figures, was 22 million Deutschmarks. The net profit before tax at that time was 3,997,000 
Deutschmarks. If we move to the latest figures which the Parliamentary Library has been able to get for me - all these figures were taken out by the Library - in 1967 we see that the capital employed was 23 million Deutschmarks. The net profit before tax was 4,659,000 Deutschmarks. So at that time, when wool prices started to move downwards, the net profit of this company was in pretty good shape. 
Also amongst the people who came to this country and who have been buying a lot of wool from Australia were representatives of Japan Wool Textiles. Australia is very grateful to all the people who come to this country and trade but it certainly looks for a fair go. Japan Wool Textiles is a representative enterprise manufacturing woollen fabrics. From December 1966 to May 1967 this firm was operating at a profit rate of 30 per cent. From June to November 1967 the profit rate was 41 per cent; it was moving up while the price of wool was moving down. From December 1967 to May 1968 the profit rate was 36 per cent. Honourable members may think that that is an isolated case but I will cite another woollen textile mill in Japan as a further example. This mill manufactures woollen fabric exclusively and in 1967 its sales amounted to around 5,000 million yen. 

 - Mr Speaker, there are one or two things that 1 would like to say about this project which is a particularly important one not only for Western Australia but also for the whole of Australia in relation to defence and other measures within Australia. As I see it, it is Australia's responsibility to build these facilities if we are to expect our allies to come to our assistance at times of trouble. Whose responsibility would it be, if not Australia's, to do these things? To the present time - this has been indicated in the report from the Public Works Committee - naval support facilities have been established on the eastern coast of Australia. There is none in the West. The project Cockburn Sound will make use of a natural harbour which has a tremendous capacity. Cockburn Sound is a very good site indeed. 
The points that have been put to the Committee during its investigation are very important. The nature of the development of the causeway itself is important. We have had on the west coast of Australia, as have many other parts of this nation, movements of sand. Over the generations, it has moved from north to south and south to north. The movement varies at different times of the year. It is important, as has been discovered in building these sorts of facilities on our coasts, that nature's process be taken note of. No doubt, the engineers who are responsible for this project have taken surveys of sand movement and know what they are doing. I sincerely hope that they have taken everything into account because we have seen instances on many occasions throughout the world where harbours have been built or levels have been changed to some extent and silting up processes have occurred. The Garden Island section of Cockburn Sound, because of its depth, is a natural harbour. On the eastern side of Cockburn Sound is not to be found the depth that there is on the western side of the Sound. With the aid of a couple of barges, a large ship can be moved into the Island itself because of the depth of water that is available. That is why it is important to retain present conditions so that the harbour does not silt up. 
One of the main points that I wish to make - and 1 know that time is short today - is in relation to the approach to this project. By 'approach' I mean the method of approach either by approach road or approach rail, whichever may be used. Naturally, access must be provided to a project of this nature. I would say to the Government and to those responsible for this work that the access to this project should be a part of the contract. The material to build this causeway has to come through a built up area which is known as Rockingham and Safety Bay. It can come through this area only. Therefore, before the project is commenced, I would suggest that the engineers and those responsible for this project build the access road first. That is my hope. If this is nol done, the present roads will be ruined and the project and those concerned with it will become very unpopular with local people. 
During the planning of this project, which started many years ago, by the Fremantle Port Authority which has a long term interest in it with the State Government - the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  and the Government are well and truly aware of that fact - room was left for access to be provided to this area. Those associated with the design of this development originally in Western Australia hoped that at some future time a naval base would be developed in the area. No doubt the relevant maps have been made available to the Committee although no mention has been made of this point in the report as far as I can see. No doubt these maps were made available to the Department of Works and possibly to the Minister also. Here is provision for access. 
Here is an area that has been left to make room to get to this project. The plea that I am making today to the engineers is not to go ahead with the project until the access has been developed. It has to be developed. 
Who is responsible is another matter. I am not arguing as to whether the responsibility rests with the State or the Commonwealth, or whether it is a joint responsibility. What is important is that to cater for the tonnages of material that it will be necessary to use as well as the activity involved in getting personnel and machinery to the area access must be provided. 1 would hate to see the development of this area go ahead without the provision of suitable access into the area itself. It would be difficult but for the fact that planning was undertaken many years ago for this purpose and room was left for access to be provided. Whether or not this point has been taken into consideration, I do not know. I do make the plea that, if this has not been done, this matter should be looked at by the Government and personnel interested in the project so that the area which has been left available for this purpose may be developed to provide access to this project. ft is a great pleasure for me to be able to support this project today. In Cockburn Sound, I look forward to the gradual development that will take place in this area of the many facilities that are required to back up a naval base of this description. Some of these have been built; some are being built. We have seen development taking place in the area, lt is not many years ago that there was practically nothing in the way of industry in Kwinana and Cockburn Sound generally. Today the area is a complex of steel works and other support industries. They have come to this area, which is growing extremely rapidly. Viewed as a long term venture I believe that this naval base project with the other development that is going on and will continue to take place and together with the tremendous advantages of the harbour, will be a tremendous success. Western Australia will welcome this project greatly. 
In directing a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry I refer to the 25.50 United States cents duty which the American Administration levies against Australian wool of 44s and finer. Is it a fact that efforts were made in the Kennedy Round trade negotiations to reduce the duty on raw wool? If so will the Minister give the details of proposals put to the USA and also the nature of reciprocal concessions offered during the negotiations? Will he also initiate discussions with the United States with a view to having this tariff removed? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I think most honourable members would do well to look at the reasons why this legislation was originally introduced on 12th April 1962 and also the results that have been obtained because of its introduction. Another matter of importance is the cost to the community which I propose to set out but not in too great detail. When introducing this Bill in 1962 the then Treasurer said: 
In proposing the allowance the Government aims to encourage greater investment- 
I would like honourable members to take note of the words 'greater investment' -  in our manufacturing industries and thus ensure, in both the short and the long term, a greater volume of both output and employment. 
I believe that the situation of greater investment, a greater volume of output and greater employment in the manufacturing industry was important in 1962. 1 believe that this condition still prevails. There is no doubt in my mind that any manufacturer who has purchased a new piece of equipment will need in the first year of business some financial assistance. The original Bill gave the manufacturer that much needed assistance, so much so that the primary production section of industry in 1963 used the same tax allowance. It was not an allowance of 20 per cent. The allowance granted was 40 per cent in the year of purchase. I believe that to assist this country to grow even greater this sort of assistance to industry across the board is a useful adjunct, particularly to manufacturing and the primary industry section of industry. 
In the intervening years since 1962 production has, of course, increased together with employment. We have seen tremendous increases in the mining industry itself. Above all there has been a fantastic increase in the speculative aspects of finance throughout this country. The manufacturing industry has shown a slow but continuous growth compared to the mining industries which have been spectacular and the speculative approach by most people in Australia to the use of dollars and cents. This measure was at that time an ideal method of encouraging production and investment in the manufacturing industry I contest the right of the Government ro cut off the subsidy at the drop of a hat. All honourable members know that huge concerns such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which has been mentioned several times during this debate, do not plan for tomorrow or for the next year but that their budgetary arrangements are made 10 or 20 years ahead. I have no doubt that the larger and even the smaller companies in Australia have used this plan of investment assistance given by this Government in their future budget considerations. In those days all honourable members on the Government side and on the Opposition side were complaining about the importation of all types of equipment and all types of goods into Australia. It was decided to grant this assistance to the manufacturing industry so that it could compete with imports from overseas and this it has done to a remarkable extent. I think that in presenting the Bill the Treasurer said that the manufacturing industry will increase by 20 per cent this year. This is a wonderful thing for Australia. 
When this legislation was introduced in 1962 the real intention was for the manufacturing industry to compete for the export market which was available to manufacturers throughout the world. At that time we were almost entirely dependent on primary production. The Government made a wise decision in deciding that other sectors of productivity should be set up so that they could compete on the export market and this is what the manufacturing industry has done. I hope to be able to give a few figures on this shortly. In those days we were looking at the overseas markets and we still ought to be. In those days we were endeavouring to strengthen our overseas balance of payments. We had many debates in this Parliament about our balance of payments but we never hear about it now because our balance of payments is in such a strong position. In those days we were looking for more employment. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that in 1962 we had an unemployment total of 150,000. I think his figures are wrong. 1 think the figure was 101,000. But nevertheless we were endeavouring to make certain that men in this country who wanted work could get work and that is what this type of legislation did for the manufacturing industry. So we gave this incentive on plant and also on complex equipment associated with the manufacturing industry. I want to know what is involved in terms of revenue so far as the forgone revenue to the Treasury is concerned and the Budget papers give a clear indication of the forgone revenue. If one looks at the Budget speech of 1969 one will see that the total concessions were $177m. That is shown on pages 61 and 62 of the pamphlet copy. That is for all categories of revenue forgone by the Treasury, but of this $177m only $46.5m or 25 per cent of the total went to the manufacturing industry. For the work that manufacturing industry has done throughout Australia and the solid base it has set since 1962 I say that $46.5m in the year 1968-69 is a small price to pay. Included in these forgone revenue figures were special assistance to primary industry, a special rate of reduction used on plant and research for scientific concerns and the like and certain allowances for mining enterprises, etc. The comments in the Budget papers gave me, and certainly gave manufacturing industry in this country, a feeling that this sort of legislation would be retained for many years to come. On page 63 it was stated: 
In the light of the rapid expansion that is occurring and is in prospect in the mining and petroleum exploration and production industries, it seems certain that there will be increases in the cost of the various income tax concessions which these industries enjoy. 
Honourable members should note that there is no mention of the manufacturing industry. The comment continues: 
In particular, as the income, from production of Australian petroleum grows, there will be an increasing cost to revenue of the special allowances permitted for petroleum-producing enterprises. 
That comment was taken from the Budget papers of 1969-70 and referred to the taxation concessions for the previous year. Because of it manufacturers felt certain they could plan ahead and obtain this tax concession for years ahead. It is interesting to note in the Budget Speech delivered by the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  last year the revenue forgone, assessed on the same basis as in the previous year, was no less than S282m. In 1969 it was $177m. In other words, the increase forgone by the Treasury between 1969 and 1970 was $1 05m. Did it go to the manufacturing industry? Of course it did not because in the first year I mentioned $46.5m was allowed to manufacturing in this form of concession and this was raised to $55m in the following year. In other words, the increase between 1968-69 and between 1969-70 was $8.5m and not the S105m which I have mentioned. In other words, I am suggesting that the Government should had had a look, and should continue to have a look, at those areas where these tax concessions are granted to industries across the board and not pinpoint one section of industry which is the greatest user of labour in Australia and which has increased its ability to export at a far greater rate than any other industry except the mining industry. 
The 1970 Budget Speech contains some interesting comments. It states that the information given did not include the average provisions applied to the income of primary producers. It also excluded the drought bonds scheme which was commenced in 1969-70. Looking at my calculations I would think that some $70m has been forgone by the Treasury for this purpose. I ask again: Why has the manufacturing industry been singled out for this cancellation of assistance? In fact, the increase in investment  in  new plant for the manufacturing industry has, on my figures, gone up 12 per cent in the last 12 months whereas the increase in the mining section is 54 per cent. In other words, there is not the tremendous investment in the manufacturing industry that there ought to be for the good that it does for Australia and Australian employment because there have been better areas for investment and speculation. There has been a greater investment in large blocks of buildings in the various cities and one could not measure to what extent money has been spent on these large insurance and bank buildings and the like. Of the 3 growth areas manufacturing has had the least growth but has been continuous and will remain a continuing factor in the economy for, I hope, as long as I am on this earth. This is an area where labour employed in factories such as Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd and the Colonial Sugar Refinery hopes that it will have a permanent job with these companies. 
It always amazes me when I hear members of the Opposition talk about employment. They seem to feel that the worker is always antagonistic towards the boss or manager but the worker knows that the manager is a worker himself; he just has a different situation in the organisation. The worker knows that the future of himself and his family is invariably tied up with the company for which he works. There is a far better esprit de corps between the worker and management today than most Opposition members would have us believe. I think the good conditions so far as manufacturing is concerned will continue for years provided the unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission do not decide that the workers must get a little more of the cake. The cake is so big for splitting amongst investors, reinvestment in the company itself and the workers and I believe that the workers have reached the peak of their part of the cake in the manufacturing industry. 
Since the legislation was introduced in 1962 the volume of output in the manufacturing industry has increased by 62 per cent or an average rate of 6 per cent a year. This is not magnificent, but it is steady and continuous. It is a steady growth and will be maintained for a number of years. 1 also looked at some figures concerning what we are currently importing. The figures for 1969-70 are quite startling. In the plant and machinery area a total of $710m worth of equipment was imported during 1969-70. To supply this area would be a wonderful opportunity for manufacturing industry to continue the growth that I have talked about. Electrical goods valued at $233m were imported and to supply this area would give the manufacturing industry in Australia a real opportunity to do something. Another area is that of employment. I believe that the Government is worried that employment is at a more or less overfull situation. I. do not have those feelings so far as the manufacturing industry is concerned. 
I believe there are too many employees in government service - Commonwealth, State and municipal- but I do not believe that the increase in employment in the manufacturing industry is startling although it also is continuous. Employment in the manufacturing industry has increased from 1,160,000 in 1962 to 1,377,000 now, a total increase of 25 per cent in the intervening 8 years. It is the manufacturing industry that uses the school leavers and the new settlers, the ones who have not the qualifications to take high jobs in industry and in commerce. We have left it to the manufacturing industry to use these people and I believe, although the Minister said that he has suspended this form of tax concession to the manufacturing industry, that he has cancelled it. I use the word 'cancelled' because this legislation does cancel that assistance to industry. I will not say I oppose the Bill because I am a voice in the wilderness. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Nobody in this House or in Australia would, I think, argue against the importance of water conservation and water storage generally. Water is the basis of life itself. It is the basis of all industry, both primary and secondary, and obviously a country has to develop its water resources if it is to survive. But the way this is done is quite a different question having regard to a number of things such as the size of the country, its Constitution and who in fact has the right to do certain things. This is what this motion is really all about. The motion states amongst other things:  . . by establishing by the Commonwealth. . . . 
Quite obviously this would not be possible under the Constitution. The motion goes on: 
. to carry out in association with the States. . . . 
As I read this it means that the Commonwealth is to establish a certain authority regardless of what the States may think. I would argue strongly against such a proposal as the States have certain rights and they are certainly much closer to the problems associated with the development of this country than is the Commonwealth and they must be taken into consideration. In my opinion the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  did not deal with this motion at all. He seemed to be more interested in his own electorate and in something to do with the Dartmouth and Chowilla dams so there is little of his contribution which needs to be answered. But I think the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - I do not think I am misquoting him - and also the honourable member for Riverina did mention that our engineers - I think they were referring to the engineers associated with the Snowy Mountains Authority - were engaged in various projects overseas. If I heard them correctly they suggested that these engineers would be better employed in Australia. 
Let us look at this firstly on an international basis. Australia is a very lucky country. One has only to travel a little in other parts of the world to appreciate this. If one has been to some of the projects on which Australian engineers are working in various parts of the world and seen the job of work they are doing together with many engineers from many other countries I do not think anybody would begrudge the work they are doing. When one considers the circumstances under which the people of these countries live with absolutely none of the amenities that Australian people are used to in every-day life, one must admit that these engineers are doing a tremendous job and it is reasonable that these engineers, operating under the auspices of the Australian Government and other governments, should in fact be doing this work. From what I have seen I do not begrudge for one moment any assistance in upgrading the standard of living of these people. But this question of how we develop our water resources is a very important one. It is fairly obvious in looking at the overall pattern that our main water supply is in the northern section; right across the top as we call it. Most of the speeches that have been made up to this point in the debate have dealt mainly with projects that could be or have been carried out on the eastern side of the continent but I think it is obvious that if Australia is to be developed correctly and as we would like to see it developed water will have to be taken from the north and utilised in the south. I do not suggest that we should take all of it, but there is far too much in the north anyway. 
As I see it this question is of paramount importance to my own State of Western Australia where there is obviously a shortage of water in the south and more will have to come from the north. The question that then arises is from where in the north? This is an important point as far as the State is concerned. I would like to use an example which we have seen in the south because it was one of the earliest schemes in the Commonwealth. It was known as the Kalgoorlie scheme. Through this scheme, which was designed by that great engineer, C. Y. O'Connor, water was taken from the coastal area  300  miles inland to Kalgoorlie. In those days, of course, any chap who said that this could be done was regarded as quite crazy and this is the way the Press and everyone else at that time regarded him. But when one looks at this project and the results it has achieved one should remember the economists who say that schemes of this sort are right or not right. A few years ago everybody was suggesting that the goldfields would die, the population would disappear and the scheme would be of no value, yet we have the situation today where, with the boom in nickel and other minerals, an extension of this scheme will be required. So great foresight was shown in  1901  when moves in this direction first started. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise me whether all Slates have agreed to the Commonwealth's $100m rural reconstruction scheme? In view of the vital importance of the scheme to the rural economy will the Minister give some indication as to when funds will be available to the respective Slate governments? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the serious financial situation developing in local government? Have State Government representatives approached the Commonwealth to obtain assistance for this very  important form of government? If so, what was the result of such representation? 
Order! I ask the honourable member for Sturt to withdraw that word. 
I can tell the House that only a few days before the last election the person who represented the electorate of Sturt had eviction orders served on pensioners occupying homes that had been provided for them. These eviction notices were served on them by local policemen. Yet the honourable member for Angus says that we should stand up in this House and do the talking while he, as a member of the Government, has been doing the acting. Let me mention one other matter, with which I will deal more fully in this House on a later occasion. 1 know of cases of aged people who have been required to sign contracts giving them life tenancy of these homes for a small maintenance fee and who have then had these documents torn up before their very eyes. The undertakings given to these people have not been in any way honoured by certain previous members of this House. I have written letters to the Minister about this matter asking questions about people who might be considered as eligible within the meaning of the legislation. I have not received any direct reply to my questions. Yet we are expected to stand in this House and not to criticise the Government. 
Honourable members opposite have no concept of the difficulties they have created in their stupid blundering endeavours to solve, in their own muddled way, the problems that they themselves have created. Let me refer again to the remarks by the honourable member for Angus. The Government which he supports is a capitalistorientated government, a big business government. If we look along the front Government bench and look around the members of the Liberal-Country Party coalition we see a number of multi-millionaires. That is whom honourable members opposite represent. They represent no other interest than that. They have used the pensioners and social welfare purely and simply as a political football. 
We had the situation in this House the other week of a Prime Minister, newly elected by 30-odd people of this country, stand at the dispatch box, mark you, and fumble his speech in the time that he was allowed by the forms of the House. He was granted an extension of time through the courtesy of the Opposition and in the last 4 minutes of his speech he announced a 50c increase in pensions. The Minister for 
Social Services went on television that night, and what did he have to say? lt should be remembered that members of his staff were hastening to the Prime Minister's Department to be properly informed about the increases that were to apply. In addition, while he was on television he was laughing and saying that the New Prime Minister had to make his mark so he gave the pensioners 50c. What absolute and utter damned hypocrisy that is. It was the custom in days of old when royalty ascended the throne of command that a few pence be thrown to the poor. Here we had a new Prime Minister granting a 50c increase, and that was the impression of his action gained by most of the public who saw the television programme. Members of the Cabinet did not have enough common sense to recognise that the words 50c' were dirty words so far as the pensioners were concerned. 
Now let me tell this House, in the short time remaining to me, what the Australian Labor Party is proposing and has been proposing for some considerable time in regard to this very vital area. I will preface my remarks by quoting for the benefit and knowledge of the honourable member for Angas Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights. It reads: 
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care, and necessary social services and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age, and other lack of livelihood beyond his control. 
Our purpose is nothing less than the abolition of the poverty that exists in the midst of plenty and the provision of at least a guaranteed income below which no member of the community need fall. This is an objective well within our means once we have a government with a mandate to achieve it and with the will to achieve it. We are also in a position to implement Article 25. 
In the 1930s poverty and unemployment were mass afflictions which the Government of the time confessed it was unable to remove. Since then social service activities have made high unemployment and a low standard of living unacceptable. However, no-one should underestimate the widespread poverty and the continuing social insecurity which still remain within the current social service provisions. The Combined Pensioners Association has attested constantly to the inadequacy of existing provisions for those who through infirmity, ill fortune or old age have been forced to rely for extended periods on the benefits of our so-called welfare state. It is this defenceless minority who need the immediate help of a Labor government. We must, and we can, by a new approach to social services, ensure that they never slip back to the shameful conditions of the last decade. The emphasis must be on active promotion of social wealth as a measure of the nation's prosperity rather than meek acquiescence in the damaging double standards of private affluence and public squalor, which is the Liberal-Country Party's attitude. It is not only a question of high finance and financiers, not even only of schools, hospitals, transport systems, production and wages; it is a question of the whole quality of life and of society and this is measured by the provisions made for the weakest members of that society. 
Money must be spent to accomplish most social service functions. But money alone will not allay the loneliness of the old, reform the criminal, cure the sick mind, nurse the ill, mend the broken family or encourage the invalid back to work. Special security payments will have to be complemented and augmented through counselling services, rehabilitation facilities and other specific social services in order to make them as effective as possible. Although the goals and principles of Labor's social welfare policy have been set out, the necessary administrative flexibility will only be possible if all involved recognised that the content of social welfare is the process of interaction of all involved. The success of Labor's approach to planning for the future in this field will depend on the willingness of both social security and social service agencies to work together for the social and political goals involved, and on the co-operation achieved among social, medical, vocational and other members of the welfare establishment. 
If anything can be predicted about the next 2 decades it is that the problems of poverty will be replaced with the soul destruction of affluence. We should remember that this is happening in another country at this moment. The real danger facing the Australia of the future is that we could retain the post-depression neurosis as the basis for our thinking about welfare. This would mean accepting the Liberal laissez-faire approach of ad hoc planning, based on what little finance was left after defence, dairies and debt payments had been met. It is essential for Labor to be aware of the rationalisations behind this relegation of welfare to the bottom of the priority list. Only by comparing the principles behind Liberal administration with those set out in 'Let's Be Human' can we be sure that Labor avoids a piecemeal reply to tired and irresponsible excuses proposed by conservatives such as the people who sit opposite to us in this chamber. 
For example, it is often argued that the development of adequate welfare programmes would reduce the will to work or reduce the competitive struggle which keeps society going. This view suggests that if conditions are made to meet people's needs then life will become so soft that the nation will lose its backbone. Labor unequivocally rejects .this notion. If a man were offered all he wanted on the condition that he did not do a thing for himself, does anyone really believe that he could accept it for more than a very short period? Work is not simply a means of bringing in an income. .It also provides an opportunity to meet other people and gives life some variety. One need only look at those countries which have highly developed welfare- services - such as Canada and Scandanavia - to see that productivity continues to remain high, and improves as the standard of living improves. The studies of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which comprises European nations, Canada and the United States of America, have demonstrated this point conclusively. In fact, the OECD has published books on how to develop programmes for the improvement of social amenities as a necessary condition for economic growth in depressed areas of the member countries. Further proof can be obtained from the report of Australia's Immigration Planning Council which is investigating immigration programmes for the period 1968-73. The IPC found that our social services were so poor - and the Minister should mark this - that we could not attract immigrants from the countries covered by the OECD. 
Labor is aware that the wrong questions have been asked about welfare expenditure over the post-war period. The cry: Where's the money coming from?' must be replaced with: 'How can we get value for our current money and reduce the drain on the taxpayer?'. The needlessly expensive consequences of inadequate social welfare provision can be well illustrated by considering the immediate cost of the breakdown of a single large family. If the father in a family of  7  is gaoled and the children are placed in institutions the cost to the Stale within 6 months will be S200 a week, and this is without accounting for lost production. By comparison, if the man can be paroled it may cost three or four hours of a parole officer's lime each week at a cost of about $30, including all administrative costs. A society which does not recognise the price of inadequate programmes finds that costs soon get beyond control in terms of delinquency and crime, mental breakdown and absenteeism. The result is the reverse of the pattern predicted by the knockers of welfare programming. It is the natural consequence of their refusal to accept the need for adequate social research as the basis of planning. 
The most important item of the welfare programme must therefore be the development of a new spirit in this country - a spirit of human fellowship which will create a collective national effort for better conditions for all members of the community. The need for joint social action to achieve common objectives in Australia has never been more urgent than al the present lime. Natural resources are unevenly spread and in many cases barely developed, inferior education, inadequate housing and incomplete health services range in stark contrast alongside the fruits of privileged private schemes. 
The main argument likely to be advanced against the programme outlined will be directed towards the possible cost. It must be pointed out that, although the readily visible cost of the social policy advocated may appear substantial, the balancing credit entries on the national ledger may be less obvious though they will be no less real. These credit notes will express themselves in the improved social and physical health of the population and in the reduction of wastefulness of human resources with ils resultant loss in productivity. They are constructive and necessary measures to advance, support and sustain the total society and are not a drain on the nation's resources. Above all, they will help us retain our national identity of concern for the underdog in which an essential part of the fair go outlook is that each individual is also' responsible for his mate. 
In determining the appropriate content for the social welfare programme one of the greatest difficulties is to decide how much emphasis should be placed on meeting the needs of individuals and families in trouble and how much to place on overall schemes which improve the standard of living of the whole community. William Beveridge's famous assertion was that want is only one of the 5 giants on the road of reconstruction and in some ways the easiest to attack. The others are disease and ignorance - as is now in evidence by the continual chatter on the other side of the House - as well as squalor and idleness. His assertion leaves us with the problem of determining how to present a programme which is relatively complete and essentially integrated. Recognition of the need to protect the individual from the 5 giants must also include awareness of the danger of tearing him to pieces when help is provided, unless the integration of services is built into the programme. 
My time is drawing lo a close, but before I resume my seat I want to draw attention to the complete apathy or, perhaps, unawareness of the Government of the future of the workers of this country.. The Government wonders why the workers are worried today, but all it does is heap criticism on Bob Hawke. If we move from a labour oriented industry to a capital oriented society in a few years we will be in bother in this country. The Government has not looked at this aspect. If, for example, General Motors-Holden's Ltd and the others in the motor body industry were to start a slight trend towards a capital oriented industry tomorrow tens of thousands of people would be out of work, but the Government has not breathed a word about this mutter in this House. It has not breathed a word about reconstruction, retraining and re-education. You name it and the Opposition can attack the Govern ment for not having carried it out. The Government has no conception of what is likely to occur. This is quite obvious from the way in which it deals with matters in this House. I wish to sound a warning before resuming my seat. I believe that there will have to be a change of thinking in the Western world. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. When is it proposed to introduce legislation to make available the $100m for rural reconstruction? If this legislation is delayed will money be made available to the States prior to the passing of such legislation? 
Firstly, I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on his maiden speech earlier this evening. I think it was an excellent speech. 1 wish him every luck in this House in future years. We have just listened to a speech by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  It was a remarkable speech. He suggested that there was no right to free speech in Australia. I do not think that I am misquoting him. He also referred to some powers in the American Congress and to certain things which the Congress is not permitted to do in relation to peaceful assembly. This is exactly what we are talking about. There is room for, and there is certainly a right to, free speech in Australia and that is precisely what we want to maintain in Australia - the right to peaceful assembly and to free speech. This is something which is very dear to any democratic country. In fact, in my opinion it is the basis of the democratic system and the process of law as we know it in Australia today, and we certainly want to maintain the position which has existed over the years. 
But as a system changes, as a country grows, as population increases and as problems become a little more complex, obviously it is the duty of this Parliament and of other parliaments within the nation to update their legislation in order to deal with the changing circumstances. The whole process of law is something which we must at all times continue to observe, if we want freedom and a democratic system in this country. Certain responsibilities exist in various areas. It is the responsibility of the Government, or of an individual member for that matter, to bring before this Parliament certain Bills relating to the law of this country. This is the assembly in which to debate a particular Bill which eventually becomes an Act. From that time onwards it is the responsi bility of the courts of the land to protect the interest of the people, and it is important to understand that fact. People are protected not only by the Parliament but also by the law itself. We must not forget that fact when we are referring to the process of law in Australia. The Parliament itself does not carry out the law; that is the job of the courts. So the Parliament has a job to do, and the courts and the various other law institutions have a job to do. 
This process of law maintains for the Australian people the right to free assembly and free speech in certain circumstances. But if that right interferes with the processes of the law or with other people in ways which are set out in this Bill, then the law must be there to take charge of the situation. As I see this Bill, there is a degree of responsibility on all sections of the community. There is a degree of responsibility within this Parliament, within the courts and with the people. Regardless of whether people are university students or come from other sectors of the Australian community, they have a responsibility to uphold the law. If we do not accept this responsibility we will have a great deal of trouble in Australia. I believe that the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  had this in mind when he introduced this legislation. He wanted to bring the legislation up to date so that it could deal with the present situation. 
In more recent times we in Australia have seen certain assemblies which in my opinion have not been in the interests of Australians. We have seen the destruction of property in Australia. Surely the right to free speech and assembly does not include the right to destroy somebody else's property. Surely if we are to live under a democratic system we should have a law which will protect people's property. Is it reasonable to suggest that we should not have a process of law which will deal with a situation in which there is definite destruction of property? If I heard him correctly - and I think I did - the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was speaking earlier today, said that we cannot expect young people to respect any particular law with which they do not agree. Under a democratic system we will 
In recent years we have seen demonstrations not only in Australia but in many other countries. Demonstrations are taking place not only in Japan, America and Australia but all around the world. They are taking place in universities and in various other institutions. I agree that there should be demonstrations of a certain type, but where there are demonstrations which destroy property and affect the lives of people, even to the extent where people are seriously injured, surely we must protect the people and their property. Would the Opposition suggest that the Parliament should not introduce legislation which is designed to protect people and property in the circumstances existing in Australia today? This is precisely what the Bill seeks to do. Physical violence to another person is also covered in this Bill. Surely a person is entitled to protection against this sort of thing happening to him in a street, in his own home or office or in any other place in Australia. The Government will certainly do everything to maintain the rights of individuals to go about their business unmolested. 
I would like to say a few words about the complicated laws which exist in Australia at present and the difficulties encountered by individuals in endeavouring to understand them and exercise ' their own rights. People have so far been able to understand the law to a degree, but it is today getting somewhat more complicated. As I have already pointed out, our legal system has been designed to protect the people. I appreciate that there are people with legal training who can go into the courts and protect the interests of their clients in a legal action, but the system is getting out of hand somewhat inasmuch as the expense of undertaking legal action is getting beyond the means of certain indi-  and Property) Bill 
I believe that a section of the community which has a big responsibility for law and order as well as many other events which occur in Australia today is the Press. There are many cases of young people getting mixed up in various acts of destruction. I do not know why they get involved, but I believe that they like to receive Press publicity. I believe that the members ' of the Press have a big responsibility in relation to these 'matters. If they continue to highlight the activities of certain people at certain times they only encourage these people to do it again. I believe that the mass media in Australia and, for that matter, the' rest of the world have some responsibility for what happens in this regard. 
I believe that the Bill which is before the House this evening is an important piece of legislation. We .value our democratic system in Australia! I believe that it is the Government's .responsibility to ensure that our democratic, system is maintained. This legislation will assist in that regard. I appreciate that differences of opinion are often expressed in this House between the Government and the Opposition as to the best method of maintaining our democratic system.', However, is that not democracy? This, happens in every Parliament in the world. It is the majority view which determines the system of democracy which will prevail ; and it is the 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I ask the Minister for Repatriation to withdraw the offending remarks. 
Assertions about the southward thrust, with no evidence, are constantly being made. There has been no preparation of a navy to do it, no preparation of a merchant marine. I do not think there are any magical results from recognition or nonrecognition of China. All that is needed is a simple and sensible recognition of a fact. The Government is now asserting, without any hope of using it as an ideological weapon to change the facts on the mainland of China, that the Government on Taiwan is the Government of China. This is simply not a fact. Entry of China to the United Nations will not be determined by our recognition or by American recognition, just as Communist China has never got into the United Nations on British recognition. This issue will be determined only by a majority in the United Nations and that is a separate issue. The question of recognition is only a matter of trying to have a contact with China as one step towards the development of a sane world. 
 The matter of public importance raised by the Opposition consists of exactly 5 words - Doctors' fees and medical benefits'. To speak only in terms of fees and medical benefits when dealing with this great area is to ignore the main issue if any government, regardless of where it may be, concentrated solely on the financial aspects of medical health and forgot the real personal and social aspects, I believe that it would be heading for trouble. I listened quite carefully to the two speakers from the Opposition side of the House on this matter. They almost entirely - and this certainly applies to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  - spoke about the fees related to medical health, doctors fees and so on. This is not to say that fees in respect of medical health and doctors are unimportant - they are important. But even more important is the doctor-patient relationship. If we destroy this, as has almost been done in some other countries, and endeavour to establish socialised medical and hospital benefit schemes, we destroy the whole of the medical scheme of a country. That is why I believe that such a :relationship is so very important. 
The Government has a responsibility to -participate in any medical health scheme in this country. But up to this point it has been only participation so far as the Gov- ernment is concerned. If the Government were to take over and establish a socialised scheme and thereby destroy the individual approach which is so extremely important it could destroy the relationship between the doctor and the patient. Heaven forbid the day when that happens in this country. This always has been uppermost in my :mind because I believe that even now in some cases we are moving into this area. For various reasons certain of our hospitals are perhaps overcrowded. In many cases doctors do not have time to' give this personal attention. For instance, when, there are road accidents or when there is an influx of patients, such cases have to be dealt with in a hurry. At these times the workload on doctors is tremendous and we lose to some extent the necessary doctorpatient relationship - we take away the time factor that is needed to develop the relationship between the patient and the doctor. 
There are, of course, many things that one could mention about this subject. However, in my opinion the doctor-patient relationship is the most important. I believe that we must never lose sight of this and talk solely about the economics of the matter. Patients must feel that they belong and are not just a part of a pushbutton machine age. They must feel that they belong to someone when they are in a hospital to be treated. An interest must be taken in them. There are other areas of medical services which concern me to some extent. One is the variation in doctors fees between the States. Perhaps as time goes by the position may be rectified by those concerned. Discussions on this matter take place from time to time. Indeed, I understand that such a discussion is taking place today. The point was made by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  that when matters of public importance are brought forward from time to time - and this has been quite frequently in recent weeks - it is noticeable that they relate to issues which are being debated by the Government or the responsible authorities and others involved. Often, as has happened today, a matter of public importance has been brought before the House when negotiations are taking place. Of course, this is the wrong time for such a matter to be discussed in this Parliament. These matters should not be raised when negotiations are taking place. I hope that in future when delicate negotiations are being undertaken on various aspects by people who are interested, the Parliament will not be called upon to debate such matters at that time. 
I have mentioned - let me return to them to some extent - the facts of life in the field of health today in Australia. Numerous people are involved in this area. There are the patients and of course also the doctors. Doctors are extremely important and we must have plenty of them. Some areas of Australia simply do no have enough doctors and this is a problem. The benefit funds also are a part of the scheme. They are important too. Of course, both Federal and State governments have their areas of responsibility. Whilst these various sections work in conjunction with each other we are moving in the right direction. If they cease to work together and the main responsibility falls on the Government to administer all aspects of health through the public purse and by Act of Parliament, I fear that the health of the people will be in jeopardy. 
All through the ages doctors have been independent inasmuch as a doctor runs his own practice in his own way and treats his patients, with whom fae builds up a relationship, in his own way. It is well known that many doctors treat individual patients and their families for a lot less than the actual fee which may be charged. This is part of the relationship and the confidence that is built up between the patient and the doctor. If these things are changed by governments that very valuable relationship will be destroyed. Moving on further we have the hospitals and the nursing profession, which is a profession of its own. Those working in a hospital must be able to understand the patients. A hospital is not a machine on which buttons can be pressed. It is not a machine that can work from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. or from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is an institution that must work around the clock. Hospital officials must understand every minute of the day what is going on with the patients in that hospital. 
We should not discuss the subject of health only from the point of view of the funds and the benefits that are available from a government or anywhere else. There are personal relationships between the people concerned and these, above all, are important. The matter that has been raised today refers only to fees and benefits. It does not deal with what I think are the major health issues; it deals with only one area. I hope that this Government will never look at only one area when it is dealing with health matters, whether it be in negotiations with doctors or whether it be in negotiations with the States or anybody else. I hope that it will not exclude from its considerations the interests of the patients and the doctor's responsibility to his patients. I would expect a matter of public importance relating to health to cover a broad area. I sincerely hope that we maintain the situation which we find in Australia today, and I am sure that it will be maintained while this Government is in office. 
The matter of public importance brought before the House by the Australian Labor Party claims that the Government has taken no action in rural reconstruction to counter impending economic disaster in major rural sectors in Australia. Listening to honourable members opposite one might think that they had the answer to all our problems. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  indicated, for instance, that he could see little future for wool and that synthetics were a real danger. Perhaps a rural reconstruction scheme would be worthwhile but it is not the complete answer to our problems. It is important to remember that under the Constitution the Commonwealth can initiate talks with the States on a broad basis. The Commmonwealth has no power to operate within the States. It can and is, of course, supplying the necessary finance, as it did in the dairying scheme the proposals for which, I remind the House, were discussed for some 2 years before any agreement could be reached with the States. So the Commonwealth so. far as. this operation is concerned is very limited by constitutional considerations. 
The overall situation is that there has been a considerable increase in net debt in rural area. Nobody argues against this; we all know it. This has been brought about as I see it by 3 main events; firstly, the droughts which were across the country and which had tremendous repercussions; secondly, wheat quotas which also had repercussions; thirdly, wool prices. We were hit with these 3 events almost simultaneously. The rural industries were not in a position to withstand these events. 
The honourable member for Dawson asks about costs. Certainly costs are a factor but the Government has reduced costs. Two years ago the figure was 1.9 per cent; for the last full year it was something less than 1 per cent. Sure costs are a factor but they are not the real problem. The real problem is a prices problem, an income problem for farmers over the years which has been brought about by the 3 events I have mentioned. To illustrate this in real terms I refer to the latest figures of the Reserve Bank published in its 'Statistical Bulletin' in February 1971. These are about the latest figures we have. The base for these figures is 100 on the consumer price index for the year 1952-53. In September 1970 food was 157 on the consumer price index. Wool was 49 in September 1970. It is worse at the moment. The average weekly earnings for all industries in the same month was 253.5. That indicates where wool was standing at that time. It is not in as good a position as that at the moment. 
This is the real problem in primary industries today where there are 100,000 wool growers, a lot of whom are mixed growers growing grains of some description as well as wool. We cannot take out of an industry such as this hundreds of millions of dollars over this period of time and not expect it to be in trouble. That is the situation today and that is the basis of our real problem. As I see it two things are needed if we are to assist farmers. We need a refinancing corporation and an insurance corporation. We have had some experience in setting up refinancing corporations. At the moment farmers have borrowings amounting to more than $2,000m. On the other side of the ledger deposits amounting to about $900,000 are held on behalf of farmers. 
What is required, and I have been saying this for some time, until the situation can be rectified is a stand still in capital repayments. The only way this can be done with this huge amount of money is by establishing a refinancing corporation. From my investigation, this can be done to a large extent within the present banking structure. It could be attached to the insurance corporation. But whatever we may do in the fields of reconstruction and refinancing and these other areas we may wish to get into, the basic problem is the price of wool. Nobody can convince me that on the world market today wool is not worth more money than it is bringing. It went up last week in Brisbane and Melbourne by about  2)  per cent These are the real problems. If we study the economics of the overall situation we will see that all our efforts should be made in this area. I firmly believe that all the reconstruction programmes in the world will not work unless there is a reasonable return to the farmer. The main downfall here is in relation to wool. Under the quota system we have a reasonable return from wheat because we have legislation which gives certain guarantees to wheat growers. In fact, the legislation brought down some 2 years ago for the ensuing 5 years guarantees to growers something like $2,000m during that period. It is reasonable to suggest that wheat growers will get more than this over a period. 
But the real problem is the price of wool. It is my belief that this is the area in which we should be concentrating. We should be expecting and asking a greater price for wool before it moves out of this country. It would be better to put a reasonable price on wool before it leaves Australia. A reasonable price is certainly at least 10c or 12c higher than the average price in Australia today. If it is not sold immediately, that is nothing new in commerce. It is not new in relation to grain; it is not new in relation to any form of commerce. There are always surpluses. There is always a surplus of fuel. There is a great surplus of iron ore; there is a great surplus of practically every mineral. But this does not mean that those commodities are sold at give-away prices. If there is a slump in wool prices at this time it would be good economics for Austrlia to hold onto a parcel of her wool. The results of this would not only give a decent price to Australian growers but also give the Australian Wool Commission an opportunity to gather up parcels of wool and move in the world markets and sell on that basis. The Commission cannot operate on the shoestring; it must have huge quantities of wool before it can move into the world and sell. The Commission has to put itself into that situation. 
Why give our Wool away? Why send broke tens of thousands of growers of a commodity which has stood the test of time? lt will not stand the test of time unless we do what is done in every commercial walk of life where there is a good commodity to sell. We have to put a reasonable price on the commodity and go out in the world and sell it. The Australian Wheat Board has done this in recent years, in its early days it did not move out in the world but simply sent cables here and there. When the wheat growers of Australia moved into greater production the Australian Wheat Board moved out into the world and sold wheat in huge quantities, as it is doing today. The Australian Wool Commission must go out into the world and sell our wool for a reasonable price. If the entire wool clip were given to countries in the northern hemisphere to be put through the textile mills there, it would not alter one iota the price of the finished article coming out the other end. There is no relationship between the price of raw wool and the price of the finished article. In my book, this is the basic problem we should be discussing today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett) 

Order! This discussion is concluded. 
Order! I would point out to the honourable member that this Bill has a limited scope. It seeks appropriation of a limited amount of money over a certain period. As I see it there, has been a full scale debate on the Budget. I do not think this is the appropriate time for another full scale debate. 
The rights of occupancy of the Air Force base, Butterworth, were transferred by the United Kingdom authorities to the Malaysian Government on and from 1st April 1970. Included in the transfer were capital works and equipment which according to departmental records, had cost Australia in excess of $12,300,000. 
What concerns me is that today the Parliament is being asked for more money for defence purposes and yet the Government has not accounted to the Australian people and to this House for $20m. It has not given one word of explanation of what has happened to that money. I believe that the Auditor-General should be required to investigate the circumstances in which such a massive amount of the Australian taxpayers money was not satisfactorily protected and certainly was not accounted for. They are the only observations I want to make. It is vital that the Government should be required to present a statement to this House on what has happened to past investment which have cost the Australian taxpayer $20m before the Parliament proceeds to allow further funds for defence purposes. 
Order! There is no point of order. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
This has been a most remarkable debate. Hie matter of public importance before the House relates to: 
The rise in hospital fees and the decline in Commonwealth assistance to hospitals and their patients. 
During the debate the Labor Party has moved from the word 'assistance' to what might be termed a takeover, the nationalisation of hospitals. This was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  If that is the intention, which it no doubt is, of the Opposition if ever it comes to power, it will have to spell out, not in a few words at the end of a speech but in an entire speech, what it means by the nationalisation of hospitals in this country. I firmly believe that the Australian people do not subscribe to the centralising of the affairs of this nation in Canberra. My experience is that the hospitals and many other enterprises in this country are better run by the States and the various organisations within them than they would be by a government in Canberra. This is a very significant step. It has never been stated by the Opposition in clearcut terms that I can remember that it intends to nationalise the hospital system. If it intends to nationalise hospitals in this country how much further does it intend to go in nationalising the various organisations in this country? Having gone this far, I would expect the Opposition in the near future to spell out in clear terms exactly what it means. It owes this not only to honourable members in this House but also to the people of Australia. I do not think I am wrong in saying that the Leader of the Opposition did leave his statement on this matter to the end of his speech today. He did not refer to it at the beginning. I understood the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to indicate during his speech that the Labor Party was not satisfied with the distribution of equipment, for instance, in Victoria. I understood him to indicate that he or his Party, if the opportunity arose, would direct the various hospitals in relation to this point. This is in relation to the establishment of a equipment and where it should be in a State hospital system. Of course, there would not be, under a nationalised hospital system, a State hospital system. It would simply be an Australian system. The Opposition must spell out in precise terms what it means to do. 
The motion relates to the actual costs incurred by hospitals today. We all know that these costs have risen. But nobody or no organisation within this country can avoid the increases in costs which will take place if there is a continual erosion of the economy. I am referring to inflation and the excessive rises in these areas. Over the last few months the Government has been endeavouring to do something about inflation. During question time this morning the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  was asked a question about the 35-hour week. The Minister indicated that the effect on the nation of a 35-hour week, if it were introduced, would be an increase in costs of between $2,000m and $3,000m, depending on which way it was done. These are the sorts of figures that must be looked at. 
Hospitals and other organisations cannot avoid the flow-on from these types of things. If major increases in wages occur which are beyond productivity then the hospitals cannot avoid the impact of them, nor can anybody else. I refer not only to the wages of hospital personnel but also to the flow-on from buildings, machinery and general requirements of a hospital for which the hospital has to foot the bill. Despite what the motion states, the Commonwealth has increased its contribution towards medical and hospital services. The Minister stated this earlier in the debate. No organisations in this country can avoid these additional costs if inflationary pressures are allowed to proceed. They are having a detrimental effect not only on the hospitals but also on many other sections of the community. 
The motion also refers to assistance to hospitals and their patients. To take an example, quite recently the Commonwealth has taken over the area of medical costs for the low income earner. The Leader of the Opposition in commenting on this point said that the Commonwealth has not assisted those who can least afford it. This is not correct. A year or two ago subsidised health insurance was introduced and this takes care of those people who have an income, I think, not exceeding $42.50. 
There is a subsidy for people with incomes from $42.50 up to $46.50. As I understand it, for those people earning less than $42.50 the complete insurance is paid, and there is a sliding scale from there on. The Government has assisted these people in no uncertain fashion. I hope that I have not misquoted the Leader of the Opposition on this point. People on low incomes are being taken care of. The Government has helped in many areas of the hospital and medical situation. The increased costs are a great worry to this country. Hospitals are being caught up in them, but I do not believe that the nationalisation of hospitals in this country will be the answer to the problem. Hospitals are State instrumentalities. They are a State responsibility and that is where they should stay. 
Negotiations have always been carried out between the Commonwealth and the 
States on these and many other issues in relation to financing of hospitals and assistance to the States in many areas. Over the last few years the Commonwealth has assisted greatly in health matters. Negotiations with the States will no doubt proceed. I suggest that the Opposition should outline completely what it means to do. The term 'hospitals' is a very broad one. There are lots of hospitals under different management in this country. The Opposition, having gone this far, should spell out to the Australian people all the details of its statement. I think that is a fair request. 
The immediate question is, 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question'. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; of the contrary 'no'.I think the 'ayes' have it? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Messages from Governor-General recommending approprations announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

Order! I ask honourable members on the Opposition side to cease interjecting. 
China, if not yet a world power, is clearly concerned that her presence should be felt throughout the world as a power of consequence, as a revolutionary leader, and as a potential trading partner, and in the exercise of her diplomacy against Russia strategically, against Taiwan in undercutting its voting strength in the United Nations and against India, its Asian neighbour, with which it has its longest boundary. All her interests direct attention to the Indian Ocean.  Her  mountainous west which historically protected the central kingdom now limits the newly extrovert People's Republic and the balance of her population reinforces her communications pattern in making her look outward to the sea in terms of trade and travel. China's landward links with West Asia and East Europe would cross Russian territory and therefore create dependence on Russian terms. For China the Indian Ocean means cheapness, bulk transport and freedom of the seas. 
China has no interest in Russian domination of the Indian Ocean. Her presence in the Indian Ocean gives her another line of pressure on India. And her active interest in West Asia and East Africa depends on access by sea. We should bear that in mind. 
The scare diplomacy of China in the 1960s was expressed by Premier Chou En-lai in 1961 when he said that Africa was ripe for revolution. This concern is now being replaced by the long term diplomacy of a more settled China; of cooperation with friendly governments, irrespective of ideology, lt is apparent therefore that this scare diplomacy which emanated from China during the middle 1960s and in particular at the time of the cultural revolution is changing, which is not surprising because the cultural revolution was the greatest disaster China has faced, lt is my contention that China has a vital interest in ensuring that the Russians do not gain a dominant presence in the Indian Ocean and this is primarily the motivating factor in her relationships and the seeking of a detente as it would be with the Western world. 
A continuing British presence has been accepted in South East Asia in the form of a combined ANZUK force which is being established in Singapore and a 5- power consultative agreement on the defence of Singapore and Malaysia. This is a great step forward. It is, of course, an alliance which will not stop change but rather it will seek to delay or control change by ensuring that such change is by negotiation rather than by violence. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that mutton prices at Western Australian stock markets are around 3c to 4c per lb, and on occasions lower? Can the Minister say what overseas markets are available and what prices per lb are being received by mutton exporters from those markets, which would represent around 50 per cent of the Australian production? Is the Minister aware that there is a grave shortage of abattoir facilities in Western Australia, which has resulted in restricted buyer competition? As the shortage of funds seems to be one of the factors delaying the establishment of a new abattoir, will the Minister indicate whether Commonwealth Development Bank funds could be used to assist in establishing abattoir facilities? If these funds cannot be used, will the Minister indicate from what source the required capital might be made available? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry by referring to the $100m assistance to be made available for rural reconstruction. Is it a fact that $40m is to be made available in this current financial year? If so, how will this money be allocated between the States? What will be the position in the next 3 years in relation to the remainder of the Si 00m which it is intended to make available? 
Order! The House will come to order. 
Order! Is the honourable member asking for permission to incorporate certain correspondence in Hansard? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Budget Papers now before the House have produced many comments and discussions on many topics over the week. The honourble member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has selected one topic tonight. The major part of his speech related to wool. I would say that one of the biggest problems that the wool industry is facing today is the uninformed comment that has been going on for many years but which has been accelerated over the last few months in the Press and on radio and television throughout Australia and by the speech of the honourable member for Kingston. It is a great tragedy that there are so many uninformed commentators who do not know what they are speaking about. In the Press we see many pages of criticism of the wool industry and synthetics. This is one of the great tragedies that the industry has to face. To say that the Australian Wool Commission is damaging to the industry, as the honourable member for Kingston has said tonight, indicates the point I have been making. People do not understand the wool industry and the world wide implications of its problems. The point that the honour-' able member for Kingston made about the withholding of stocks, of course, is contrary to every normal commercial operation. Every other commercial operation holds stocks. As to price fixing, the wool grower of Australia is entitled to a reasonable return for his wool. He is certainly not getting it today and has not been getting it for some time. I intend to return to the wool industry before I resume my seat. 
In the Budget total receipts are about $8,654m. Three main sections of the Budget account for some 56,231 m. They include defence, the first responsibility of a national government, which will require SI, 252m, and the national welfare fund and repatriation, over $2,000m. This second item is an important aspect of any Budget and is a big increase on the provision in previous Budgets. The increases made available to pensioners and other sections of the community have been considerable. If in a Budget of $8.654m a sum of about S2,000m is for social welfare, surely this represents a reasonable deal for the people concerned. Payments to the States are the highest single item in the Budget. This year they amount to $2,930m. This again is considerably more than has been made available in the past to the States, who have an important responsibility in certain areas. Considerable increases have been made in the major sections to which I have referred. The rest of the Budget, about S2,000m, accounts for the other departments. 
To obtain the necessary revenue the Government has found it necessary to increase certain charges. It has increased the tax on fuel, postal charges and telephone charges. Any increase in the price of fuel today is not welcomed by anybody, and much less is it welcomed by people in country areas where the distances that have to be travelled are very great. I remember the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  speaking about this today in relation to his area. This is a very vital matter in country areas today where costs are so important. But I do not underestimate the amount that has been provided in the Budget to assist country people in relation to fuel costs. I think a sum of about $25m is provided to pay for certain freight costs to ensure that the price of fuel is not more than 3.3c a gallon above city prices. This is of tremendous assistance. 
The increase in postal rates and telephone charges is also disturbing. I realise also the problems which the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has in relation to an extra sum of $77m for wages and salaries in a full year. This is a very large sum of money. It is a very difficult situation to face up to. So charges have been increased in these areas. But every effort should be taken by the Postmaster-General and his Department to see that costs are kept to a minimum in these areas. I also do not under-estimate the value of recent decisions by this Government to make telephones available to people in country areas with the cost of installation within a radius of 15 miles being met by the Postal Department instead of totally by the individual telephone subscriber as was the case to a large extent previously. 
This Budget sets out to steady down inflation which is a very important factor in any budget, and certainly an important factor in Australia today. Inflation is not unique to Australia. Inflation is a world wide problem. In looking at the various figures connected with inflation, we find that Australia is faring better than most countries of the world. In Australia we have a problem in regard to our exports. In the main these are still primary industry exports. 
I have stated that one of the subjects I wish to talk about is wool. This subject is related to cost inflation which on the one hand is occurring all over the world. On the other hand, in the main, Australian primary industries which export to various countries where these cost inflations are so great are not receiving in many cases - not in all cases - a fair return for their raw materials, whether they be food or fibre. This is one of the problems. Problems also occur in relation to freight charges from Australia to various parts of the northern hemisphere. Every effort must be made to sort out this problem because if freights continue to move, as they have been moving in recent years, obviously some problems will be encountered here in achieving the real profits that otherwise might be returned to the producer. Problems also can be seen in Great Britain's proposal to join the European Economic Community. All these problems add up to the need for us to look at the future of our exports and at some of the difficulties that will be experienced in many areas. But I do not believe these problems cannot in fact be overcome. I believe that the problem of inflation is not only the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government or the State governments. I believe it is also the responsibility of the employer and the employee alike. No government can satisfactorily deal with the situation as we see it today. It must have the co-operation of all those concerned in Australia, and certainly this includes the employer and the employee. Some assistance also has been given by this Government to local government authorities to meet certain payments such as payroll tax. 
I now wish to turn to the wool industry because this is a very vital issue. So much has been said by the Press. Much illinformed comment has been made. We have a situation in which the wool industry has been torn apart internally over the last 20 to 30 years. Every attempt by the wool industry to do what any other commercial industry would do - that is, to place its product on the world's markets in an orderly fashion as has been done by many other primary industries - has been foiled. These attempts have been foiled by the Press, by overseas interests and by those commercial interests which are involved. This has happened every time until the present; at last we are getting somewhere as a result of the setting up by this Government last year of the Australian Wool Commission. The Commission is now standing its ground. Wool is at a very low price. The Commission must stand its ground. Wool is at a very low price. The Commission must stand its ground. It must not yield 1 inch in the circumstances. 
Wool is worth money on world markets today. Let us take a simple example to illustrate this: Let us consider raw material supplies from anywhere in the world today. Wool is returning to the wool grower no more than 6c in the SI, if that much. The suit that I have on my back would return to a wool grower today 3c in the $1. Let me compare this situation with that in relation to other raw materials. Let us take steel. This is a raw material which is found in Australia and in nearly every other country in the world. Steel is a raw material which is extracted from the ground. Certainly, one does not need to grow it. lt does not take generations to make a good product out of it. Steel as a raw material represents a return of 35c in the SI. Honourable members will find the same story in relation to most other raw materials. But the return on wool is down to less than 6c in the SI. The return on a suit, if wool is taken to the final endues, is nearer to 3c. 
 I have here copies of this type of exercise, which I incidentally found after I had taken out my own figures, conducted by Australian and Japanese interests. Incidently, the Japanese estimates are somewhat lower than the Australian estimates. These were conducted in 1968. The Japanese put the figure at a return of 5.7c in the $1 at that time. As I have indicated tonight, the figure presently is much lower. Wool is a tremendous fibre. It has really no equal. We know this and the World knows it. But in marketing wool, we as a nation have never gone out into the world to sell our wool clip. We have always sat at home. I ask honourable members: What other industry could have survived in that situation for approximately 100 years? Nobody has gone out of this country in peace time to sell wool. 
If honourable members study the history of wool, they will see that in 1921 the then Prime Minister, Billy Hughes, had the courage to move, to counter the pressures that were being applied. The pressures were the same as the pressures being applied today. He did not have the money to do that, but he had courage. In 1921 the statement was made in the House of Representatives - not here, but in Melbourne - that wool would not be allowed to leave this country under a certain price. That did not cost the Government a cent. That situation applied for 6 months by the insertion of a small paragraph in the customs and excise' regulations. Within 18 months the price of wool was about 3 times above the price when that statement was made. This is what has happened on every occasion when a stand has been taken. There is no difference in the circumstances today, regardless of synthetic fibres. Synthetic fibres have been with us for a long time. Honourable members can find from the records that synthetic fibres have made a tremendous advance in this world. If it had not been for their introduction, the people of the world would not be clothed, because the wool industry certainly could not produce at the rate that the manufacturers of synthetic fibres can. 
In the United States of America the introduction of synthetic fibres into a modern society is well under way. But it will be found that in the American situation, the American Government is subsidising - encouraging would be a better word - the wool industry to produce more. On certain classifications of wool coming from' Australia and from other countries adhering to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade a tariff of approximately 24.05c a lb has been imposed. This almost doubles the price of wool coming into that country. That does not mean to say that the factories' have all switched to the production of synthetic fibres. The contrary is the situation. Russia is an example of a country which knows that it must have wool and fur to keep its people warm and alive. It has learnt this through bitter history. In that country, it costs the Government approximately 300c a lb for the raw material to produce fabrics from wool. It costs 300c a lb in that country as against the return received by the growers in this country of approximately 29c a lb, or 36c a lb as guaranteed by the Government. 
If this industry is to be placed on a sound basis and be capable of standing on its own feet, which it is capable of doing, there is only one way this can be done. That is by placing it on a proper commercial basis. I have seen reports in the Press in recent days that it has cost approximately $500,000 to store wool in this country. This is in the Annual Report of the Australian Wool Commission. The wool growers of this country own 286 stores. They have held these for approximately 20 years and paid for them. They belong to the wool growers. I make this point to the House: Those stores were kept for this purpose. They have been used for other purposes for 20 years, but they have been kept for use in the event of there being a change in the marketing conditions of wool in Australia. In this event they were to be turned over to an authority which would have charge of the situation. At this point, that is the Australian Wool Commission. These wool stores belong to the growers. They have been paid for. They are free of debt. Therefore, the cost of storing the Australian wool clip, which belongs to the Australian wool grower, is minor at this stage. It is a matter of keeping those stores in order. I stand by the point that the first thing we require is storage. Secondly, of course, we require an authority, which we have at the moment in the form of a commission. Thirdly, we must have money,, and the Government at this point is underwriting the price which we receive for wool. 
Because it has been mentioned on several occasions and again today in the House I want to say that the only satisfactory way of marketing wool is to have a total acquisition of the Australian wool clip. There is no doubt that this will come but it cannot be done, as some people were suggesting in the House today, immediately. We need 7 complementary pieces of legislation to facilitate the total acquisition of the Australian wool clip. It is necessary to negotiate with all the States to get agreement because, as I say, we need 7 pieces of legislation. It is necessary to have stores and, as I have already mentioned, we have these. It is necessary to have finance and I believe that the Reserve Bank is the correct organisation through which to guarantee this finance. The storage of wool which is being carried out at the moment costs a few million dollars, which the newspapers seem to think is a tremendous amount and something out of this world. But this has been going on for years. 
Australian wheat growers will deliver to Australian wheat silos this year hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat. It will be paid for by the Reserve Bank on behalf of the Australian Wheat Board. This year $400m will be paid out and nobody will flick an eyelid because the wheat industry is being run on a sound commercial basis. Yet we have here the biggest industry in Australia - the wool industry - worth in total thousands of millions of dollars and hundreds of millions of dollars each year in exports, yet when a few million dollars are spent by the Commission in buying in wool to be sold overseas at some future date the Press writes great headlines. Nobody has ever seen such headlines when $400m, $500m or $600m has been paid out to Australian wheat growers, because this is  a  proper commercial operation and nobody worries. But here we have the wool industry a far bigger industry than the wheat industry, and yet we see headlines when money is spent. 
Not only the Commonwealth Government but also the State governments have a responsibility in this area together with the wool growers. If the industry wants to go ahead and do the right thing in relation to itself then it must start now to say what it wants. The Government guaranteed  a  price of 36c per lb applies for only one year and by the end of that time some form of permanent wool marketing operation in this country must be put into motion. I suggest that the industry must certainly get on with the job of doing just that. 
One point that is always raised in  a  debate of this kind is that world wool stocks have risen, that there is a surplus and that if we withdraw wool from the market synthetics will take over, or some such nonsense. Wool stocks have not risen at all; as a matter of fact, they have fallen. I have some figures here taken out by the Commodities Division of the Commonwealth Wool Secretariat. I obtained these figures from the Parliamentary Library. These show estimated world surplus stocks of raw wool on a clean basis in the major wool growing countries. In 1968-69, for instance they amounted to 314 million lb. In 1969-70 the figure was 252 million lb and in 1970-71 it was 224 million lb; yet we hear all this nonsense about huge surpluses of wool. A huge world surplus just does not exist today. With a fibre with such tremendous implications and used by so many people it is good commercial business to have  a  few bales in  a  shed somewhere in Australia or in the world. No good commercial undertaking can operate without surplus stocks. That is the first essential in any business. Whether it is 
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, a department store or anything else in this country or in any other, it must have surpluses to feed into the market. That is the most essential thing in any commercial exercise. Any other commercial operation in the world has to borrow money to pay for its surplus in the period before it is able to feed those goods onto the market. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In directing my question to the Minister for National Development I refer to the Prime Minister's announcement in October 1969 concerning the extension of the national water resources development programme which allocated $100m over a period of 5 years as nonrepayable grants. Can the Minister say whether Western Australia has applied for assistance under the section which  embraces smaller works to serve particular districts or groups of farmers? If so, what areas have been included for consideration? 
 Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It is wrong that in 5 or 10 years time he may make a handsome profit out of the fact that he happens to be a Minister of the Crown at the moment. That is wrong. It creates a bad image. It creates a feeling of suspicion. Of course the Minister is right when he says that nothing sinister is going on, but that suggestion is open to other people outside who do not know the true situation. Such things are often said, as the Minister has pointed out. All that the Opposition says is that the house should be the Minister's house but it should cease to be his if another person takes his place as Minister. In other words, he should occupy it as a tenant for the period he is the Minister. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 - I call the honourable member for Angas. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Since the statement in the 
Treasurer's Budget Speech that the Government intends to introduce a deficiency payment for the Australian wool clip, the Minister for Primary Industry has stated that all wool, whether sold privately or by auction, would be eligible for such a payment. In view of the Minister's most recent statement regardng proposals to exclude privately sold wool from this payment, will the Minister clarify the situation and confirm his original statement? 
Order! Interjections are out of order. 
How different that is from the proposition made by the honourable member for Reid. It also asked that the integrity of the pattern of metropolitan growth be preserved by ensuring that the non-urban regions remain inviolate. I ask: Are all these matters to be determined in Canberra, or are they to be determined by those authorities which are elected locally and which know the conditions appropriate to each market? The philosophy of this study has been to influence and develop a completely free local market in respect of land. In some cases .in Australia it has sought to do that. 
Other matters ought to be discussed also. The honourable member for Reid has said that the Commonwealth Government is not interested in the problem of the high interest charges to borrowers. I do not think that the honourable member understands that the Commonwealth is at this moment in. the process of bringing into legislation a new Commonwealth-State housing agreement which will give far greater, assistance to State authorities, cooperative terminating societies and other organisations. A substantial proportion of these funds will be used by public authorities to buy land. The honourable member is upset, and he ought to be upset, because the benefits to be given by the Commonwealth Government to these societies in respect of these new arrangements are many times greater than any of the parsimonious assistance in respect of public authority housing through land acquisition which was ever contemplated by a Labor government. So, I repeat, the honourable member ought to be upset. After all, the performance of his own party in respect of these matters has been significantly below par. 
The proposition put by the honourable member for Reid amounts effectively to nationalisation of land. To buy the land at the fringes of the capital cities would require an amount of money and resources which he dare not contemplate. Even if that money were acquired for such purposes, even if it were to be subvented for such purposes, there is no indication that that would strike at the very heart of what would arise in regard to land prices. I refer to the very nature of the market itself. Let mc quote some rather selective passages from the Housing Industry Association report to which the honourable member referred. Page 10 of the report reads as follows: 
Public acquisition could not achieve significant economies as holding charges would be heavy and any suitable land would already have a potential value built in which would have to be taken into account in any fair acquisition. 
Honourable members opposite seem to be blind to the substance and the soul of the document to which they refer. 
At the present time protests in respect of land are being made against ordinances of that Labor local authority by both the Queensland Housing Commission and the 
Queensland branch of the Commonwealth Department of Housing. They are protesting because the servicing requirements will add very significantly to the costs people will have to pay for land in those areas. So where the honourable member's own party has significant authority and power to determine local markets, all is not well. I can well understand his moving this proposal for discussion. I suggest that it is an expression of no confidence in his own party which has significant power with respect to all of these areas. The honourable member for Reid referred to a number of other points which time will not allow me to reiterate. The nature of land which is supplied locally has to be understood. If the nature of the market is to be interfered with it ought to be interfered with to the advantage of purchasers of land. If the honourable member is going to criticise even indirectly, by means of this motion, his party's local authorities, which have power in the relevant fields, let him do that explicitly, but let him not do it by proposing a matter in this House which would amount to - I say this very sadly - an effective nationalisation of land in Australian cities. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! I ask the honourable member for Newcastle to address the chair. 
Qantas made the statement that it would lay off a considerable number of staff. On page 3 of a Qantas publication the following paragraph appears: 
The Americans argue that by providing a better service across the Pacific they will generate more business, some of which would inevitably fall into Qantas' lap. But this they have lamentably failed to do. Indeed, the situation is now so bad that most planes on the route are flying with only 30 per cent capacity. On Qantas flights, this includes passengers going to Europe via North America. 
I do not have time to go through the figures for each individual airline, but summarised the position at the end of July of this year was as follows: The number of seats available weekly with the 3 airlines, Qantas, Pan American and American Airlines was 3,366, of which 1,010 were filled and 2,356 were empty. This is the equivalent of 161 Boeing 707s leaving Australia empty every week. The new agreement gives American Airlines 2 additional 707 services a week and it gives Pan American a 747 service in lieu of a 707 service. This gives Pan American an additional seat capacity of 210 and American Airlines an additional seat capacity of 280. Qantas will cease to fly 2 freighters and will use them as passenger aircraft, giving it a total of 13 flights per week. So Qantas will be given an additional 280 seats per week'. A total of 770 additional seats will be available. With the present loading of 30 per cent, it will mean that on the average there will be 3,126 empty seats on aircraft flying between Australia and America each week while only 1,010 will be filled. The equivalent of 22i Boeing 707s will leave this country each week empty. 
What is the answer to this problem? What can be done about it? At the present time British Overseas Airways Corporation has 5 Boeing 707 flights a week between Australia and the United States, UTA French Airlines has 2 flights, Air New Zealand has 4 flights and Qantas has 11 flights and 2 cargo services, but under this new agreement it will have 13 nights. Pan Am has the equivalent of 10 Boeing 707s, that is, 5 Boeing 707s and 2 Boeing 747s, which will be increased to 3 Boeing 747s a week, and American Airlines will have a total of 3 Boeing 707 flights a week. In addition, Canadian Pacific has one flight between Sydney and Vancouver each week. This means that there is the equivalent of 30 Boeing 707 and 2 Boeing 747 flights a week between Australia and America. There are 6 flights on Monday, 3 on Tuesday, 4 on Wednesday, 3 on Thursday, 5 on Friday, 6 on Saturday and 5 on Sunday. So no-one can argue that there are not sufficient flights between Australia and America or between America and Australia. What we should have said - and what we should still be saying - to the Americans when they said that Qantas could not fly 747s to America was: 'All right, you cannot fly your Pan-Am 747s to Australia, so you had better revert back from 747s to 707s'. 
I turn now to the question of the purchase of new aircraft. In the last 10 years Qantas has bought $3 65m worth of aircraft from America. Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia between them have bought $175m worth of aircraft. This does not include the famous F111 aircraft. Commuter aircraft flying in Australia today which were purchased from America are valued at $6.25m. Yet these are the people who have said to Qantas: 'You cannot fly your 747s to America unless you grant us additional flights'. The Government has been weakkneed and spineless in this matter. It should have been prepared to stand up to this great friend and ally of Australia - America is continually referred to in this way - and to say: 'Not only can you not fly your Pan-Am 747s to Australia, but we are not going to buy any more aircraft from you.' Trans-Australia Airlines recently placed an order for 4 Boeing 727 200 series at $7m each, making a total of $28m. No doubt Ansett will be wanting the same aircraft because TAA and Ansett are like twins; what one gets the other wants. That means that sales of aircraft totalling $5 6m are immediately available to Boeing. The internal airlines, the domestic airlines, are considering purchasing wide bellied jets. They should be instructed by this Government not to display any interest whatsoever in the Lockheed L1 01 ls or the Douglas DC10s or any other American aircraft, but to place an order for the European Airbus A300. We should be taking this reprisal. 
No-one can expect any reduction in fares under this new arrangement. The most heavily trafficked route in the world, the London to New York route - and I have not time to quote the figures - is one of the most expensive routes. The cost per passenger seat mile on that route is as high as on any other route in the world today. If this Government had any courage at all it would do the things I have suggested tonight. For the reasons I have put forward I believe there is a crying need for this Parliament to display some interest in what is happening in the Department of Civil Aviation today and in what this Govern ment is doing in the field of civil aviation. The members of this Parliament should be permitted the opportunity of investigating and examining all the books available and also the facts on the matters I have referred to tonight so that at least the Parliament will be aware of what is happening. If this Government had any decency and if it had nothing to be afraid of it would support the amendment I have moved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
The Opposition has introduced this matter of public importance in these terms consisting of exactly 8 words: 
The failure of the Government's subsidised medical scheme. 
It is really not possible to single out any particular area and divorce it from the total medical scheme which has been introduced over the years by this Government. The present medical scheme has been in operation only since 1970 - last year. The figures indicate that the scheme now covers a very large number of people. In this Budget it is estimated that an amount of $504.6m will be expended this year on health services over a wide range of activities in assisting the people of Australia to overcome their health problems which is, as everybody will admit, a great responsibility not only of the Commonwealth Government but also of the State governments, which have their part to play in the overall health of the people of Australia. The Commonwealth does its part in making available this large amount of money through many avenues to assist the people of Australia. 
The Government's subsidised health benefit plan now under debate is, I believe, a part of that overall responsibility. One could not expect that all those eligible for assistance under the scheme would enrol in the first year or in the first 2 years of its operation. Obviously in a new scheme in a large nation such as ours it takes some time before the people become aware of the benefits to which they are entitled. My own experience in this field is that those people who have not taken the opportunity to participate in this scheme until such time as they have gone into hospital - 'having found out at that point of time that they were entitled to participate in the scheme - have been extremely pleased to learn that the scheme was available to them. 
The Government has for some time spent quite a considerable amount of money in an endeavour to bring to the notice of the people of this country the provision of this scheme. I have no doubt that the Government will continue to disseminate this information and that in time people will take advantage of the provisions of this plan. In 1970-71 the Commonwealth paid out S6.9m under the scheme and it is estimated that it will pay out $9.7m in 1971-72. So it can be seen that there has been a substantial increase in the amount of money to be paid out by the Commonwealth for improved health services. 
Mention was made of where hospitals lit into this plan. One honourable member on the other side said too much work would be involved in ascertaining the position of social workers. 1 have no doubt that the hospitals welcome this scheme. They welcome it with open arms because it assists them. Of course, h assists the patients of those hospitals. This scheme was designed to assist the needy people of Australia. But at the same time 1 point out that the people involved in treating patients in hospitals throughout Australia would no doubt also benefit from the provisions of this scheme. This plan is an extension of the medical services in this country. From what I know of it I have no doubt that it is worth while and it will continue to be worth while. The scheme has been upgraded in the one year that it has been in operation. The amount of money available in the 3 categories of eligibility for assistance has been increased. I have no doubt that the Government will from time to time make adjustments to this scheme. 
I am sure that this scheme will be much sought after by those people who are eligible to receive benefits. A matter which is a worry to many people in Australia, especially the family man, is the cost of health services. This scheme is designed to help families which are in a low income bracket. When these people realise that this scheme is available to them I do not doubt that they will take advantage of it because the cost of health services is a great worry lo the people of Australia. The Budget this year, like those which preceded it, has been designed to help those in need. That is the first obligation of this Government as I see it. In relation to pensioners this is so. In many other areas where an amount of money is made available each year by the Commonwealth and also, I believe, by the States it is a fact of life that the object is to assist those people in the greatest need. Surely the health service which we are debating this afternoon is one in which we should assist those who need assistance. It is a very practical operation to do just that. 
I have not as yet heard from tha Opposition a real argument for raising this ques tion this afternoon. As I have stated previously, the figures indicate to me that there has been a considerable lift in Commonwealth expenditure from $6.9m in the first year to an estimated $9.7m in the second year. If it continues to lift at this rate and those eligible take up the opportunities under the plan and apply in greater numbers, as is obviously happening at the moment, then no doubt this is a plan which is working. It helps people who want help so surely it is worth persevering with it. Would the Opposition deny these people, the low income earners in the community, the right to obtain assistance? Would it deny them the right to have access to a scheme such as this? 
Whether the scheme is being used to its full extent at the moment is another question altogether. The fact Ls that it is being made available by the Commonwealth together with many other health benefits throughout the country. The system under which this Parliament operates, as has been shown over the years, requires that all Acts of Parliament must be brought up to date from time to time. This is what Parliament is all about. Acts of Parliament are passed for the benefit of the people, and if there are areas in which these Acts are not doing what they are intended to do the Government will bring in Bills to amend them accordingly. This is part of the Government's responsibility. The basis for this proposal is very sound and if there are areas in which it should be adjusted I have no doubt that the Government will bring an amending Bill into this House - as it has done, as I have mentioned already, within one year. The Government has adjusted the rates of income within which people receiving those incomes may apply, and this sort of adjustment to any Act is part of Parliament's operation and part of the Government's responsibility. The main thing is that the real basis of any Act must be sound and from my experience as a member of this House I believe that this Act is sound. It can assist many people and many families throughout Australia who need assistance. 
Sitting suspended from 5.53 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member for Wilmot will cease interjecting. 
Three weeks ago I sent to the Minister representing the industry and exporters in my State a telegram in which I drew attention to this fact and to the fact that increased costs on freight alone of 24 per cent - for instance, on the Europe-United Kingdom conference - was greater than any benefit that averaged out in any of the 18 varietal pools. I support what was said by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  when he talked about the problems of the pear industry. 
However, I think that the opposite argument to this is the argument that was implied by the honourable members for Dawson and Wilmot throughout this debate. I think the honourable member for Wilmot said that this is not a full blooded stabilisation scheme and that it is to be hoped that from the point of view of those who continue growing apples that it will not develop into a full blooded stabilisation scheme. By that statement I hope the honourable member does not mean that there should be a bigger deficiency payment to apple growers because nothing could ruin more quickly the totality of apple growers id a situation where they cannot easily quit their product on export under a situation of increasing production of apples. As far as I am concerned, I believe that this is a clear implication from what has been said tonight by both honourable members. 
I would like to get back to the scheme itself because I think it is important. I hope that  I  have convinced the House that I have no intention of supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I would, like to go on and say that the average export support prices will be set out with regard to movements in cash costs. They will be brought into effect in their entirety each year by the Government through the Minister. I think I have made my own point, of view plain. If we look at the balance of the industry in Australia I think we see that we have reached the unhappy stage where the attitude of my own State probably is a proper one, if a selfish one. The growers in my State say: 'For goodness sake, we must look after the position of apple exports from Tasmania'. They realise that this is of prime importance to them because Tasmania has an enormous surplus of apples in excess of normal home requirements. Western Australia, for instance, which exports through. 3 ports to Europe and the United Kingdom is the next highest exporter of apples. On 1970 export figures Western Australia exported over 1 million bushels of apples to those areas 
But this is only one-third of the amount of apples exported from Tasmania during that same period. 
Every other State virtually looks after its own home market. Each is very pleased to do so and it feels that it can stay in business doing just that. But what they all fear most is the enormous surplus on the Tasmanian market. I do not think that even if it is selfish, there is much wrong with the attitude of South Australian growers when they say that we should try to look after the export of apples from Tasmania. In the Bill before the House the Government aims to give help to those areas that are most vulnerable. The Government intends to give help to those sales made on open consignment, sales made aboard a vessel in transit and sales termed consignment against advance payments. In other words, only a partial payment will be made in that case. The Government, for instance, in this scheme dors not aim to give help to forward sales because they are not subject to the same risk as the other categories which I have just described. 
I would like to quote briefly from the Minister's second reading speech in relation to that point. He said: 
If the average export return of a season for a variety falls below its average export support price, then a payment will be made from the relevant fund to the owner of the fruit. If the average export return for a variety exceeds the support price, then owners will be levied to make a contribution to the relevant fund. 
If, at any time, the balance in a stabilisation fund is insufficient to make the necessary payment to . owners, the Commonwealth Government will meet the deficiency. The contribution to the appropriate varietal fund by the owner of the fruit, where a contribution is called for, will be on a sliding scale up to a maximum of 80c per  bushel  The Commonwealth's aggregate liability in respect of the fruit of a season will be related to the total quantity of fruit of that season exported on risk. 
I have described the categories that fall into that area of risk. The Minister went on: 
The basic limitation is a total quantity of 4.4 million bushels, which could attract a maximum payment of 80c per bushel. As the quantity exported at risk goes above 4.4 million bushels, the maximum rate of payment per bushel will be reduced pro rata . . . 
Insofar as that is the case, it is a payment scheme based very much on the cotton deficiency payments scheme, which is the sort of scheme that merits the support, I think, of most honourable members. It is not an open cheque scheme. Its aim is to help the apple industry over a 5-year period, and the cost is assessed at $ 10x over that period. Might I hasten to add for those who are interested that once again this is below the amount of money taken from wine grape growers under the excuse of an excise scheme recently brought into being, although through a deficiency in sales the amount to be raised under that scheme is down, I think from memory, from the average assessed figure of $15.2m per year. It is down for the reason that will be apparent to honourable members if they stop to think about it for a minute. 
There is a second novel feature of this scheme. Again I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister, who said: 
. proceeds from forward sales- 
Those are non-risk sales in respect of which there is no deficiency payment -  will be brought into the calculation of the rate of return per bushel from export sales against which the Government's guarantee on consignment sales is to be matched.  1 have no particular comment to make in relation to that statement other than to say that I accept the fact that this is unconventional. I accept the fact that this scheme and the basis of it was a matter of negotiation between the industry and the Government over a period of 3 years. Many other facets of this scheme should perhaps be debated. For instance, I know that in my own State and in my own area the scheme has no real implication in respect of pears - whether we are considering the production of pears, the export of pears or the risk  consignment  of  pears.  The honourable member for Murray devoted most of his speech to the question of the very real difficulty created by enormous surpluses of pears in the State of Victoria. The situation calls for a lot of sympathy, and I must admit that in due course I should like to see consideration given to providing some form of payment in some of these areas to encourage people to pull out pear trees. I hope that if this does occur it will not overlap the apple industry. 
In passing, might I say that one of the problems confronting the apple, pear and vine growing areas and many other rural production areas is that these industries are not quite like factories. They cannot very well put men off if sales decrease; they cannot very well turn down the wheel to limit production. Trees have been planted and their is investment in an area which is subject perhaps to 25 years of production. If any reason is needed in anybody's mind as to why this scheme which we are discussing tonight should be introduced, let us remember that a lifetime of investment and savings by some people has been put into this form of production, und it is neither lightly turned off nor does one lightly liquidate or cast aside savings or investment of a lifetime. 
Perhaps 1 might sum up briefly by saying that there will be people who may feel that the Government is not expending taxpayers' funds to the best advantage. I would not class myself as one of these. I can think of industries growing in production in this country because of Government help and Government payments. If people's goods cannot be sold then the Government should not encourage greater production. But this is not so in this scheme. As I see it, the deficiency payment as currently set will allow the efficient to continue to produce, particularly if more efficient handling schemes can be discovered and put into effect. However, the scheme will not allow the less efficient easily to continue in production, and this is the way, I maintain, any responsible government must act. To do more would flood markets and bring ruin to all in the industry; to do less would not take into account the welfare of apple producers who are disadvantaged by high wages, high costs and other matters which they believe - and I think rightly so - have come about through no fault of their own. I support the Bill before the House. 
Order! The question is 'That the debate be now adjourned'. Those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary no. 
Opposition members - No. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Can the Minister for the Navy say whether the causeway project at Garden Island in Cockburn Sound will be completed on schedule? Can he say also whether naval base development projects are planned to proceed at the completion of the causeway project? If so, can the Minister indicate when such works will proceed and what is involved? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr turnbull)  adjourned. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
If one wants to find out what the law in the Australian Capital Territory is one has to find out first what it was on 1st January 1911. That in itself is a rather bizarre and time consuming task, because most of the books that relate to that period are now out of print and cannot be obtained. One of the essential elements of any system of law is not only that the law should be clear and able to be understood by any person with reasonable intelligence but also that it should be accessible. With the starting point that the law in the Australian Capital Territory is to be found by directing one's inquiry to 1911 one is driven to look for books that no longer exist because the New South Wales law of 1911 has now been superseded by subsequent New South Wales laws and those books are no longer needed in New South Wales. They probably belong in legal museums, but people in the Australian Capital Territory have to go looking for. them. 
The first point I want to make relates to the confession - it can only be called that - in the Minister's statement about the shocking state into which the laws in the Australian Capital Territory have been allowed to fall. He said over and over again that a lot of the law here is unknowable. We do not know which of the imperial statutes apply. It is clear that a lot of them apply and make up the law in the Australian Capital Territory. But we do not know which ones apply. Copies of them cannot be obtained and have not been obtainable for a long while. It is not even known - no lawyer could really express an opinion on it with any degree of confidence - which of the old New South Wales statutes apply. They do not apply in New South Wales. The Australian Capital Territory is an island surrounded by New South Wales. The statutes do not apply in Queanbeyan but they apply here. One cannot find out which they are. In 1971 the Government sets up a commission and says: 'Please look into it. Please tell us something about what the law in this island of Commonwealth Territory called the Australian Capital Territory is.' That surely is a confession that should be noted in passing. I said that everyone applauds the setting up of this Commission, belated as it is and with the limited resources that it will have, but it should have been done many years ago. 1 turn now to the question of accessibility. The statutes or the ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory were last consolidated in 1957. About 5 volumes have been bound since that time in which one can look for other laws that have been grafted on to them. That is a thing that should be taken care of. The Commonwealth statutes themselves have not been consolidated in any accessible form since about 1951; 1 am not sure of the precise date. An incredible amount of time wasting is taking place here. 
I want to talk about some of the other points - 1 suggest for the record and for the Minister's attention when he confers with the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  - which also cry out for law reform in the Australian Capital Territory. Some of them are what we call lawyers' law. The average non-lawyer is put off by it because he thinks it is technical and unpleasant. He does not understand it and it seems a bit silly. But lawyers' law - technical law, law that does not involve policy considerations - is often the most important branch of law, because it is there that the lawyer has to spend his time. It is there that the time he spends is reflected in his fees. It is there that the fees are passed on to the client. One of the reasons why, when that branch of the law is inefficient and out of date, the ordinary client has to pay so very much for the legal services that he obtains from his lawyer is that the lawyer spends a lot of time trying to find out what is the professional or technical way of doing something. So there is a great need to attend to that matter. Surely the Commission should go into that aspect of the matter primarily. 
But policy law cannot be a matter for the Commission. It has to be noted also in passing that at least one of these 6 points that have been referred to the Commission involves a matter of policy. It is true that the Commission is not going to make or unmake law. It is going to investigate, examine and report back. But the question of business premises and whether or not business premises should be subjected to the recovery provisions of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance is surely a matter of policy. That was taken out of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance because of policy - a decision of Government. Now the Government is asking a technical, nonrepresentative, non-responsible - in that sense - body to consider whether it should be put back in again. I suggest that there is an area of great danger there. 1 think that one of the worst and most glaring examples of the need for law reform is in the field of workers' compensation. The relevant ordinance is a 1951 ordinance. It is hopelessly at variance with the Act which applies in New South Wales. It places the injured workman in the Australian Capital Territory at a great disadvantage compared with the workman injured over in Queanbeyan or Goulburn. The ordinance contains a provision that was interpreted in a High Court decision, Smith v. McErlane, as far back as 1962, 9 years ago. That means that a partially incapacitated person in the Australian Capital Territory can often receive $9, $10, $15 or $20 a week less than a partially incapacitated person over in New South Wales. Nothing has ever been done to remedy and overcome by subsequent amendments in the Workers' Compensation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory that High Court decision in Smith v. McErlane. Ordinances require rules and regulations before they can be made to work. No rules have really been made pursuant to the 1951 Workers' Compensation Ordinance. It relies upon rules that were made pre-war. It operates under an ordinance that was made in 1946, which was based on an entirely different concept and has long since been repealed. 
The 1951 ordinance tells a person to go and draw up his agreement in a certain way. He goes to the rules and he finds references in those rules to sections of an ordinance that no longer exists. That has been the condition of the law in the Australian Capital Territory dealing with workers' compensation for almost as long as anyone can remember. There is confusion compounded upon confusion. It is surely a matter for further attention. Another matter which requires attention is the law dealing with defamation. In this island of Commonwealth territory anything that is published must also, almost of necessity, be published over in New South 
Wales. We operate on a system of defamation that goes back to pre-1911. The New South Wales statute was last consolidated in about 1912. One has the devil's own job to try to find a copy of it. If a person sues for defamation in the Australian Capital Territory his entitlement is judged by one set of rules here in the Australian Capital Territory but by a different set of rules in respect of a newspaper published or a broadcast made in Goulburn. A person can win in one place but he can lose in the other, although he sues in the same type of court. This is a Gilbertian situation yet this is the situation that exists in the Australian Capital Territory. New South Wales introduced its defamation Act - controversial as it is but at least it is more in keeping with modern thinking - in 1958. The Act in the Australian Capital Territory goes back to the early part of the century. 
If there is a place anywhere in the Commonwealth requiring modern administrative laws it is Canberra because it is essentially a government town. The Commonwealth Public Service is the most important influence in the lives of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. We have more administrative tribunals functioning in this Territory than perhaps in any other part of Australia. These tribunals exercise great power. There is no uniform system of procedure for them to follow. They all have their own separate rules. Some permit lawyers to appear before them and some do not. For example, we know that a committee on administrative law reform has sat and has made a report to the Government. I think that committee was under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kerr and its members included such eminent people as the Solicitor-General,  Mr Justice  Mason of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and Professor Whitmore of the Australian National University. There is great demand in this city for the contents of that report to be made known. It should not be shelved. A lot of people are interested to know the recommendations contained in it. 
Section 11a of the City Areas Leases Ordinance gives a veto-like power - a Godlike power - to the Minister for the Interior to decide whether a person who wants to change the purpose clause in his lease may do so. The person may want to do something that originally he was not allowed to do. Circumstances may have changed; his circumstances may have changed or the whole city area may have changed. But instead of allowing him to go, say, to a court or even to a tribunal to argue his case properly and have a dispassioneddispassioned airing of the merits of his case section 1 1a gives power to the Minister to say I will put a certificate on and if I put that certificate on you cannot go behind it.' That is the end of it. On that basis a person cannot even get to a court. That is dictatorial exercise of power at its worst. It is a matter that cries out for attention because it has caused a lot of hardship in the Australian Capital Territory. 
There are some other points I. would like to mention but I appreciate that 1 have not sufficient time to deal with them all. Some of them range beyond the lawyer's law into the area of politics. For example, some years ago when I first came to Canberra members of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force - I mean no disrespect when I say this - performed the duty of being officers in the Austraiian Capita] Territory Supreme Court. It was one of the early decisions, I think, of one of the judges who was appointed at about that time to say: 'They should not be here. We will have civilian uniformed attendants because my courts should not look like police courts.' I think New South Wales changed the name of its courts from 'police courts' to 'courts of petty sessions' for that identical reason 60 or 70 years ago. We have never had to do that in the Australian Capita] Territory. In our courts of petty sessions the police not only .play the role of attendants but they also prosecute in uniform. I would invite anyone to go to any of our courts of petty sessions in the Australian Capital Territory. They will find that there is often the appearance of a police court, with all the unfortunate features of it. I do not mean any criticism of individual police officers when I say this. For the sake of appearance and for the sake of justice appearing to be done, the police should, in their own interests, be taken out of these courts because they are criticised for being there in these roles. I do not think there would be any opposition from the Police Force if it was suggested that its members should come out of these courts and be replaced by civilian attendants and civilian prosecutors from the office of the Crown Solicitor, the Attorney-General's Department or some other prosecuting section that could be created to perform this function. I do not think there would be any real opposition from the Police Force to this suggestion because it knows that it buys into trouble and disputes because of the role its men are required to play in these courts. 
One of the matters referred to the commission by the Minister was the procedural changes that may be necessary to the Courts of Petty Sessions Ordinance if these courts are permitted to deal with cases with the limitation raised to $5,000. It is a bad thing that in the past, although it was glibly passed over in the statement by the Minister, the procedural safeguards for civilian cases in courts of petty sessions were very inferior compared to those in a superior court. There is no right to discovery and there is no right to interrogatories. There is a whole area in which it can be said that a person fighting a civilian case in these courts suffers from the quality of justice given to him as of necessity because of the rules or because of the lack of rules compared to what that person might get if he went to the supreme court. I know it is said - the Minister himself has said it: 'You are not fighting over a very large sum of money; is it not better to have summary justice?' Summary justice is often not very good. It is to be hoped that when those procedural changes are made they will include proper safeguards and provision for full scale discovery and interrogatories as exist in the supreme court. 
This raises other problems. The magistrates who sit in courts of petty sessions have not had the experience of supreme court judges in determining and sitting on civilian cases for personal injuries involving medical and other issues. Neither have they the experience of district court judges, supreme court judges or county court judges in other States. They do essentially landlord and tenant work, police work; criminal work and preliminary hearings. Because we do not have a workers compensation commission in the Australian Capita] Territory these magistrates have extended jurisdiction in workers compensation cases. If they are required to do increased work they will find themselves in difficulty for a while. I do not want to put in a plug unnecessarily but it seems to me that if they are to do this extra work that is traditionally given to supreme court judges they should be paid something at least akin to the salary of a district court or county court judge instead of the paltry sum that they receive at the moment. I could go on. For example, there is no provision in Australian Capital Territory law for compensation to be made to victims of crime. There is no public solicitor in the Australian Capital Territory whereas New South Wales has one. We have one completely archaic law concerning landlords. It is known as 'distress for rent'. New South Wales has not had it since  1930.  Some honourable members may be aware that 'distress for rent' is a self-help type of remedy whereby a landlord may go into premises and help himself. 
Most of the matters I have touched  ob  are what I would call essentially lawyer's law although some of them contain elements of policy and I appreciate  taas  fact. I would like to touch on a couple et natters which are frankly matters  ot  policy that cry out for attention. The 'font one does not need a lot to be said abeu* it. it relates to the proof of liability in  oases  involving motor vehicle accidents beard  in  civilian courts such as the supreme court Surely it is time for us to move  in  the direction of some system of not having  to  prove who was at fault, such  as cants in  some parts of the world, rather than eon.continuing with our archaic system el proving liability, which clutters up our courts at the moment and leads to extended .bearings, expensive hearings and long delays. 
What is perhaps more important because it affects human liberty is the criminal law. Like so much of the law in the Australian Capital Territory, our main criminal law is the New South Wales Crimes Act of  1900.  Many of the amendments made to the New South Wales Act since  1911  do not apply in the Australian Capital Territory. Some do because we have occasionally picked up one or two amendments, as we have with the Conveyancing Act, which the Minister mentioned. We were told in  1969  by the then Attorney-General that a criminal code was to be introduced into Commonwealth Territories. That code in draft form was circulated and it is available. It contains a lot of lawyer's law. There is no criminal procedure in it but there are a lot of criminal enactments of what I would call lawyer's law. It also contains a lot of policy matters. If this is introduced into this House it will be a major piece of legislation affecting not only the Australian Capital Territory but also the Northern Territory and other Commonwealth Territories. I ask the Minister very sincerely to use his good offices, his powers of persuasion or whatever he can - I will even say 'please' if necessary - to see that that proposed piece of legislation is not just introduced into this House and steamrollered through as other legislation in the past has been, because it does contain a lot of controversial enactments. 
Lawyers know that criminal responsibility involves not only the performance of an act but also a certain state of mind. If this proposed code becomes law it will rewrite many of the concepts with which we have grown up and many of the con.concepts that have been the subject of consideration and examination by the courts over the years and have been delineated by Latin expressions such as actus rea, mens rea and so on.  1  am not saying that these matters are not in need of reform, but they are well understood. . It seems to me that this code introduces a new definition of something called a 'culpable mental state'. I will not read it to the House but it is almost an insult to the English language. A code is intended to achieve clarity and to make the law more acceptable, but if this code is introduced in its present form it will certainly not be a progressive step, it will be a retrograde step.- 
The code also involves policy matters and extremely controversial matters such as abortion, homosexual offences, prostitution, incest, obscene publications and offences of this sort, most of which reflect essentially nineteenth century thinking. I am - not suggesting that nineteenth century thinking does not affect us in the twentieth century because obviously it does, but noone can doubt that in this day and age a lot of these values are under attack and are being challenged not by irresponsible people but by very responsible people who are deeply concerned with the harshness and injustice resulting from the operation of some of these laws. These matters should be the subject df a full scale debate. 
When the subject of the proposed code was first touched on in 1969 the Leader of the Opposition then' referred to the desirability of a joint committee, a non-Party committee because a lot of these subjects would not involve a party-type dispute, to investigate thoroughly such matters of reform of the criminal law where the Commonwealth could make criminal law, particularly in policy matters of this sort, to make recommendations, and to hear submissions and take evidence from learned criminologists, penologists, sociologists, doctors, psychiatrists and everyone who has made a study of crime, the criminal, the prisoner and the problems of rehabilitation. 
This is what should be done. There should be a joint committee working closely with the Law Reform Commission. These are controversial areas. There are many people who feel very strongly about them and these problems cannot be shelved or swept under the carpet in 1971. I suggest to the Minister that something in the nature of a joint committee should be set up to look properly into these matters, and that this proposed legislation should not be put through in the normal way because this House is not equipped to deal with legislation such as that to be found in the proposed draft code for the Commonwealth Territories. 
1 address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. 1 believe that a contract was signed with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for the supply of a substantial quantity of meat from Australia in 1971. Will the Minister inform the House of the latest position regarding the fulfilment of this contract? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Bill before the House is to amend the Western Australia (South-West Region Water Supplies) Agreement Act 1965. The original Bill was brought into the House to make a certain amount of money available for the continuation of the Comprehensive Water Scheme in Western Australia. This is nothing new to that State and all those who criticised it both inside and outside this House did not, as the. honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, do their homework. This scheme started 70-odd years ago and has been added to ever since with a tremendous amount of success. If an analysis of the amount of production and pleasure it has already given to the people of Western Australia over that period of 70-odd years was made - that, of course, is not possible - the figures, especially in relation to production, would be staggering. Anybody who analysed the spending of the few million dollars concerned and the utilisation of the water would find that any such scheme would be a tremendous asset to a State in somewhat the same situation. This Bill lifts expenditure in these areas from $ 10.5m to SI 2m. 
This is, as I have said, an extension of the original project to take water into these outlying areas. It is of benefit not only to the people themselves but to the financial structure of those areas. It is an insurance scheme against those very dry times which occur in those areas and affect agriculture. Losses in these areas can be tremendous unless we have a safety valve in the form of water supplies to at least some of them and this is what the scheme has been doing. Although the original scheme of C. Y. O'Connor was designed to move water through to the gold fields it was at the same time feeding it through into these vast agricultural areas. It is not therefore a short term project but a very long term project. It has already been going on for a long time. It is increasing in magnitude, and its ability to serve the areas involved will continue for a long time to come. We have had a lot of discussion in this House about what the Commonwealth does or does not do in relation to decentralisation. What better way to start doing these sorts of things in relation to decentralisation than by supplying money such as the Commonwealth is doing under this Bill to take water to service these inland areas of Western Australia. 
In fact, the majority of the original population in the gold fields was to be supplied under this scheme. The gold took them there but they could not have lived without water. We must take water to the people and to industries wherever we may find them. This water will move through some very rich and productive areas which in previous years had tremendous difficulties in retaining enough water to see them through two or three years of drought. This is required in some cases because of the lack of run off from the catchment areas and so forth. There are limitations on the depth to which dams may be sunk in this area and there are other limitations on the obtaining of underground water because of the salt content of the water in at least some of the areas in the eastern district. It was because of this that this scheme was first brought into being and it is only through this scheme that we have been able to develop large areas of country and give the farmers security of water supplies. 
Stock numbers, of both sheep and cattle, have been built up. Cattle numbers are increasing at a great pace at the moment and despite the situation in which we find wool today it will improve. This is a cycle of the times. We have had it before but to hear some people talk today one would think it was the end of the world so far as wool is concerned. But the very opposite is the case, as I analyse it. We have been through these cycles of high production, high prices and crises in the short history of Australia and in the history of the world but it is well known that wool will return to a reasonable price. I have no doubt about this whatsoever. Certain things have to be done before this will happen. As far as the profitability of these areas is concerned I have no doubt at all that these vast areas can be turned over to the production of other things such as beef. In fact this is being done at the present time. Under this Bill which increases the amount being made available by the Commonwealth, the State has to make, I think, 30 equal consecutive half-yearly repayments commencing 10 years after the date on which the initial payment is made by the Commonwealth. 
But the increases in costs at this point illustrate the difficulties being faced. The Government has had to bring in this Bill to assist the State to overcome these increased costs because the amount provided in the original Bill in 1965 has proved to be insufficient. This is unfortunate in many ways because it increases the repayments which the State has to meet. It also increases the cost of supplying water to those people who are operating from the pipelines. The increased cost involved in this water supply scheme is only one of the many increases in costs which are confronting rural industries in Australia today. I hope that this Government, together with the 6 State governments - because I do not believe that any single government can do it - will find an answer to the problems concerning costs which we face in Australia today. I believe that this is a challenge not only for this Government, but also for the 6 State governments and for every industry and every individual in this country. We must sit up and take notice of what in fact is happening in Australia in relation to the cost spiral. This Bill has been introduced in order to overcome the problems concerning costs involved in this Western Australian water supply scheme. 
I sincerely hope that the amount of money which the Commonwealth is making available under this Bill will be sufficient to complete this section of the scheme without any additional costs being incurred. However, I should like to add that there is another important project which has not yet been commenced in this area, and that is the Corrigin-York project which I believe this Government, in conjunction with the Western Australian Government, is analysing at the present time. In fact, this is another section of the total scheme which was envisaged many years ago. This is also a very important leg to the total scheme. Because of the situation in rural areas today, I sincerely hope that the Commonwealth or the State will not renege on this particular project which is being analysed at the present time. Surely everybody must realise that this area has tremendous potential for producing foodstuffs for the world. Although we are moving through some rather difficult times in rural areas at the moment, does anyone say that we will not come out of them as we have done previously and move into better times? I firmly believe that the Government should give every consideration not only to the particular scheme which is the subject of the Bill we are debating tonight but also the Corrigin-York project, which the State has put forward for consideration, because, as I said, this in fact is another leg to this important scheme which, over the years, has proved its worth. 
Nobody analysing the scheme which provides reticulated water to many areas in Western Australia can find fault with what has happened as far as production is concerned. It has been tremendous. But without the scheme I fear for what might happen in some of the areas because the nature of the soil in these areas is similar to that in the areas which are covered by the Bill we are discussing tonight. There are problems in finding depths, and there are problems in finding underground water because of the salt content. But it is important to remember that meat, wool and also grains in great quantities are being produced in these areas, and this production is increasing year by year. It will be a sorry day for Australia when in fact we are not in a position to continue the agricultural pursuits which we have been following for so many years. I certainly support the Bill before the House tonight. As I have said, I hope that there will be a further extension to the scheme. 
It is interesting to record - and I think 1 have done so in this House previously - that the man who first started this scheme was an engineer named C. Y. O'Connor. He was a tremendous engineer. Unfortunately, before water got to Kalgoorlie on the first leg he committed suicide because of the pressure brought to bear by certain people and by the Press. They said that he was completely crazy ever to think that he could achieve a project like reticulating water to this remote area in Western Australia. They said that the scheme would be a complete and dismal failure. He was a tremendous engineer. He did other things as well as engineering this scheme. But pressure was brought to bear by people who were saying to this man: 'You cannot do it; you are crazy if you try'. He did it, and the scheme has proved successful in the last 70-odd years. It has gone on to better things. We had the problem, which C. Y. O'Connor could see at that time of having water reticulated into Kalgoorlie, and also Coolgardie, for the purpose of getting minerals from the ground. In that case it was gold. Now the Kambalda project has become a reality and that mineral area is being serviced by water as a result of the foresight of C. Y. O'Connor. 
But people are saying the same thing today as they said 70-odd years ago. They are saying: 'You should not do it; it will not be a success'. The sooner we get rid of that thinking the sooner we will realise that before one can start to do anything in this country, as in other countries, one needs water. If one does not reticulate water to these areas, one simply does not get anywhere. If water is turned off in any city in the world there is complete panic in a matter of a few hours. The scheme which is the subject of the Bill before us tonight is a continuation of a thought of a great engineer some 70-odd years ago. The scheme was a success at that time, and I have no doubt that it will be a success in the future. 
The estimates which are before the Committee at the moment are for the Department of Labour and National Service. The appropriation amounts to some $20. 5m, which represents a considerable increase -on last year's figure of $16,275,978. It is interesting to note the areas in which some of these increases have in fact taken place. I shall mention only one or two of them at this stage. The appropriation for financial assistance to .. apprenticeship - training amounts to $700,000 in this year's estimates whereas the expenditure last year was $569,708. If one moves down the list a little one will find that the appropriation for the employment training scheme for Aborigines amounts -to $154,000 as against the expenditure of $94,932 last year. There has also been a considerable increase in the provision for the employment training school for women from the expenditure last year of $138,784 to the appropriation of $225,000 this financial year. 
Having said that I would like to say one or two words about the industrial situation in Australia at the moment. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who was the previous  speaker,  said that the wages and salaries of employees are fixed but the prices received for goods sold are not. That is true in many cases. But let me remind the honourable member that the price of a tremendous amount of the prodution in this country which finds its way overseas is in fact fixed. If he were to study the situation very closely the honourable member would find that not only are the prices of these products fixed but also that they have been moving downwards considerably in the last few years. It is also a fact that the industries which produce these goods - the primary industries - have to meet the increases in costs brought about by the various increases in wages and salaries and also to meet the general increases in costs in this country. Those industries are at an extreme disadvantage in that situation. In view of the fact that from an export point of view we rely on our primary industries to keep the economy healthy, it is time all Australia sat up and took notice of what is in fact going on. 
The industrial relations situation is  a  very important area indeed of the total scene in Australia today. As I said in this chamber a few days ago, it is necessary for not only the employer and the employee but also each and every government and each and every individual in this country to sit up and take notice of what is happening. We have a rapidly growing work force. I believe that it is the wish of everybody in this Parliament and everybody in Australia that this work force shall continue to be employed. If it is going to be gainfully employed it must be working on a sound economic -basis. We cannot allow wages, salaries and prices to continue to soar as they have been soaring iri recent times if we want to capture markets not only here in Australia but also overseas. At this time we are desperately looking for markets. 
It has been interesting to note that our sales of manufactured goods have increased over the last few years. From memory, I think they amount to something like 20 per cent of our total exports. But we cannot expect this to continue, when we look at the figures which have been produced in recent times for the increase in costs in this country. This must damage our situation. It must retard our opportunities to take advantage of the markets overseas. All the disruption that has been going on in industry over the last year or two has certainly aggravated conditions in the total scene. Australia cannot afford that situation. 
Over the last few years we have seen  a  tremendous development - in the main, in my own State - in the mining industries. For instance, we have been able to capture certain markets overseas for our minerals. We would like to go on and develop those minerals. I hope that this trend will continue. But if we do not watch our production lines and if we do not watch our costs in this country we will be in trouble. As I said before, we are many miles from markets in the northern hemisphere. With increased costs in this country coupled with the excessive freights which are operating throughout the world we will be in trouble in developing these industries. It behoves everybody to look at industrial relations in this country. I am not going to blame any particular section of industry - whether it be employers or employees - at this stage. We have a Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which has been working in this country for a long time. Having exhausted that one area of arbitration, we cannot endeavour to force the employers to pay even more money, upon threat of strikes. (Quorum formed) 
One of the many reasons why a lot of industry came to this country in the last few years was that people in other countries had confidence in the atmosphere here and in our cost structure. If we destroy that confidence with the continual disruption of industry we will lose a lot of the expected industry that might have come to this country. The workers whom we would like to see employed would certainly not be employed. That is a fact of life, and it can be shown right around the world. As I said, at this time I do not attempt to blame either the employers or the employees. We do need good leadership in industry today. This applies not only to employees but also to the employers. I had something to do with this type of operation before I came into this Parliament, and I have known many occasions when agreements should have been reached between the employers and the employees but could not be reached on a satisfactory basis. With good sound leadership which does not cause political strikes but which is intent upon getting better conditions for the employees and which does not achieve these ends in the political sphere, I believe that we will resolve many of these points that have been raised here tonight. It is imperative to see that the cost price spiral does not continue in the way in which it has been proceeding in the last  2  years. It is beyond this country to stand that sort of thing It is to be hoped that both the employers and the employees and all those involved in these matters in this country will settle down, get on with the job and continue to build this country in the manner in which we would like to see it built. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I refer to the nitrogen fertiliser subsidy of $80 per ton of nitrogen contained in natural sodium nitrate. Is the subsidy as designed at present intended to assist the primary producer and, if so, will the Minister give details of such advantages when taking into consideration both Australian manufactured and imported fertilisers? Is the Minister prepared to investigate and submit a report on the quality of Australian manufactured urea as against that manufactured overseas? 
-The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  has referred to the failure of the Government to deal with the crisis of growing unemployment. It is very difficult to understand this when one finds, on looking at all the figures and the knowledge that one has, that during the last 10 or 15 years there has been an almost total full employment situation in Australia. At this time, regardless of all the problems that are facing not only Australia but other parts of the world, we find that we have about 98.5 per cent of the people in this country employed. That is a very high percentage. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  did not refer principally to this subject but he referred to reconstruction and to things related to the rural industry. All his calamity howling destroys confidence in the work force of this country and destroys confidence in the economic structure of this country. But when the honourable member says that the reconstruction programme for rural industries in New South Wales is in trouble when in fact that State has not drawn from the Commonwealth the $18m which it can draw for reconstruction, this is an example of the calamity howling - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member has risen to take a point of order and if he does not take this point of order he can sit down. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The problem raised by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has several parts to it. This problem was brought about originally by the fixed price of gold and the increased cost of producing that gold. I believe a gold mining subsidy was first introduced to counter this initial aspect of the problem. Since that time there has been tremendous mining development in many places in the Commonwealth, particularly in Western Australia. Some of this development has been in the Kalgoorlie area. I instance the nickel development at Kambalda. As the costs of mining gold have risen in that area the problem has become more acute. As previous speakers have mentioned, it was thought that the mining development around this goldmining area would in fact make employment available for those families which were being phased out of the goldmining industry. However, circumstances have changed somewhat in more recent years. As a result of the imposition by the United States of America of a 10 per cent surcharge and the general slow down in world trade there has been a considerable change in developments in the mineral world which has affected the future of mining in not only Western Australia but also other parts of the world. 
As I see it, this situation has to be looked at in the light of present circumstances. I come down on the point that the Government has said that it is going to reassess its views of the situation on the basis of the case put forward by the goldmining industry and people involved in this field. T take it that this reassessment will be made on the circumstances as they exist at present. These circumstances are changing day by day. 1 think it is important for a reassessment to be made at this point of time in order to level out the thinking about what is in fact taking place at the moment in not only this gold fields town itself but also in the whole field of mining. I think the mining field must be taken as a whole. It is obvious that the goldmining industry is going to be phased out. I believe that the people in this industry recognise this. As the Government has said, it is in fact carrying out a reassessment of the situation in this industry at the present time. This reassessment is necessary because the circumstances have changed considerably over recent months. 
It was expected of course, that the people phased out of employment in the various goldmining areas would be in fact taken up within the other areas of mining in Western Australia. It .is important to remember that people who are trained in the mining industry and who are lost to the industry are difficult to replace. I am sure that the Government will take into consideration the possibility of a slackening off in the development of the nickel industry. Kalgoorlie, which is the major centre of the goldmining industry in Western Australia, has been on the map of this country for a long time. It has produced a large quantity of gold. Figures on this aspect have always been . available. They have been published in the report mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that was put out by the  President  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia,  Mr Brodie-Hall.  These figures have been well tabulated. The goldmining industry has contributed over a number of years to this country's wellbeing. This sort of changing scene in Australia at the moment is to be found in not only the mining areas but also in many other areas - for example, the agricultural area and the industrial area. It is therefore necessary to look at this matter on a broad basis across the whole of Australia to see where we are in fact going. 
A tremendous amount of private capital has been invested in the mining field in Western Australia. There are people who say that nothing is being done about decentralisation in Australia. I would like those people to take a trip to Western Australia and see just what is being done about decentralisation. Whole new towns have been developed in various parts of that State. Private industry has spent tremendous sums of money-it has been assisted by government, of course - in the development of many centres throughout Western Australia. It is in this light that one must look at the future of Kalgoorlie and where it fits into the total mining scene in Western Australia. I believe that, in the light of the circumstances prevailing in Western Australia at this time, the Government should, in the assessment it is undertaking, bring to the fore the facts as they exist at the present time. Nobody, however good he may be, can look into the future and define exactly what is going to happen. But information is of course available to the Government today of developments around the world, such as currency developments, manufacturing developments and so on, which should enable it to assess to some extent what the future holds - the near future, at least - for the mining industries in general in conjunction with the other industries in Australia. The Government should then be able to assess the overall effect the present situation will have on not only Kalgoorlie as a city, as I think it is, but also the people who reside therein, who are also in my book important. I believe that when that assessment is made and the Government comes to a conclusion about the overall situation as it affects the total mining situation the people affected no doubt will be taken into consideration. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111246_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

I refer to the land position in developmental areas in Sydney. I am quoting these figures from the report of the Housing Industry Association: dated August 1971. The cost of a block of land at Penrith in 1969 was $2,500. It has risen in 1971 to $6,000. This is an increase in 3 years of 140 per cent. In Blacktown the cost of land has risen by 97 per cent in 3 years. The cost of land at Campbelltown has risen by 168 per cent in 3 years. This increase in land costs reflects the policy of this Government on this subject. If time were available to mc I would deal in more detail with the subject but I wish to refer to some of the social aspects which are involved in housing. The State housing authorities with the assistance of the Commonwealth Government should be dealing with the problems involved. They are not dealing with those problems. 
In my amendment, 1 refer to the question of low income, earners. I spoke about those people who are called 'no-hopers'. We have problems with migrants as well as with Aborigines, deserted wives and others. I commented earlier that CommonwealthState housing agreements have been in operation since 1945. Until the recent study of the State housing authorities by  Dr M.  A. Jones, these agreements had not been subjected to much scrutiny in terms of their goals as social policy and in terms of the degree to which they have satisfied these goals. 

 Dr Jones's thesis, 'The Role of the Australian State Housing Authorities in Low Income Housing', earned him the award of a degree of doctor of philosophy from the Australian National University.  Dr Jones  argues that the State housing authorities in practice distinguish between the 'deserving' and the 'undeserving' poor in the allocation of public housing, with the undeserving poor being largely excluded from benefiting from State housing. He concentrated on specific social problems, for example, that State housing programmes effectively exclude those in all categories of the undeserving poor. This Bill does not deal with the problems examined by  Dr Jones. 
One major group amongst the undeserving poor is families who, because of their social instability or their tendency to fall into rental arrears, are excluded from public housing. These are the 'problem' families who frequent public and voluntary welfare agencies with a variety of social disabilities, such as alcoholism, children at risk, employment instability, marital problems and so on. A reasonable argument can be advanced in favour of the policy by which State housing authorities exclude problem families from public housing. As far as people in rental arrears are concerned, the housing authorities have to service their capital and regular payment of rent is necessary for this to be carried out. I might say that $ 1.25m does not meet this commitment. As the Minister knows, it is costing in excess of $4m a year now. 
It can be argued with respect to the social problems of these families that housing authorities are not social welfare agencies and are not organised to solve the social disabilities of problem families. It is unfair that other public housing tenants should be required to put up with the nuisance created by problem families. However, this position does not cut across the fact that problem families have, or can have, an acute housing problem in addition to their other problems - the Bill does not solve that problem - and that under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement these families are effectively excluded from receiving public assistance with their housing problem. That is to say, all that the present situation tells us is that public housing authorities are an unsuitable vehicle for assisting problem families with their housing needs. The further question of whether or not these families should be dented public assistance with housing is left untouched. . 
One possible answer to the question is to the effect that these people are only 'nohopers' anyway, and are undeserving of assistance:, they will not do anything to help themselves. A contrary point of view is that these people are very often in their present situation for reasons beyond their control, and that they have a special call upon community support and assistance. If this viewpoint is adopted, and if it is also accepted that public housing authorities are not the appropriate vehicle for helping problem families with their housing needs, it is necessary to evolve new forms of assistance for these families with their housing problems. It is about time that the Commonwealth itself met these commitments. What appears necessary is extensive research into the housing difficulties of problem families and into possible mechanisms whereby public assistance can be provided in order to overcome difficulties. 
Another group of undeserving poor who receive little, or rather, no assistance from State housing authorities are 'skid row' style single men. State housing authorities have a general policy of not providing assistance to single people below pensionable age; even if they did accept single people below that age, they would still exclude 'derelict' single men on social grounds. On the size of this problem, one finding reveals that there are approximately 2,500 such single men in Melbourne at any one time, for example. These men are often quite literally homeless, apart from an occasional night in a shelter for homeless men. If they have some income they are likely to be housed in sub-standard accommodation. These people have an acute housing need but, as with problem families, their housing need is inseparable from their complex of other social problems. 
Amongst the deserving poor, there are also some groups who are not particularly well- served by present public housing policies. One important such group is southern European migrants, who are under represented amongst those in public housing accommodation. This situation obtains even though there is no discrimination against these migrants in the allocation of public housing. The explanation of the situation is to be found in the fact that these migrants are heavily dependent upon their ethnic sub-culture and are 18th to be dispersed indiscriminately within public housing areas. These migrants find strong social needs to live amongst their extended families, friend* ft om their former village, ethnic shopping facilities, theatres and clubs, and to accept public housing would involve the breaking of these many social bonds. They need low cost housing but unfortunately very many of them have insufficient money to afford new or relatively new housing, together with the long term, relatively low interest mortgages associated with such housing. Instead they are forced to buy old, inner suburban housing, for which normally they are forced to obtain finance from finance companies at high interest rates and over relatively short terms. I take as an example the fringe banking institutions. Some of these fringe banking institutions charge interest rates in excess of 10 per cent fiat which is about 20 per cent reducible. 
Southern European migrants want public assistance with their housing problems. An alternative approach is to accept that social and cultural differences exist between various nationalities, that these differences are strongly rooted and perform a socially very important role, and that social policies should take them into account rather than ignore them. If this second approach is accepted, it would be necessary to research the housing problems of migrants in some depth - this has not been done in this legislation or in other  legislation  by this Commonwealth Government - with a view to formulating mechanisms whereby assistance can be provided for them. One possible mechanism would be to make provision for other sources of finance for the purchase of old inner suburban housing than those which are presently available. This is a pressing problem. The Melbourne poverty survey found that high repayments for housing was an extremely important factor in precipitating migrants into poverty. A further important factor in migrant housing is that southern European migrants have made a very important contribution to the renewal of inner suburban areas, through extensive renovation of the housing stock and the shopping centres, and have also halted the population decline in those areas; but this has led them into assuming considerable financial burdens. 1 ask: Why is the Commonwealth housing authority, in co-operation with the States, not used to purchase already existing terrace housing in inner suburban areas, particularly the inner suburban areas of Sydney and Melbourne, for renovation and letting, leasing or sale to immigrants or other people? The manner in which Aborigines are treated and the high rentals they have to pay for housing is also worthy of consideration by the Government. A congregation of Aborigines is living under terrible conditions in houses in Redfern which should be acquired by the State and renovated and leased back to those Aborigines. They should be examining housing in all areas. Some fresh thinking is necessary but none is forthcoming on the part of the Government. No real examination is being made of the social problems which exist in our community. The priorities which this Government has adopted insofar as the welfare of the community is concerned have been very poor indeed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
Pursuant to statute I. present the following paper: 
Audit Act - Supplementary report to the Auditor-General upon other accounts (or year ended 30th June 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The Bill before the House will make an additional $30m available to the Australian Wool Commission which was set up by the Commonwealth Government some 12 months ago. Since that time, as the House well knows, a considerable sum of money has been made available to the Commission for the purpose of buying wool where this has been found necessary by the Commission. Other measures have been taken by the Government to assist the wool industry over its difficult period during the last 12 months when many things have happened-. To this Bill before the House the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, has moved an amendment. Before moving on to that amendment I would say that the Act which was introduced into this House last year to enable the setting up of the Commission was introduced under the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth of Australia. The Commission was set up for the purpose of putting a buyer into the market, which is the only power in relation to this type of exercise which the Commonwealth had under the Constitution. 
The Australian Labor Party tonight introduced an amendment to this Bill which would, if carried, have the effect of setting aside the $30m and therefore not making it available to the Australian Wool Commission. It also seeks to establish a marketing authority. It would be entirely unconstitutional for this Parliament to set up such an authority without complementary legislation being passed by the 6 Australian States. Under the Australian Constitution the States have powers relating to commodities produced within the States, and they have the sole power. The Commonwealth does not have power. in that regard. That is why, when legislating for schemes such as the Australian wool or wheat stabilisation plan, it has been necessary to have complementary legislataion passed by the States. Otherwise the Commonwealth legislation would be declared null and void by the High Court. This is the Australian Labor Party's entire rural plan. It is an amendment which, in a nutshell, proposes to set up an appraisement scheme to market the entire wool clip. Those words alone would make it unconstitutional, if there were solely Commonwealth legislation. 
In proposing this amendment the honourable member for Dawson, whom I cannot see in the chamber at the moment, but whom  i  do not think I am misquoting, said that this amendment was exactly what the wool industry was asking for at this time. The Australian Wool Industry Conference at its meeting on 25th and 26th November 1971 - only a few days ago - passed certain resolutions. I shall read out for the purposes of this debate exactly what was resolved unanimously by that body which represents the 2 major wool growing organisations in Australia. On the subject of a wool marketing authority the AWIC resolved: 
That this Conference recommend to Govern  ment: 
That the functions of the AWC and AWB be now  co-ordinated  by amalgamation under one directorate to form an Australian Wool Marketing Authority to which is appointed a full-time chairman of proven ability. The directorate should be smaller in number than the 2 boards combined. 
That the Authority be given the widest possible powers 1o co-ordinate and control at total marketing of the Australian clip. 
That sale by objective measurement and sample combined with maximum transport, handling and marketing economy facilitated by such selling method be phased in from the opening of the 1972-73 wool selling season and that the various bodies working on transport., handling and marketing on the basis of objective measurement immediately be brought together to co-ordinate lnc logistics of the operation. 
That  this Conference agrees thai  wmc  form of acquisition may b necesary to achieve  the-e  economies. 
Th:u international  co-ordination  of  wool  marketing be sough!. 
Thai it is implicit in all  there  proposals thai adequate  consulation  take place wilh industry organisations.  1 can  well  imagine the wool industry pulling forward those proposals as a broad outline on which to base the future of  the  Austraiian wool industry. But, of course, it is nesessary to write into many of these proposals  the  terms and conditions of any scheme;  the  price at which the product, if acquired, will  be  acquired; who will finance  the  scheme if the product  is going to  be acquired:  and  who will back it if it  is  going to bc acquired. The States would have to agree to  any  such scheme - otherwise it would  be  thrown out by the High Court.  The  Commonwealth Government would not introduce  such  legislation knowing full well  that  this would happen. I am pleased to  note that  the  honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who I understand has had  legal  training, is indicating to me by  way  of nodding his head that what I am saying  is  perfectly correct. 
A lot of work has to be done prior to the bringing forward of legislation to acquire the total Australian wool clip if that is what the industry wants, and I believe it is. The assistance of the Government also has to be obtained. I am sure that the Government will assist the wool industry in every way possible to draw up the terms and conditions of such a scheme and that when that has been done it will endeavour to obtain the agreement of the States to the proposal at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting. But it is quite wrong to say that we will not support the amendment which has been proposed. We cannot support it because it is quite unconstitutional. lt was mentioned in an earlier debate this evening that the members of the Australian Country Party were not very concerned about freight rates. Wool which is sold under the present system of marketing wool - the auction system - does not belong to the wool grower at the point of shipping; it belongs to the person who has purchased it somewhere along the line. So the wool growers of Australia have no control whatsoever over this situation; it is completely out of the hands of the wool growers themselves. But it may be taken into consideration if certain things are done in relation to a total marketing scheme. 
A matter which is not referred to tonight but which I have mentioned in this House previously and which is one of the most important issues to be considered is the future of the wool stores in this country. These stores, which have been owned by the wool growers themselves for 20 or 30 years, are free of debt. In my book they should have been turned over to the Australian Wool Commission immediately it was set up. Some honourable members have spoken about what happened 20 years ago. At that time tremendous pressure was brought to bear on certain authorities in the wool glowing areas of Australia to get rid of the stores, but these efforts were unsuccessful. We won that battle. But it was laid down at that time that immediately there was any change in the method of handling the Australian wool clip these wool stores should revert to the authority in charge of that method of handling. In my book that authority today is the Australian Wool Commission, if there is any change they should 'bc passed on to the new authority which is handling the Australian wool clip. There would be no reason to use any other stores once these stores were made available to the Commission, which should be immediately the leases which are now held do terminate. That is one area which must be looked at because the storage of wool is an expensive operation, although it should not be. At present 286 stores of about an acre apiece belong to the wool growers of Australia and they are free of debt. An examination of the report of. the Australian Wool Board will show that the stores throughout Australia brought in between $2m and $3m in rental during the last 12 months, which indicates what these properties are worth. 
As I have said, any marketing plan in the future, as in the past, needs finance of some sort. I should have thought that the right financing authority in this case would be the Reserve Bank of Australia, which is used by other authorities for this purpose. There is a section of the Reserve Bank from which money can be borrowed for this particular purpose. Several hundreds of millions of dollars are borrowed each year by wheat authorities and other authorities. If that source of finance is not available there could be some problems in obtaining finance, but J do not think that there will be any. With the confidence which I have in woolI have no doubt that there is money available around the world which will finance the Commission today. The wool industry is looking to the Commission to take control of the situation. I have no doubt that this money can be obtained from overseas. 
I believe that the future prospects for wool are, in fact, quite good. The industry is in trouble at the moment. Looking at the real core of the trouble 1 see no danger in the future. 1 could be wrong. I ask honourable members to look at all other raw materials -I think this is the basic test of most things in this world today - which are being fed into factories in one form or another. I am referring not only to textiles but also to all other commodities. Honourable members will find that the wool which is being fed into the factories today is about the cheapest raw material in the world. The situation is rather fantastic. 
As I think I have mentioned in this place before, 35 per cent of the cost of a finished steel product is represented by the raw material, steel. When one looks at the wool being fed into the factories today, one sees that it is very cheap. In 1961 the raw material in a man's woollen suit represented 8 per cent of the cost of the finished product. Similarly in a lady's frock the raw woo! represented 6 per cent of the total cost. In 1968 - this is a Japanese assessment - the raw material in a man's woollen suit represented 5.7 per cent of the finished product. Today one can make one's own calculation as to what the percentage is. It would be about 3 per cent or 4 per cent. No other commodity can come anywhere near that percentage today. 
It is also interesting to note -I should have mentioned this matter before - what is happening in relation to the utilisation of the funds made available to the Commission today. We know that at the beginning of this wool buying season the Wool Commission was buying quite heavily. This was a pretty normal reaction from what we know about the wool industry, about trading around the world and about what the buyers, the blokes in the middle, wanted to do. But this buying has dropped substantially. There is very little wool in the pipeline. There is a little wool in Australia. At the wool sales held on 23rd November 1971 at both Melbourne and Newcastle some 32,752 bales were offered. It is interesting to note that the Commission bought in about 11.8 per cent. The quantity passed in was 3.2 per cent and the trade took 85 per cent. That is a much improved situation which indicates that the buyers from around the world are coming to the market place to buy the wool and the position is improving. Obviously if one takes out of the pipeline wool which would be speculators' wool today at a cheap rate, that improves the situation. 
Whatever happens, it is important that we do not give an inch. If we do the whole situation will collapse. The position must be kept going until such time as other marketing arrangements are established. It has been mentioned that the Commission has some 700.000 bales of wool. People mention that figure as if it were a tremendous amount of wool. Goodness gracious me, how much is that on the world scene or even in Australian figures? After the last war 3 producing countries held stocks amounting to 10 million bales. Everybody said: 'You will never sell it'. 
But of course we did. The price did not slop going up until the last bale was sold. The then authority was dismissed and the industry gol back on to this so-called free enterprise basis which has been mentioned tonight. The industry has been in trouble ever since. 1 shall refer to one other matter which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  mentioned.  He likes private enterprise and free enterprise. We are trying to maintain free enterprise, the free enterprise of 100,000 wool growers and not of a few blokes elsewhere in the wool industry. But how can 100,000 wool growers sell fo a handful of buyers overseas? That is just not real life. A matter which has been of some concern to me is the Press statements made in regard to assistance for the wool industry. Let me refer to some of the comments in the Press after it was announced that a loan of $30m would be made available to the Wool Commission. A headline, appearing in the 'Age' reads: S30m loan props up wool'. I have a fair idea of what that paper has it) mind in regard to the words 'props up'. A headline in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' reads: Government lends $30m more to prop wool'. A headline in the 'Daily Telegraph' reads: 'Fresh $30m hand-out to buy in wool', lt is not a hand-out. If the Government chooses to use this form of assistance then it is a Government decision to make available money on loan, on which interest is to be paid, as I understand the situation. .It is a good business proposition under the present circumstances to lend money to the Commission to buy in wool for resale at a later date. Wool is one of the best collaterals in the world and it always has been. The cost of storing wool is. very minute compared with other commodities of which there has been a surplus. 
I would like to have had more time to refer to many other matters. 1 would like to refer to what many industries have been through in recent years. We should take note of this. For example, let me deal with the sugar industry. I have with me some articles in regard to this industry but I have not sufficient time in this debate to read them. A few years ago the sugar industry was lent Si 9m and the Press followed up with headlines On the problems of the sugar industry. An international agreement was reached and I believe that since that agreement the position of the sugar industry has improved considerably. That industry had its problems. The dairy industry went through a phase in which there was a surplus of butter throughout the world, mainly in the European Economic Community. I recall all the things that were written about what would happen to the dairy industry and what should be done. What is the position in this industry today? Butter, surpluses have disappeared. I think I am correct in saying that Australia is not able to fulfil its own commitments. 
There we are. In the wheat industry a few years ago there was a terrific surplus of wheat and everybody was screaming out at the top of his voice about what would happen to the wheat industry, lt was a calamity. We took charge of the situation and the industry itself came forward with a plan. At various times the Government had made loans to that industry amounting to $400m, $600m and al one stage, I think, $700m. What is the position today in respect of this industry? The last reference which I saw in the Press was that one of the leading representatives in Australia was concerned that we would not have enough wheat. The wool industry today is in the same position as those industries were in many years ago. Let us stand up to the world situation and the home situation and do the right thing. This is the intention of this Bill. 
Thursday, 2 December 1971 
I remind the honourable member for Wentworth that the House is debating 3 States Grants Bills and 1 ask him to confine his remarks to those Bills. 
Convinced that increased population is vital to the future development of Australia, the Australian Labor Party will support and uphold a vigorous and expanding immigration programme administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance. 
This year, however, the Federal Conference of the Labor Party dropped this key part of policy like a hot brick. It reversed a generation of united Australian endeavour. It now merely supports an immigration policy which is administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance, which shall include the avoidance of discrimination on any grounds of race or colour of skin or nationality. The Labor Party not only wants to cut immigration but also to limit the natural growth of the Australian population. According to a report by  Mr Wallace  Brown in the 'Courier Mail' of 25th June, it also decided to adopt as policy, free family planning clinics, free contraception, legal advertising of contraceptives, free child care centres and a public investigation to determine the best way to encourage small families. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker should not allow to be intruded into this debate a speech that someone was prevented from making during a debate yesterday. 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! I ask the honourable member for Wentworth to confine his remarks to the Bills before the House. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! I ask the honourable member for Mitchell to address his remarks to the Chair and I also remind honourable members that interjections are out of order. 
Daly) went over to congratulate the honourable member for Kingston it took him quite a long time before he proffered his hand to shake hands with the honourable member for Grayndler. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  I am sure, will not deny that he walked to the door and came back again. 1 saw him do so. When I was giving evidence before , the Committee J. was meticulous to ensure that 1 did not make a misstatement, or utter an untruth. I tried to be very careful. I did not .want to name the person who said: 'We walked out' because after 8 weeks I was not positive about it. But there was a journalist in the gallery, or in the precincts of the House, who says that 2 Labor members said to him: 'We walked out'. That person was Mungo McCallum. Of his own volition, he approached  Mr  David McNicoll. in company with  Mr Baudino,  and offered to make a statutory declaration to the effect that 2 members of the Labor Party said that it was a *walkout' or that they had 'walked out'. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that egg producers throughout Australia have requested that legislation be introduced to control production? It is also a fact that the Victorian Government has refused to accept the recommendations of the producers? Can the Minister advise the House of the present position and can he also say. when the State representatives will be called together with the object of resolving the position? 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry indicate the present position in relation to Australia's exports of meat to the United States of America? Can he indicate whether or not Australia is to be subject to a quota, as has been the case in the past, and what that quota will be? 
Is the motion seconded? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the proposed conduction of a naval facility al Garden Island in Western Australia. In view of the report in yesterday's 'West Australian' that the Acting Minister for the Navy said that the Government was keeping the question of public access to Garden Island under continuing review, can the Prime Minister further clarify the position? 
ls it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to recent discussions with the States in which the Commonwealth has agreed to make further special revenue assistance, available to the States. During such discussions and agreements have any arrangements been made that would enable local government bodies to receive a proportion of the, funds being made available by the Commonwealth? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the results of a gallup poll conducted in February 1972 which indicated that the majority of Australians wish to preserve a 40- hour working week? What action does the Government propose to take in respect of any claims which may be made to reduce working hours in furtherance of the policies for the early introduction of a shorter working week adopted by the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions? 
The Public Service Arbitration Bill which is before the House tonight deals with and concerns the Commonwealth Public Service. The Public Service has a very important function. It is very important to all Australians in their everyday life because its operations affect everybody in Australia. It is important that every country builds up a good public service because without good public service, we do not have good government; it is impossible. It is a government's responsibility to see that the public service of the country operates in an efficient manner. It is my belief that in Australia we have many capable and efficient public servants. Ours is a public service which has been built up over the years, which is efficient in many areas and which we must continue to build and protect. It is the Government's reponsibility to build a public service, protect it and take the responsibility for it. 
This Bill deals with that matter because of certain things which have happened in recent years within certain areas of the Public Service. This is an unfortunate situation for the total scene within the Public Service. What amazes me in relation to the debate is that the Australian Labor Party apparently intends to vote against this Bill. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  who led for the ALP indicated this to the House. But if I remember correctly he did not indicate that the Opposition intended to move any amendments. So I take it that the Opposition will not move any amendments to the Bill, although it is opposing it. It amazes me that although the ALP claims to endorse the principles of conciliation and arbitration on this occasion it intends to vote against a Bill which, in fact, deals with that section of industry and endeavours to settle disputes in a sound way through an arbitrator. That is what the Bill deals with mainly. 
As f have said, there has been considerable trouble in recent times in certain areas of the Public Service. In the main, it has been in the largest section of the Public Service amongst the 100,000 to 110,000 employed in the Postmaster-General's Department. The Bill is designed to deal with this situation and to give all sections involved in this area an opportunity to meet together and settle the disputes instead of allowing them to continue. That is reasonable enough. This is a process which is accepted by most Australians. Apparently it is a process which is accepted by the ALP although it intends to vote against this Bill. I cannot understand this. It has been said in the debate tonight by one of the members of the ALP that most of the disputes are settled on the factory floor. Perhaps this is true to some extent. Many disputes are settled on the factory floor. But there are many disputes that are not settled on the factory floor. It is in these areas where there is no particular machinery to handle a dispute that it continues and becomes larger in the area it covers as the days go by. 
It is because of this situation within the Public Service that this Bill is being introduced this evening. There is nothing in the Bill which is not acceptable to the Australian people and I believe that it will be acceptable to the majority of public servants. Over the years the Public Service has grown considerably. It is possibly because of the growth of the Public Service and its increased complexities that from time to time certain legislation must be introduced to deal with situations as they arise. That is what is happening on this occasion. 
In the Postmaster-General's Department in recent times disputes have affected many people who have been most concerned that apparently no machinery existed which could effectively deal with the situation. They were concerned that disputes were allowed to continue over long periods without the Government or anybody else doing something about it. That situation should not be allowed to persist. The public of Australia would not allow it to continue. They would be very vocal in their protests if the Government did not move, through introducing a Bill such as we have before us now, to deal with the situation. 
This Bill gives an opportunity to public servants, employers and the Minister to take steps when they consider that a dispute is impending. It is fair enough for everybody concerned and for the life of me I cannot understand why the Labor Party has refused to accept this Bill. If legislation is not introduced to deal with this situation we can look forward to a continuation of events of recent years. The numbers of disputes within the Public Service which have not been dealt with speedily in recent years have increased so it is obvious that the present machinery is not sufficient to cope. Shall we move as a Parliament to do something about it? Shall we bring in legislation in an effort to deal with the situation which is arising or shall the people of Australia be held to ransom as they have been treated in recent times? 
I set out in this speech to say that the Public Service is the responsibility of government and the Government has seen fit to bring in legislation to deal with the situation. If it had not so acted it would have been failing in its duty. I believe that it is doing the correct thing. This machinery legislation is acceptable to Australia because it provides for resort to an arbitrator. That type of machinery is even acceptable to the Labor Party, although it will not accept this Bill. I believe, as 1 said earlier, that it will be acceptable to the majority of public servants in Australia. They are very capable and efficient people who work in that particular area. It is also my belief that the majority of workers in this country, whether within the Public Service or outside it, do not want to go on strike. They want machinery with which to solve their problems. Any member of the Labor Party who thinks that I have not had something to do with this sort of situation is mistaken, because I spent many years in this field. 
I believe that the workers of this country want to continue working. They do not want to go on strike. The families of workers certainly do not want to see their men on strike in any way whatever because strikes bring severe hardships to many people. In this area it is the responsibility of the Government to see that legislation is brought down to deal with the situation. I have said in this House previously that it is the responsibility not only of the workers in the private sector but also of employers to abide by legislation, Commonwealth and State, and to get together to solve problems which arise from time to time. It is inevitable that problems will arise and the. workers are not always to blame. Do not worry about that. I have seen it before. All sections can be blamed when certain things happen. 
It is everybody's responsibility to assist in the working of legislation that is required to deal with this situation. The Government is facing up to its responsibilities and bringing forward the necessary legislation. All sections of the Public Service, employers, employees and the Government must play their part in seeing that disruption does not come about. Australia, or for that matter any other country, cannot afford disruption in industry. We have come a long way in recent years. We can still go a long way. We owe it to the country and the people to continue with the job ahead of us. We cannot do that if industry and management, either in the Public Service or in the private sector, do not have the machinery to deal with the various situations. We want to avoid the, problems that have arisen in Britain and the United States in recent times because of strikes which are very damaging not only to the general economy but also to every man, woman and child in the country. They all suffer and the responsibility rests heavily in all spheres, because the Government cannot resolve the position entirely. It must have the support of all people involved. 
This legislation provides for application to be made to an arbitrator. He can call immediately a conference of all the parties concerned. This is the object of the exercise. If there is a problem within an area and it cannot be solved in the normal way, the parties concerned can apply to the arbitrator to call a conference. What better way is there than to have this machinery to bring the parties to the table to discuss all angles with the arbitrator? What is fairer than that all sections shall be called in to solve their problems together? What happens if this machinery is not available? A chaotic situation will develop, as has happened in recent times. This must be avoided, especially in large organisations such as the Postmaster-General's Department. 
Transport is one of the most important industries in any country. If for some reason transport in a country is disrupted in any shape or form, everybody suffers. The great strikes which have occurred recently in the United States have demonstrated that point. Our problems in this field are perhaps minor when compared with those which have arisen in other parts of the world, but our Post Office and communications systems have been damaged by strikes. Almost every citizen in the country is disadvantaged to some extent when such strikes occur. This was evident when certain telephones were not repaired by the Postal Department. Many hundreds of businessmen throughout the country suffered very heavily financially. The country suffers as a whole. The responsibility therefore rests firstly with the Government. The Government has played its part in bringing forward legislation to deal with the situation, but the responsibility also rests with all sections of the community. The Public Service must also face up to its duty in dealing with problems which arise. We want to see the Public Service of this country continue to build itself into a machine which is efficient and capable, and which serves the people of Australia in the way that it was designed to serve them. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="077131197204121_62_2.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from information contained in 'Quarterly Summary of Overseas Trade Statistics to 30 June 1971' and Statistics of Western Australia, Summary from 1829 to 1969' issued by the Deputy Commonwealth Statistician, Perth. 
Turning to another matter very briefly, I draw attention to the fact that after a long delay the Government has agreed to find $2.5m to enable the State Shipping Service to continue its run to Darwin. If this had not been provided the State would have had no alternative but to discontinue this service from Wyndham to Darwin. This is a valuable addition to assist the State Shipping Service but it will not provide adequate financial assistance. Western Australia had asked for a subsidy of $475,000 per annum to help offset the Darwin loss which amounts to $715,000 annually. The State ships operated at a loss of $4.5m last year. It must be remembered that the State Shipping Service is inseparable from the big problem of northern development. It should be the subject of a special annual Commonwealth grant which takes into account its varying costs and circumstances. There is no other service in Australia with which its costs can be compared. The service was not established to make a profit. Private enterprise would not be interested in providing such a service because there is not a profit in it, but it is an essential service for the north of Western Australia and also for the port of Darwin in the Northern Territory. Throughout its 57 years of existence the State Shipping Service has always held that its main job is to make life better for the people of the north. Its freights and fares have been kept comparatively low as a result. It carries about 3 times as much cargo northwards as it carries southwards and this accounts for a considerable portion of its losses. To charge fully economic freights would mean an unacceptable increase in northern living costs which would affect the rate of progress in the north. 
Dealing with the problems of Commonwealth and State financial relations as a whole and looking ahead we can see that the economy will need more public expenditure by the States if the problem of a rapidly growing population is to be met and if the development of our resources is ti be adequate and vigorous. It is essential that the Commonwealth Government, the State governments and their local authorities should co-operate in framing a constructive plan for a much higher rate of economic and social development. The Commonwealth should be moving towards a national concept in which specific target rates will be set for public investment to meet the needs of the State. 
During last year the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  introduced a measure to increase the size of the Tariff Board to enable it to deal with certain matters within that organisation. The object of that exercise was to endeavour to speed up the activities of the Board so that it could deal with many of the items which are at present on its plate. The. Minister on this occasion has brought forward another document which increases from 9 to 11 the members of the Tariff Board to enable the Board to speed up even further its handling of tariff matters. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  came into this House this afternoon and complained bitterly that he had not had an opportunity to discuss these matters in the House and he spent the entire 15 minutes allocated to him condemning the 2 Ministers involved and the Government in general and spent little or not time actually debating the matter which is now before us. 
The. Minister for Trade and Industry is leaving, I think today, to attend an important meeting in Chile at which representatives from most countries will be in attendance. This meeting will endeavour actively to solve some of the greatest problems in the world in relation to food supplies and the distribution of those food supplies throughout the world. This is a most important international meeting to which the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry in the Australian Parliament has gone to endeavour to lend his weight to attempt to solve this problem of food supplies. He did not want to leave, because he has responsibilities in this House but obviously he. appreciates the tremendous responsbilities which face Australia and other countries today in dealing with the distribution of food throughout the world. That is where be has gone and that is what he is doing. Any man who comes into this House and condemns a senior Minister for attending a meeting of this nature in some other part of the world does not really realise the situation that exists throughout the world today. This Minister has a responsibility and he is carrying out his responsibility not only in Australia but also on the world scene. He will continue to do this. 
In relation to Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, the Minister for Trade and Industry has been discussing the. future of Australian trade. He has been negotiating with the British. As is mentioned in this document, with which we are dealing, tariffs are an important problem. The British are still dealing with this subject. In the meantime, what have the Government, the Minister for Trade and Industry and the former Minister for Trade and Industry been doing in relation to these matters? They have been negotiating around the world over many years to diversify Australia's trade. If one care.d to study the facts of life - this is what the honourable member for Riverina should do - he would see what has been done in diversifying Australia's trade around the world. The Australian Labor Party, of course, knows about the trade agreement which has been made with Japan. An examination of these matters will reveal what has been done for Australia in diversification of our trade and what has been done to assist our meat exports to America. Of all the meat which is imported in:0 America from other parts of the world, 50 per cent is Australian meat. These are the things which have been going on. These are the things which are important in relation to Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. These are the things which the present Minister for Trade and Industry and his predecessor have been doing over the years when they have gone overseas on various missions to tackle these problems. 
The Government has not been sitting and doing nothing about the British entry into the EEC. lt has been actively operating in many parts of the world to diversify Australian trade and it will continue to do so. I am not going to stand here and reel off figures. This has been done and it is on the record. It is known to most people in the world who are actually involved in trading activities, because they know where their trade is going. They know of the assistance which the Ministers for Trade and Industry and this Government have given to the traders of the world in diversifying their trading operations. It is only a few years ago that the majority of Australian trade was between Australia, the British and the Continent in general. Today, that is not the case at all. In fact, most of our trade is in the Pacific area. We also trade all round the world. Only quite recently it was announced that Australia has sold wheat to South America. Wheat is sold to the Middle East and, as I have mentioned, meat in the form of livestock and every other form also goes to the Middle East. Meat is sold to the Pacific countries. We have not been idle in these matters. It is not right for members to come in and criticise this Government and the Minister for Trade ad Industry as they have done this afternoon and to say that nothing has been done. A great deal has been achieved and although I admit that a lot remains to be done I have no doubt that this will be done. 
The measures before the House in relation to the tariff are acceptable to the House, or, at all events, to this side of the House and to the Australian people. The people wanted some action on these important matters of trade. They wanted action to see that the tariff decisions which have been taken over the last 30-odd years are brought up to date. This is a marathon programme but the Minister for Trade and Industry has realised this fact and has increased the personnel of the Tariff Board to deal with this situation. If the new arrangement is not satisfactory and if the number of members of the Tariff Board has not been increased sufficiently, I have no doubt that other methods will be introduced to speed up this process. It is important that the Tariff Board be brought up to date so that it will be able to handle the problems of diversification of trade around Australia about which 1 have been talking and because of many other factors in relation to the economic situation not only in Australia but also in other parts of the world with which we trade. The Tariff Board should be put in a position whereby it can deal with these matters which have been lying around for some time. This is the object of this exercise and this is another attempt by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Government to solve this problem. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. What progress has been made towards the establishment of a task force in Western Australia? 
The Australian Labor Party has introduced for discussion in this House this afternoon a matter of public importance, namely, the alleged failure of the Government lo encourage and maintain the progressive exploration of Australian oil resources. I find the criticism offered by the Opposition and some of the statements made this afternoon by honourable members on the other side somewhat difficult to understand. In relation to the Government's role in the exploration of oil and gas in this country, I think it was only in 1959 that a Bill was introduced into this House which gave assistance in this field of exploration. Despite the few years in which Australia has in fact been involved in this project of finding oil, we find that at this point of time approximately 65 per cent of Australia's requirements is being met from local supplies. This, in my book, is quite a good record on the part of the Government, the Australian people and those who have assisted in this exercise. We do use, comparatively, in this mechanised world of ours, a lot of crude oil. The fact that 65 per cent of our requirements comes from local supplies is very encouraging. in relation to some of the statements made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  referred to this - 1 really could not believe my ears and I think we should put this on the record. The honourable member said that the price of crude oil now being produced in Australia from certain fields was in fact too low. I took particular note of his remarks and 1 wrote this down. He said that it was too low and that a Labor government would increase it. That means that should Labor come to power it would increase the price of crude which is set by an agreement which is in force until 1975, if my memory serves me correctly. Then the honourable member for Dawson said that an increase in the price of crude oil would not necessarily mean that there would be an increase in the cost of petrol to the public, because a Labor government would appoint a prices commissioner. I think that the Minister for Customs and Excise also dealt with this point. 
But a prices commissioner has already been appointed and is operating under a Labor Government in South Australia. If the Prices Commissioner in South Australia is doing his job properly, he would be taking all the relevant facts into consideration in setting the price of petrol, which he does each year. Even if a Labor government were to appoint another prices commissioner, the price of petrol would be exactly the same as it is today. Therefore, if the price of crude oil is increased, as members of the Labor Party this afternoon stated that it will be if a Labor government comes into power, obviously there will be an increase in the price of petrol to the consumers in Australia. Undoubtedly the Prices Commissioner in South Australia must take into consideration the basic price of crude oil paid by Australian refineries. Therefore, under the machinery that is already operating in this country, if the price of crude oil is increased, mere must be an automatic increase in the price of petrol to the consumer. Although the Minister for Customs and Excise mentioned that fact, I believe that it needs emphasising. It is important for the Australian people to realise that already there is an agreement covering the price of crude oil which will operate until 197S. Apparently if a Labor government comes into power this agreement will be altered. Honourable members opposite have state that they will increase the price of crude oil because of certain developments which are taking place in the Middle East, of which we are all well aware. This is rather staggering to me. 
I understood the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  to say that if a Labor government comes into power it will, as a government, explore for oil in Australia. Anybody who knows anything about the techniques involved in oil exploration would realise that the honourable member for Cunningham is treading on pretty dangerous ground if he thinks that the public would be pleased about the Government spending public money - taxation money - in searching for oil in Aus tralia. I remember when the first well was drilled at Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia some time ago. It was a lucky well and oil was found. Indeed, it was a very good sign for Australia. But I also remember what happened at that time. The Americans were in charge of the drilling, and there were 3 Americans and 2 Australians employed on each shift on the rig which found the oil. This was necessary because the techniques involved in finding oil in any country - whether it be Australia or elsewhere - are unique. 
Oil exploration is a very expensive and very technical operation. Americans were encouraged to come to Australia by the measures which the Government took in order to discover oil in this country, and in this way Australians were able to learn the techniques involved in oil exploration. Hundreds or thousands of millions of dollars are being spend around the world each year on oil exploration. It is a specialised job. It is a job for those who have been doing the work for many years. Overseas companies need to be encouraged to come to Australia to explore for oil, and this is being done. As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  spelt out this afternoon, over the years the Government has taken appropriate action to assist in oil exploration in Australia. 
It is necessary that we should discover oil in Australia because we have rapidly developing industry and rapidly developing transport facilities which are very important to the continued growth of Australia. Of course, oil plays a very important part in these developments. It is also important, as was mentioned this afternoon, for out balance of payments position. If the consumption of fuels in their various forms continues to increase in Australia - and I have no doubt that it will because of the mechanisation taking place not only in secondary industry but also in primary industry today - we will need to find great quantities of fuel oil in this country. We must remember that the cost of importing oil has an adverse effect on our balance of payments position. 
I believe that the measures which the Government has taken to encourage oil exploration in Australia have been successful. I believe that the figures indicate this. As the Minister for National Development mentioned this afternoon, I have no doubt that in the future the Government will have to consider introducing new measures, as well as continuing its present programmes for encouraging oil exploration in Australia. As has been mentioned, the Government is providing an additional $3. 3m each year under the oil exploration subsidy scheme. It is also providing taxation relief for those who invest money in oil exploration, and maybe the Government could do more in this area. At the present time we are acquiring from our own resources some 65 per cent of the oil required in Australia, and with the policy which the Government has adopted in order to encourage oil exploration within the nation, I feel sure that we will proceed in the right direction. 
There has been development not only in the oil area; we have seen tremendous development throughout Australia in the gas area. In my own State of Western Australia, and in other States as well, tremendous fields of gas have been discovered, and I do not believe that even those engaged in these operations at the present time really know the total amount of gas that might in fact be available from some of these fields. But this again is a long term project which requires the expenditure of many millions of dollars - in fact, many hundreds of millions of dollars - not only to find the gas, but also to develop it and to take it to the places where it is required, lt is only with the cooperation of others that this money can be found; it is only with the co-operation of others that the techniques can be perfected: and it is only with the co-operation of others that we will get this development in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. I refer to the census held in June 1971 and the availability of the results of that census as they relate to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Is it a fact that final figures have not as yet been made available? Is it also a fact that the Chief Electoral Officer has made numerous requests for the final figures but without result? Is it also a fact that the Chief Electoral Officer has not as yet issued a certificate? If this is so, will the Minister ensure that the figures are made available without further delay so that a certificate can be issued and thereby establish whether a redistribution is required in accordance with the Constitution? 
In 1971 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  introduced into this House the States Grant (Rural Reconstruction) Bill, which made available $100m to finance the rural reconstruction scheme. The statement which the Minister made in the House this month on rural reconstruction has upgraded the provisions of that Bill by announcing the Government's intention to make available $ 130.5m for approval by the States by 30th June 1973. As I understand the situation, this scheme has been undertaken in conjunction with the States, which for constitutional reasons are responsible for its implementation. Much has been said tonight about the scheme. We have heard accusations that it falls short of what is required and we have heard other criticisms. We have heard about who first thought of it and so forth. 
The original measure which introduced this scheme is only one of many that have been introduced into this House by the Government over past years to assist rural industries in this nation. But let us see what happened to make this measure and several other measures necessary. We had across Australia, not at the one time but in various years, a number of areas experiencing dry conditions and in some cases even drought. Certainly Queensland but also the other States know about that. These conditions depleted the resources of primary industry throughout this country, and primary producers were receiving no income with which to pay for their daily needs and their requirements for production. Interest charges, shire rates and all other rates were not able to be paid because drought conditions prevailed and no production could be achieved. That situation developed right across Australia at one time or another and depleted the resources of the primary industries. On top of the drought came other adversities, the main one being a serious drop in wool prices. This was the culmination of a series of events which had been occurring for over 20 years. Some honourable members in this House would know little or nothing about that episode. It was because of the combined effect of these events that farmers across Australia got into the problems in which they are now. This measure, together with many other measures, was introduced to try to correct the situation. 
The fact that this matter has been discussed with the States by the Minister and $1 30.5m has been made available does not mean that this is the end of the Commonwealth's participation in the scheme. It was indicated at the time when it was introduced that it would be reviewed. The first review takes place this year and no doubt the scheme will be reviewed again in the future. Not only is it important to talk about rural reconstruction and other schemes designed to assist rural industry, but it is important also to realise that the rural reconstruction scheme or any other scheme of a similar nature cannot operate and be successful unless the primary producers in this country get a reasonable return for that which they produce. This is why I mentioned the episode to which I referred. Mention has been made in this House tonight of the price of wool. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! No point of order arises. 
The Bill before the House this evening is an extremely important one. I consider that amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and to other Acts of this nature probably are some of the most important issues dealt with by any Australian parliament because throughout Australia, not only the parliaments but also, I believe, the people believe in the system of conciliation and arbitration. It has been with this country for a long time. The Bill contains some 69 amendments to the original Act. That is quite a significant step forward. Although members of the Opposition do not seem to think that it is a step forward, I feel sure that time will prove that statement to be correct. 
Before proceeding, I should like to make a few comments on one or two matters which have been mentioned tonight by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  although he spoke for almost an hour, dealt very little with the Bill itself. It was a little hard to understand whether he was in favour of the Bill. I. had the feeling that he, as a member of this House, was in favour of the amendments before the House this evening although I may be misjudging the honourable member. However, that was the feeling I had. The honourable member did get close to the Bill on one or two occasions and he mentioned the conducting of secret ballots. He said - I think these were his words - that they are of no value. Does the honourable member for Hindmarsh not believe in democracy? Does he not believe that when there is a dispute on any matter, it is a reasonable proposal that those concerned in the dispute should be able to cast a vote one way or the other on how they see the dispute? 
I would say that the secret ballot would have a tremendous value under certain conditions. Certainly, there would not be many occasions when a secret ballot would be held to resolve a dispute. But the machinery is there and I think that is the object of any Act of Parliament - to give the opportunity to the people to take advantage of certain machinery to protect their interests. That is what legislation is all about. In this case secret ballots are available under certain rules and conditions set down in the Act. I believe that it is only right and just that the people concerned should be given the opportunity to take a secret ballot if they thought that it was desirable. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh also mentioned this great word 'productivity'. It has been bandied round Australia a good deal in recent times as to what is and what is not productivity. I cannot let pass without comment one point mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I think he mentioned that the coal producers or coal miners - call them what you wish - had doubled their output but had not been allowed to receive a 35-hour week. This business of using productivity in this way as an argument for increasing wages and for decreasing hours is not an argument at all if it is taken completely out of context, as it is on many occasions. On numerous occasions throughout Australia it has been argued that productivity has gone up by X per cent - very often this is some 100 per cent - and that therefore, workers should be entitled to remuneration accordingly. I have no argument whatsoever that workers or anybody else throughout Australia should not receive a reasonable day's pay for a reasonable day's work. This is not my argument at all. What I am saying is that in certain circumstances throughout Australia where sometimes millions of dollars are spent in handling heavy cargo throughout various industries within Australia and where numerous men once were employed by the hundreds previously, by installing modern machinery which is necessary because of the tonnages which are being handled, the number of workers involved is so much less. Of course, the tonnage handled has increased by many hundreds of per cent. 
A classic example of this is that whereas previously throughout the ports of the world each piece of cargo was handled separately - for instance, each bag of wheat was handled separately - now bulk handling of commodities has been introduced. Machinery to handle these commodities was developed, and although it costs millions of dollars to install, it can handle great quantities. But this had to be done to combat increasing costs. It is useless for any honourable member to stand up in this place and to relate productivity to this new system of handling cargo. Productivity means that men, working under the same conditions, are producing more during a day's work - and this is happening all the time - and they are entitled to receive more pay; that is fair enough. I could not follow the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I do not think that he really agrees with conciliation and arbitration at all. That is the only interpretation which I could put on his speech. 
I must comment on one or two points made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  He was concerned about the clause in the Bill which refers to the public interest. He seems to think that the term 'public interest' " reflects on only one section of the public. It reflects on everybody in Australia. If the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission takes public interest into consideration, it must consider every person in Australia. The term 'public interest' does not refer to any single unit or group of people in Australia; it refers to all the people. 
The honourable member for Stirling also said that workers have to go to arbitration to get their due. He seemed to imply that it was a restriction on the workers throughout Australia that they had to go to arbitration when other people did not have to go to arbitration. What was the position before we had arbitration in this country? Surely to goodness the Opposition does not want to return to the situation where workers had absolutely no protection whatsoever. Now we have an arbitration system and a Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I feel sure that the honourable member for Hindmarsh agrees with conciliation and arbitration. As a matter of fact, I think he said in his speech last December that he agreed with conciliation and arbitration, and I think that he agrees with the amendments contained in this Bill. I do not think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh or the honourable member for Stirling or any other member of the Opposition wants to return to the chaotic situation which existed for workers prior to the introduction of arbitration in this country. Do they want the chaos which exists in many other countries? Britain has been plagued with chaos in recent times and so has America, especially on the waterfront on the West Coast where workers have been on strike for months. Do honourable members opposite want this sort of thing? In this Bill the Government is making an honest attempt to try to update the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in order to protect all sections of the community - not only the workers - and to ensure that there is a fair deal for everybody. I believe that these amendments will assist in achieving this end. 
I refer to one or two other points which were made by the honourable member for Stirling. He again referred to the increase of 5.3 per cent which the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd made in steel prices. Nobody likes to see price increases in any area. But let us take a parallel right here in this Parliament. The government of the day - and it does not matter which party is in government - is responsible for running the PostmasterGeneral's Department, which is the largest business in Australia. Because of increases in wages and salaries paid to employees of that Department, in the last Budget the Government found it necessary to increase postal charges by, I think, 20 per cent. The principal reason for increasing postal charges was that the wages and salaries of employees in the Postmaster-General's Department had increased by $77m in a single year. Therefore, the Government had to find this money from the people who used the services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. Is it not reasonable to suggest that if the Postmaster-General's Department has to increase charges in order to meet wage and salary increases, other large organisations in Australia, including BHP, have to increase their charges in order to meet wage and salary increases? I wanted to say those few words about the points which have been made by honourable members opposite who have spoken this evening. 
As I have said, the amendments before the House tonight are designed to assist both employees and employers in overcoming the problems which we will always find in relationships between those 2 bodies. It is not reasonable to expect that we will not get differences of opinion, especially in large organisations, and we must have conciliation and arbitration processes in order to sort out the problems. The Bill we are discussing tonight endeavours to bring up to date the situation in which we find ourselves in 1972. As I have said, the role of conciliation and arbitration is significant in the Australian scene. I believe that the Australian people and workers generally look to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and they will be looking to these amendments to the Act to protect their interests. The employers and the people generally also look to this Act for protection. There has been a change in circumstances and working conditions. We have now entered the technical age. If we do not from time to time bring up to date legislation such as this the Parliament will not be doing its job. As we move along in life we can benefit only from the experience which we gain from every day of our life. 
This system of conciliation and arbitration provides a guarantee of a minimum wage to employees. A lot has been said both this evening and previously about employees having to go to arbitration to justify wage increases. Employees have a guaranteed minimum wage. The original concept of conciliation and arbitration was to guarantee employees a reasonable wage and reasonable working conditions. But what is the position of the employer? An employee is guaranteed a minimum wage. An employer does not always get a guarantee. I know it has been said that employers can increase their prices whenever they like, but that is not real life. Some employers do increase their prices. BHP has been mentioned, and that company did increase its prices. But many industries in Australia cannot do this. For instance, base industries in Australia have little or no opportunity to increase their prices. I qualify that by saying that this Government has guaranteed the wheat industry a price for a certain parcel of its production. This year, for the first time in its life, the wool industry has been guaranteed a price for a certain parcel of its production. But many employers in base industries have never had an opportunity to increase their prices when, in fact, their costs have risen. 
What is the position with all the other industries? For instance, what opportunity does the meat industry have to increase its prices when the charges for killing stock rise? It has no opportunity whatsoever. There are many other industries which, through severe competition in the market place, have no opportunity to increase their prices. But employees are guaranteed a certain wage, and that is important. I cannot see any worker in Australia today ever wanting to do away with that guarantee. God help him and God help Australia if in fact he ever did so. 
The Opposition should support these amendments this evening because they are important to all of us. I have referred to what happened previously. If I remember correctly, I think that the Harvester decision was the first one which guaranteed a certain wage for employees. The honourable member for Hindmarsh probably would remember that case a lot better than I. do, but I think that is the position. There is evidence to indicate what was the situation prior to the introduction of the type of legislation which we are considering tonight. Legislation such as this incorporates 2 main bodies into the system. Of course, the  President  is in the middle but there are 2 bodies, namely, the employee and the employer. This system cannot work unless both parties are determined that it will work. There will be friction and disagreements but this legislation is designed to try to sort the position out. The parties concerned - I do not lay the blame on any one party - have to try to make the system work. Honourable members have heard me speak on this subject before. If both parties do not cooperate there is no chance of the system working. 
I said earlier that the honourable member for Hindmarsh did not agree that the proposed amendments were to his liking. I note that on page 4200 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 7th December last year, when he was speaking to these amendments, which at that time of course were only forecast, he said: 
I want to say that the main thing in an industrial dispute is to get the parties talking to each other and to see that the talking takes place before each side takes up a fixed, unalterable position. The strike weapon should always remain the last resort, to be used only when negotiations, mediation or conciliation have broken down. 
This is exactly what this Bill is all about. The honourable member certainly approves of the principle of conciliation and arbitration, even if he does not approve of it in total as we on this side of the chamber do. I believe that he thinks it is important that industrial matters should be dealt with in this way. It is important, as the honourable member has said, to get the parties together before it is too late because once it is too late the trouble is really on. The industry concerned suffers and the matter snowballs through other industries and the community itself is affected. Tremendous losses are incurred by many people throughout the nation. 
Clause 8 of the Bill concerns the qualifications of persons appointed as  Deputy  Presidents. In effect, a person need not be a lawyer to be appointed as a  Deputy President  of the Commission. I believe that this clause is most important. It means that Australians who are not necessarily from the legal world can be appointed to this position. As I see it, this will bring a much better balance to the Act and to its operation. I have always believed that a practical approach is needed to these problems. A legal approach is one approach; it is a trained approach. I know that it is necessary and particularly important, and I am not under-estimating it. But I believe it is important also to have a practical approach and to bring in men of other and wider experience who have a practical point of view. 
I have not time to discuss all the clauses of the Bill but I believe that many are important. Clause 13, among other things, relates to matters which must be dealt with by the Full Bench of the Commission. I believe that this is important. The public interest is brought into the picture. The public interest has been an important issue and it has been raised on many occasions. The state of the economy should be taken into consideration when the Commissioners are negotiating for the settlement of disputes. This is all they can do under the Constitution of Australia. It is real life to believe that they must take into consideration the public interest and the state of the economy of Australia. On what other basis could they come to a judgment? I realise that they have to settle disputes, but on what basis are the disputes to be settled? Is the settlement to be based on the value of work or productivity? These are all factors to be considered but surely when one comes down to tin tacks it is necessary to look at the whole economy before a sound judgment can be reached. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Can the Minister indicate what developments are envisaged in relation to the housing of naval personnel who will be stationed at Garden island, Western Australia? Can the Minister also indicate what plans are being formulated concerning public facilities on the island? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that there has been a cut in the sheep research projects being carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? If so, can the Minister say how many personnel have been transferred from sheep research to other projects? To what extent have the cuts been made in research funds previously available for this work? Will the Minister ensure that sheep research projects are not reduced but in fact expanded in areas where research is required to resolve many questions? 14211/ 72  -  /f - f 1 001 
 The Bills before the House this afternoon appropriate certain funds not previously made available by the Parliament. They appropriate quite a lot of money in order to supply the needs of the various departments. The Opposition has moved an amendment which calls for the formation of a committee to investigate and report to the Parliament on the closing down of particular sections of industry and the consequent loss of employment. As we all know, the employment situation in Australia is not as good as it has been in many years past - at least 10 years past. There seems to be a proliferation, if 1 can use that word, in Australia today of committees making investigations. Every time we seem to run into a bit of trouble, which needs a little thought, somebody calls for the formation of another committee. This indicates to me that Australia is breeding the, type of man who is not prepared to accept the responsibility to make a decision. As soon as we get into the position where we have to make a decision on something, we want to form a committee to make an investigation. 
History has shown that certain things have happened in economies over the years, particularly in our economy. There is every indication as to why the present situation exists in Australia. Surely we have learned from some of our experience in this country and we know precisely what our problem is. Surely we do not have to form a committee to define the problem. We know what the problem is; therefore, we should be able to do something about it. What happens after a committee has investigated a particular matter for months and months? In Australia, in the last two or three years the base industries have been losing hundreds of millions of dollars. This is real money. The only real money in this country comes from the soil: it can come from nowhere else. If these funds are not coming through, as they have normally come through in recent years, obviously we reach the situation in which we presently find ourselves, where money is not available in certain areas. In other words, the purchasing power is lost, to a large extent, in those areas. 
This economic situation is world wide; we are not the only ones in this situation. There has been a down turn in the prices received for raw materials, and the amount involved is of some magnitude. We can trace this back through history as far as we like to go and we find that as soon as this has happened there has been a repercussion in the economies in the world, and this is precisely what is happening now. In other words, if the purchasing power drops, obviously the spending power at the other end of the scale also drops. One cannot happen without the other. 
This afternoon I asked the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a question about research in the sheep industry in Australia, and I want to develop that theme now. It had come to my knowledge that certain things were being done; certain cuts were being made in the research which the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation was carrying out in the sheep industry. I have not any doubt at all that these cuts have been made because of certain thinking in Australia in relation to the sheep industry. This is wrong. The sheep industry is the largest industry in Australia. The sheep industry is sound enough if in fact Australia faces up to the situation and does the right thing in relation to the industry. It is a tremendous industry, and let us not neglect it. Research into this industry should not be cut. Once we start to lose faith in our major industries we will finish up in the situation which I have just mentioned. 
We know that in recent years the sheep industry has been passing through a rather torrid time. If we go back through the history of the industry we also know what has been happening in the industry in the last 20 or 30 years or, if one wants to go back further, in the last 50 or 60 years. The point I want to make this afternoon is that I and many other Australians were deeply concerned as a result of the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on, I think, 2nd May last in relation to the proposals being put forward by the wool industry to the Government concerning the future marketing of wool. That statement referred to a so-called Randall Committee. It has always been the policy of this Government - and I remind the Government of this - that when an industry has required certain things to be done in relation to marketing or research or in any other field, the Government has negotiated with the industry concerned. That has always been the policy, and it is the right policy; I stand on it. This is what should be done in the present circumstances. If agreement can be reached between the wool industry and the governments concerned - and I say 'governments concerned' because in the overall situation the marketing of Australian wool is a national industry - (Quorum formed.) 
When I was interrupted I was referring to the overall situation and to the fact that the marketing of wool concerns both the Commonwealth and the States, because when a national marketing scheme, such as that which has been suggested for the wool industry, has been introduced it has been necessary for the States to become involved because of their constitutional responsibilities. I was also saying that this Government has always stated - and I agree with it - that it is the responsibility of the industry to come to the Government with a proposal. Then the Government negotiates with the industry on the details of the proposal and, after agreement has been reached, introduces the necessary legislation. I will not have a bar - and I will be frank about it - of having side issues, such as the setting up o he Randall Committee or other sorts of committees, placed in the way of that policy. 
The Government is entitled to get any information that it requires. But the problems facing the wool industry have been well known over the years, and I will say quite frankly that the Randall Committee probably will be a good school exercise in history. 
We require something for the future. We have enough experience and knowledge to be able to assess precisely what has been going on in the past and to know what should be done in the future. I call on the Government to move ahead and bring confidence back into the wool industry which, from all the information I have received, is losing confidence again in what the future will bring to the industry. Confidence is most important to any industry, lt is most important in relation to the Bills we are discussing today. We must bring confidence back to the nation and v.e can do this only by making definite decisions on major proposals being brought forward. Wool is the biggest industry in Australia and people involved in that industry do not want to be left in doubt in any way about the future. The industry has indicated what it requires. The Government ha&lt; the machinery to do certain things relating to those requirements. 1 have said in this House on many occasions that the Government must go to the States and get agreement between the States so that it can help the wool industry in a positive way. That is the constitutional arrangement. (Quorum formed.) 
It is most unfortunate that we should suffer these interruptions during a discussion on such an important matter as the Australian wool industry. This topic is relevant to the amendment moved by the Opposition. If we can get our major industries back on to their feet we will not need this sort of amendment to legislation. I am well aware of the pressures in Australia and elsewhere against doing anything for the great wool industry in this country. If anyone thinks we are blind to these sorts of things or if anyone thinks that any man in Australia, whether a parliamentarian or someone else, is bigger than the Australian wool industry, he is mistaken. Our wool industry is a tremendous industry and all the indications are that before long there will be a world shortage of this fibre. This is obvious. Anybody who has been following the techniques evolved on the wool auction floors in Australia over the past few months would be able to work that out for himself. Anyone who has studied these things knows where wool stands, lt is right on top. We cannot afford, as a government, as a parliament or as a nation, to fool around with the wool industry. We must make decisions. The Government must indicate precisely what it is doing and in this way put confidence back into the industry. 
It is not a matter of the industry wanting a large amount of revenue, and I particularly emphasise the word 'revenue' The Press seems to be horribly mixed up, as we noticed again earlier this week when there were certain reactions in the Press following a statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. The wool industry is quite capable of looking after itself but it must be given the opportunity to do so. Like any other business enterprise the wool industry needs capital. It must have capital to finance its transactions on a commercial basis. That is all it needs if it is handled correctly. Exactly 12 months ago 1 made certain statements in relation to the wool industry and where it was going, and they have turned out to be perfectly correct. I ask the Government and the nation to get behind the industry and do what needs to be done; in this way a lot of our problems would be solved. On many occasions history has shown that once primary industries start to drop, whether it be through low prices, drought or whatever else, within a year or 2 the nation's economy is affected. The new money and the only real money is the money that comes from the soil, and without it the economy will break down. There can be plenty of froth and bubble on the top but once the sound basis has gone the economy is in real trouble. 
I should now like to deal with another matter, education, only a small matter in relation to the Bill before us today but quite a large matter in the community. The Bill refers to the expenditure of $5,200,000 on education. Recently the Government has made large sums of money available for the advancement of education, and this action is to be applauded. I agree with the Government's policy. However, there is one area which does not seem to have been taken up by the Commonwealth or the Stales. I do not intend to argue whose responsibility this is but, as I see it, clearly it is a national issue. I refer to children who do not have a school located within reach of their home. This problem has become a tremendous burden on many families throughout Australia. Many children must travel great distances to receive an education. I believe there should be no discrimination and that all children should be given the same opportunity and consideration. 
The policy of education authorities to locate schools in large country centres and in various parts of metropolitan areas requires many children to travel great distances, sometimes hundreds of miles, to receive their schooling. 1 believe that these children should have the same opportunity of travelling to school for their education as other children have. I do not believe that a child who lives within an area of a high school, or adjacent to or within travelling distance to that establishment, should have any advantage over a child who lives hundreds of miles away from a high school. It is the policy of governments to locate high schools and other schools in certain positions but it is necessary for proper development of our country that people should be located in all parts of the country. I believe the Government should pick up this problem and do something about it and in this way help the children concerned to receive the same type of education as is enjoyed by their brothers and sisters in other areas of Australia. 

Is the amendment seconded? 
I certainly do not underestimate the importance of the Australian wool industry to those whom it benefits, and I am sure that none of my colleagues underestimate it either. In speaking to the Labor Party's matter of public importance on the failure of the Government to give leadership on the marketing of the Australian wool clip, I remind the House that in 1951 the Government offered unlimited support to a reserve price plan. Again in 1965 it offered unreserved financial backing to a similar scheme which was not agreed to by the industry as a whole. Since that time, of course, the Government has brought in many measures, including the present reserve price plan which has the backing of the present Commission and which has meant much to the wool industry of this country, as I said only last week in this House. The Australian Labor Party has said that it has its plans which it could put into operation tomorrow. Of course it could not do so because of the Constitution of this country. This I have also explained in the House on many occasions. Let us hark back to the performance of the Labor Party in office. It is, of course, a long time since we had a Labor government. About 1956, when the Labor Party certainly occupied the treasury bench, it took control of the wheat industry. 
I correct myself. It was 1946. It is so long since Labor was in office that it is a little difficult to remember. But the policy of the Labor Party at that time was to take control of certain primary industries. What did it do? It took the Australian wheat growers' wheat and sold it to New Zealand for exactly half the price it could have obtained overseas on other markets. If a Labor government has a chance to deal with the rural industries of this country again it will do the same thing again without any hesitation. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  stated in his speech today that very little has been said by honourable members on this side about the wool industry. If the honourable member reads Hansard he will find that since I came into this House in 1963 I have made endless speeches on wool. On many occasions I have made speeches about wool marketing and other matters relating to primary industries. Only last week I made a speech in this House relating to the wool industry. I have made them many, many times, and everybody in Australia knows where I stand in relation to the wool industry. The wool industry will obtain an acquisition scheme which is put forward to the Government. There is no doubt about this. We have at the moment a scheme which, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said, has been backed by the Government. This scheme was introduced at the end of 1970 to assist the wool industry because of the situation it faced at that time. As I said last week, it has been of tremendous benefit to the wool industry. This is a current scheme which has been approved by this House and which is being backed by the Government. In this year alone it will provide anything from $100m to $150m to the wool growers of this country and will also benefit every other section of the community. This machinery is in operation. 
I say to the Government that it must bring down the legislation required by the industry itself as soon as possible. But if the Labor Party introduced legislation, as it says it would, without having regard for the Constitution, the legislation would be challenged in the High Court tomorrow and the Labor Party would lose. As I said last week, we must have agreement with the industry and the States before legislation is in fact put through this House. The machinery which we have at the moment must be preserved to assist the wool industry. It is important machinery and precisely the machinery which was sought in 1951 and 1965 by the industry with the backing of the Government. The history of the wool industry shows that if a price support plan such as the one we have at the moment can underpin the prices which wool has been bringing on the market for some time and can put confidence back into the market obviously the market will improve immediately. This is what is happening at the moment, despite everything that has been said about the competition from synthetics. 
What has been said in the House today about synthetics is not correct. Anyone who cares to study the position at the moment will find out that the price of synthetics has dropped to the floor. It was only towards the end of last year that statements were being made in this country and elsewhere that the Australian Wool Commission's price was 2c or 3c a kilo too high in comparison with synthetics. The position in which we find ourselves today is that wool is so superior from the manufacturers' point of view that its price has increased and the price of synthetics has dropped to the floor. There is a place for synthetics in the world; but there is also a major place for the wool industry. 
As I have said on many occasions the policy of the Government has always been to negotiate with the industry on its marketing and research proposals. That is what has been done on each and every occasion previously. The actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  have been mentioned. Anyone who goes back through the record to 1957 or thereabouts when the present Prime Minister was Minister for Primary Industry will find that on every occasion when Bills concerning the wool industry were introduced in the House the right honourable gentleman announced that the Government had negotiated with the industry before bringing forward the legislation. I hope that the Prime Minister will stand by the policy which he followed when he was Minister for Primary Industry. As I see it, it is still the policy of the Government - it is certainly where I stand on the matter - to negotiate with the industry, work out its problems, come to a decision on them and bring down legislation. No doubt the Government will, as I said last week, do just that. But it must do it as soon as possible. The Government must state precisely where the wool industry will stand in relation to legislation that will be brought down in due course. 
I would say that confidence is one of the most important things in the wool industry. It has been said around the world that wool is cheaper at 60c per lb on a market that the buyers regard as being a stable market than at 50c per lb on what they regard as an unstable market. The textile manufacturers do not like to see an unstable market because it means that their competitors can have an advantage over them. The textile manufacturers like to see stability. It should be remembered that the price of the raw material is very low indeed in comparison with the cost of the finished article. Anyone who has studied the facts will know precisely what I am talking about. If the honourable member for Dawson were to go back through Hansard he would see where I have quoted actual figures in this context. 
The Australian Labor Party has initiated this debate in order to spell out its platform on the subject of wool, which is fair enough. I do not argue with that. But if it wants to spell out its policy it should spell out all of it. The copy I have in front of me of the Australian Labor Party's platform is, to my knowledge, the most recent one. I think honourable members should examine that part of its platform which appears under the heading of 'Rural'. Among other things it states: 
Appropriate measures to adjust the levels of farm production in balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demands, in order to provide satisfactory prices to farmers and consumers, with the aim of establishing industry on an economic self supporting basis within a definable period. 
I take that to mean that the Australian Labor Party would cut production if it thought that this was necessary and would leave the producers to themselves over a period of time, with no subsidies or assistance of any description. Anyone who cares to go through the speeches that were made in this House by members of the Labor Party on wool not so long ago will find included in them a reference to a cut in production. I think - I am not sure of this; the honourable member can correct me if I am wrong - that the honourable member for Dawson has mentioned that aim on occasions. There is no surplus of wool in the world. There is certainly no surplus of wool in this country. There is no need for cuts. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Can the Minister indicate the present position in regard to the establishment of a veterinary science school in Western Australia which the present State Government had proposed to defer? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen reports of a statement by the Canadian Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Mitchell  Sharp, in Peking that Canada in future will have first preference on sales of wheat to China? As a result of this statement is the Minister concerned about Australia's future wheat sales prospects? 
The Budget which the House is discussing this evening involves a total expenditure of over $10,000m. It is one of the broadest Budgets, if not the broadest budget, that I have ever had the pleasure to debate in this House. It covers a very wide range of benefits for a number of people throughout Australia. In fact it will benefit almost every person in Australia. Payments to the States will be increased by $395m to $3,449m, which is a lot of money. The defence vote this year is estimated to be $l,323m and social welfare and repatriation are estimated to be $2,529m, making a total of $7,30 lm or about 70 per cent of the total Budget. These 3 items are usually the largest part of the Budget. The balance has to be divided into various areas. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  - he is no longer in the House, unfortunately - spoke at some length about the unemployment situation in Western Australia. There seems to be a tendency here for everyone to blame somebody else on each occasion. It is no good saying that the Western Australian Government does not have a responsibility for unemployment. Every State government in this Commonwealth has a significant responsibility under its own constitution, and the Commonwealth Government has its responsibilities under the Commonwealth Constitution. It is true that Western Australia has an unemployment problem. It is also true that a couple of months ago the Premier of that State requested from the - Commonwealth a special loan of $3m to relieve unemployment in Western Australia. 
There was an interjection - I think, from the honourable member for Sydney- asking: Did he get it? From the speeches I have heard from honourable members opposite one would infer that he did not get it. But he did get it. He got precisely what he asked for - $3m special grant for the relief of unemployment. 
Exactly. Let it not be said that the Premier of Western Australia did not get what he asked for. In addition, special grants are being made by the Commonwealth - running into about $6m a month, if 1 remember rightly - for rural unemployment. This again is special money for a special area. A lot has been said in recent times about the unemployment situation. I listened very intently to the honourable member for Perth, but he did not offer any solutions for this problem. It is no good blaming anybody for it. One has to find a solution for it. It is a matter of history - one can go back around the clock as far as one likes - that if. there is a down turn in the primary industries of this country, or of any other country, then there will be a down turn in employment. 
That happens as regularly as clockwork. If all the primary industries are in trouble, the entire economy is in trouble. The report of the Reserve Bank of Australia refers to the fact that most Western countries have had a down turn in their economies and have had unemployment and inflationary problems in recent times. This is not unique to Australia. The same thing has happened in most countries. There has to be an up turn in primary industries, not only wheat and wool but also in metals. At this point we can notice a turnback in most of these areas. There ls a turnback in steel, wool, grains and meat. As we see this position developing not only throughout Australia but throughout the world, we will see our economy becoming stronger and the whole situation changing, but it will not change until that time. We can inject millions of dollars into our economy and do all sorts of other things to stimulate the economy for a time,, but we must look at the overall situation, the real base of our problem, and try to do something about that. 
What has this Government been trying to do about that for the last couple of years? Millions of dollars have been poured into the wheat industry. It has been in trouble not only because of overproduction a few years ago but because of droughts that have been a problem in some areas in recent times. We have seen also the tremendous problem with wool. When we as a government were trying, and not only trying but succeeding, to back the wool industry to the hilt to help it overcome its problem, what response did we get right across Australia? We had the Press against us. We had the Opposition completely condemining the Government for supporting the Australian Wool Commission last year. But the wool industry is our basic industry in Australia and it had to be supported to the hilt. The action we took has proved to be correct. One can see, even if it is only from events that have taken place this week, that the wool industry is now regaining the confidence which we should have been putting into it and which we were trying to put into it despite the opposition all around Australia. 
These are the real things. It is no good blaming people, lt is doing positive things in the real area of money that counts. 
There is only one place from which you  can get real money and that is out of the ground. Unless you can get the basic industries in toto moving you will never get your economy moving. That is what this Government has been trying to do. We would expect the co-operation of the States. We would expect the co-operation of the Opposition, which we did not get last year when the major industry of this country was in real trouble. The honourable member for Sydney may laugh, but millions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of jobs are wrapped up in this industry, and the economy will not recover until we get it back on the rails. You cannot take hundreds of millions of dollars out of the economy without that having very dire effects. The Budget we are discussing this evening also supports the rural industries, as Budgets in the past have done. I have no doubt that if it is necessary again we will further support what we have been doing in the past in the major industries and rural industries. Any government which happens to grace the treasury bench in this House and which does not stand up to that responsibility will cause the economy of this country to suffer even more than it has in the past. 
The Budget contains a number of very important measures. For instance, the social welfare measures will be of tremendous assistance to many people in more ways than one. The Budget will assist private enterprise. It will assist the individual through taxation concessions, improved social service benefits, lower estate duties and many other things. This is the very reverse of what I would expect of a Budget from the Labor Party, if it ever had the opportunity to bring one down. The Government's Budget feeds money back into the private individual's pockets for him to spend. It does not take moneys out of the private individual's pockets for the Government to spend. That is the difference between this Budget and the budget that the Labor Party would bring down. On 24th September 1969 this Government made a statement about relief from estate duty for people in primary industries. This was a big breakthrough in this area. Here again we should be looking to ways and means of preserving the individual's private property. Estate duty in the past has been far too high. The present rates of duty, if left unaltered, would tend to destroy the value of men's private property. I must say that the amendments to the estate duty legislation outlined in this Budget will again assist the private individual. The Government's assistance in this direction will be of tremendous help. 1 only say again, as I think I have said before in the House, that it is now up to the States to do their share by introducing similar cuts in probate duty, which under the Constitution is their responsibility. They also must face up to their responsibilities and assist private enterprise and people generally to get over this hurdle. 
The new social service payments are a tremendous help to people in more ways than one. Details of the new benefits were described to some extent by the Treasurer this evening. The new rates are a big breakthrough in many ways. Social services are an important part of any Commonwealth Budget. I firmly believe that the elder citizens of this country are entitled to reasonable assistance from the Treasurer in various ways. They are getting this now. It is not only the benefits from the pension itself that we must look at but it is also the fringe benefits that one must take into consideration before coming to any final conclusion on what is available to these people. When we take into consideration the total scene of social service and health benefits, including homes for the aged, we find that the situation has improved immensely for the recipients of these benefits. The Government has also said that it will do away with the pension means test within 3 years, or words to that effect. 
Much has been said tonight about the 10 per cent income tax cuts. Some criticism has been levelled at these reductions. We have achieved another breakthrough in this area. It is an excellent breakthrough. Nobody can deny that an average reduction of 10 per cent in taxation in one Budget is a sound breakthrough indeed. In my book the Treasurer is to be congratulated on reducing taxation to the present levels. From the proposed scale of taxes we see that the lower income earners will benefit to an extent greater than 10 per cent. Therefore these reductions will be a stimulus to the economy and of great assistance to the family man and others. 
Mention is made in the Budget of long term credit for rural industries. This is not an easy area in which to overcome problems. Many things have been done in this area over recent years, but many of the things that have been done have been forgotten. The major banking structure within Australia has served the country very well. We have added to this from time to time, for instance with the Commonwealth Development Bank and also long term moneys from the Farm Development Loan Fund, which is often forgotten about but which is still being used. We have also more recently added to it by the introduction of a rural reconstruction programme which has been upgraded to a 2-year period. The total scene of assistance to rural industries is being looked at in the light of all these circumstances. The financial problems besetting rural industries are not easy to solve but something must be done 10 solve them. Credit for primary industries must be upgraded because circumstances today are considerably different from what they were when the system of providing financial assistance in respect df farms was first implemented. A refinancing corporation or a fund of this nature is overdue and must be brought into being. It is not a matter of wanting more money; it is a matter of re-organising the finances now available to primary industries throughout Australia. From memory, about 80 per cent of loans to primary industries are on call, and the balance is in the form of term loans, farm development loans, loans from the Commonwealth Development Bank, and no doubt loans f rr n the State banks. But this whole system must be analysed and we must introduce a system of re-financing arrangements which will allow some longer term borrowing by farmers. It is not that farmers are asking for more money; it is simply a matter of asking for re-arrangement of the terms and conditions on the money borrowed. 
In referring earlier to the economy as a whole I mentioned unemployment in Western Australia and in other parts of Australia. One of the major problems in primary industry is the low return being paid to producers. In some areas of primary pro duction a very small number of cents in the dollar is being returned to the producer. This is something which the industry, other interested persons and governments must investigate to the fullest extent. It is simply not good enough to have some primary produce being sold at present prices with such a. low percentage return to the grower. I have referred to this matter in this House before but I think it is time that I repeated it. The world will be short of certain commodities if people do not wake up to what is happening. Unless producers receive a reasonable return for their commodities production of those commodities will fall away. 
I have referred to the plight of wool producers at various meetings throughout Australia on numerous occasions. In recent times wool producers have been gaining a return of about 3c in every dollar received for the finished article. That is why the price of wool is now starting to rise. Production of wool was being reduced. Last year it fell by 2 per cent. This year it will be down by 8 per cent or 9 per cent and it will be down again next year. Decreased production is one reason why the market has so much improved. Other factors including synthetics have influenced the market but I do not have time to deal with them now. Unless producers receive reasonable returns the goods simply will not be produced. 
Beef shortages are occurring not only in Australia but also across the world. The United States and Europe have opened their doors to allow the entry of unlimited amounts of beef. The only way that adequate beef supplies to meet the world demand will be maintained is for the producers to receive a reasonable percentage return. I am not directing my remarks to the consumer. He is at the end of the line. Others involved should ensure that growers receive a fair deal. If not, production will simply not be there to meet the demands of the world at large. This situation applies not only to wool and meat but also to grains, sugar and every other primary product. 
In some countries the primary producers sell their products mainly to the domestic market. For example, in Britain almost all the primary production is consumed on the domestic market, with a small amount going to Europe. In those circumstances the primary producers receive a reasonable return. In Australia the situation is different. About 95 per cent of our wool is sold overseas and the grower receives a return of only 3 per cent. Large quantities of our meat are sold overseas on good markets but in the last few years only a small percentage has been returned to the producers. This is just not good enough. If we as a nation wish to make good use of our overseas markets and if we wish to return our primary industries to the forefront where they belong we must ensure that for the good of "the industry and everybody involved a reasonable return is made available to producers of goods which are saleable overseas. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I want to say a couple of words about the apprenticeship scheme. I welcome the announcement that it is proposed to assist employers in regard to apprentices. However, I would like to say that this assistance is too little; even more I would like to say that it is too late. On 9th December 1971, during a debate on unemployment relief, I said: 
I think that perhaps as an emergency measure we might have to do something to assist the intake of apprentices in the forthcoming year - 
That is now this year -  because if the economy does improve for some reason in the near future we might find that apprentices will still not be taken in. The reason for this is that there have been many retrenchments of tradesmen in the vehicle building industry in South Australia, and if the industry picks up it will be those tradesmen who are taken on first because the apprentices are not immediately productive in the first couple of years of their indentures. I think the chances are that if many of the boys are not taken on as apprentices in the next couple of months they will lose their opportunity of having a skilled occupation throughout their adult lives. 1 think that some emergency programme should be started to help the intake of apprentices. 
This situation has been brought about because nowadays apprentice training is done in the employers' time and with the employers' money. This change came about about the same time as the recession brought on by last year's Budget. There is the danger that if the apprenticeships are not taken on the people concerned will forever forego their chance of getting a skilled occupation. I wish that the proposals before us had been introduced a year ago. I believe that I have been vindicated by an answer I received from the Minister for Labour and National Service in reply to a question on notice earlier this year which showed a sharp reduction of unfilled vacancies for apprentices registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service in 1971-72 compared with those registered in 1970-71.I ask for the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard extracts from  2  tables. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208243_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to Press statements concerning VIP flights to Western 
Australia? Can the Prime Minister indicate the purposes of such flights? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable gentleman can make his personal explanation at the conclusion of the Minister's speech. 
In a remarkable fit of frankness last night the Leader of the Opposition made it plain that he could not always tell the truth. It thinks this question needs to be asked by this House: Do the policies which have been promised to the Australian people over the last 12 months or so represent in total one of the occasions to which the Leader of the Opposition was referring last night? The irresponsibility of the Leader of the Opposition does not stop there. When we come to the rural community and the community generally, we find that the Leader of the Opposition has pledged or promised to support a 35-hour week, which would add $3,000m to costs throughout Australia, reduce the incomes of farmers by up to 40 per cent and do great harm to all secondary industry. This policy would damage the prospects of improved employment in Australia which the Government is dedicated to achieve. But not only has he done that; the Leader of the Opposition has also committed himself to a revaluation upwards of the Australian dollar. So, the Leader of the Opposition has promised each farmer in Australia that, if he is returned at the election at the end of this year, each farmer will have a lower income than he would otherwise have had. That is a firm commitment and promise by the Leader of the Opposition. But this is not only a threat to the farming community; it is also a thr eat to industry and to employment in the metropolitan areas because Australian industry would be placed in a more difficult competitive position as a result of that policy. 
One of the things that the Leader of the Opposition said last night on television was that if he learned that Japan was going to revalue he, of course, would not be able to say anything about it; he would not be able to make it public. What is so sacred about a Japanese revaluation? If he is prepared to give 2 or 3 months' advance notice of an Australian revaluation, why should he feel so constrained and so concerned to be silent about another country's revaluation which he learned about? Does he not have a greater respect for the Australian currency and the damage that will be done by his policies in this area? Between now and the election there must be a significant number of people who will contemplate bringing capital into this country in the hope that the Leader of the Opposition might win the election and put into effect his policy of revaluing the Australian dollar upwards. This would do great damage to Australia; these policies together would be disastrous in the rural area. 
I think that these things recall to mind the policies that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  criticised some time ago. He criticised the rural policies of the Australian Labor Party as they were defined and framed at the Launceston conference. The honourable member for Dawson said on a television interview, amongst other things: 
. I find the statement incredible, also it is untrue. . 
He was speaking of the description of Labor's rural policies. The honourable member for Dawson continued: 
It was in fact the colossal ignorance of a person who should know better. 
Later in the same interview on the programme 'This Day Tonight', the honourable member for Dawson said: 
Yes, I find it very hard to believe, except that perhaps very few members of the conference- 
That is, the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference -  know anything about rural matters. 
Later in the same interview he said: 
We cannot just keep on pouring subsidies out willy nilly like a madman in charge of a counterfeit press, whether they go to.-, primary industries . or secondary industry. And incorporating those words in an amendment which was passed means it's a very dangerous thing, because if this is followed by the caucus, as it should be, it means we will have to vote against the wheat stabilisation bill, dairy industry, the various wool commitments, the Australian Wool Commission, all of these are subsidised industries that cannot stand on their feet under this criteria. 
The honourable member for Dawson was criticising his own Party's policies. He continued: 
More dangerously, Graham, is, if this criteria is paid to secondary industry which is a tariff, it means the abolition virtually of all secondary industries in Australia. 
Later in the inverview, when he was speaking of one of his  colleagues,  the honourable member for Dawson said:  if  you are in a city electorate like  Mr 
Hayden - the safest in Queensland;  a  city electorate - have  a  go  at  the rural fellows, at subsidies and that, but make certain you don't have too much to say about the tariffs. 
What the Leader of the Opposition has said about revaluation of the dollar only confirms the criticisms that the honourable member for Dawson made of the rural policies of his own Party. But again it does not end there. I have a document titled It's Time', which is concerned with rural issues and which was published a short while ago. I quote a small part of the document: 
Labor recognises that the preservation of the nucleus of primary industry is fundamental to the maintenance of a prosperous rural and city workforce and associated business enterprises. 
If this primary industry nucleus is allowed to wither away, then the workforce and business community will collapse also. 
What is the nucleus? It is the inner core. Is it 30 per cent of those now engaged in rural pursuits, or is it 40 per cent or 50 per cent? The farmers of Australia are owed an explanation because a nucleus is an inner core; it is only part of those now involved in an operation. That is the only concern of the Australian Labor Party. 
There were other parts of this document that could well provide a grim foreboding for the Australian dairy industry on what might happen to this industry with the relaxation of margarine quotas if the Australian Labor Party were in power. These matters were criticised pretty firmly by  Mr Ronald  Anderson in his 'Primary Industries Newsletter' when he was referring to the Labor policy document which has recently been announced and called 'It's Time'. He said: 
It says a large number of things no-one would argue with, some things which are meaningles and virtually nothing new . . . One ALP phrase which could scare the pants off some farmer leaders is reference to 'preservation of the nucleus of primary industry,'. 
Further on he says: 
All told, the ALP rural policy is so vague that it is meaningless. It wallows in the use of words like assist, review, recognises, will strengthen, will provide incentives, will encourage and will initiate evaluation - all so much verbal garbage when one things about it The specific sections dealing with wool, wheat, dairying, meat and sugar offer nothing new or significant at all. The so-called promises are so vague, or are of things which already exist (or are about to do so), that they provide nothing but literary window dressing. 
They are not my criticisms of the policy but  Mr Anderson's,  in his newsletter. All this means that the hallmark of ALP policies is irresponsibility and ineffectiveness. Last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  again demonstrated his complete ineffectiveness in matters of importance. He was asked whether Barr-' Johnston, the draft dodger candidate for the electorate of Hotham, was an embarrassment to him and whether it would be better if he withdrew his candidature. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition said that it was an embarrassment and of course it would be better if he withdrew. But what does he do about it? He does nothing about it. He says that he cannot talk to Barry Johnston because he is in hiding and he would not like to be responsible for him being caught. But there is no need for him to talk to Barry Johnston to achieve something in this particular area. The Victorian Executive has the power to act. The Victorian Executive is not in hiding; far from it. It is using its influence. But the Leader of the Opposition cannot talk to the Victorian Executive about a matter of this kind because quite plainly the Victorian Executive would laugh at him. 
This House should ask whether this is another of the areas in which the Leader of the Opposition feels he cannot reveal the full truth, because we all remember his phrase when he said: 'Draft dodging was not a crime'. If he is prepared to stand by that statement, why should he criticise Barry Johnston's candidature for the next elections. He has also, on other occasions, demonstrated ineffectiveness when, with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  he announced an industrial policy and on instructions from union leaders abandoned that policy within a day or two.  His  ineffectiveness has been demonstrated by caucus decisions which apparently had demanded that all 27 members in the Labor ministry should be in the Cabinet. A third of his caucus wanted to have portfolios allotted by a committee and not by the leader of the party. To have a third of the caucus against him on that issue was significant. 
I, return to the great financial deception: Under Labour; it's time'. All right; it is time to pay $2, 500m extra a year. It is time to pay. That amount is an equivalent of 62 per cent increase in income tax or 160 per cent increase in company tax. It would mean $500 a year in extra tax for every wage earner. It is time to pay. Every S500m extra means $2 a week for ever/ wage earner. Labor promises taxes of $10 extra a week for every wage earner. It is time to pay: For the national superannuation scheme which the Labor Party promised - nearly $2 a week; for education, an Australian schools commission and  a  new Canberra bureaucracy more than $2 a week extra; for a national health insurance plan - more money for less - more than $2 a week extra; and for housing, helping with interest subsidies, Commonwealth bank financing, $2 extra a week. In all $3, 500m will be needed - $10 a week from every wage earner. Time and again it is time to pay. If this country is to be governed with responsibility and stability we must hope that we never see that time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry and I refer to beef exports to the United States of America. Is it a fact that the United States of America has lifted quotas on Australian beef imports to the end oi 1972? If so, can the Minister say whether negotiations have been carried on between his Department and United States officials in regard to Australia's position in 1973? Can he inform the House of the position regarding Australian beef exports for the year 1973? 
The legislation we are considering concerns the Australian wool industry. It draws together 2 previous Acts, one relating to promotion and research and the other relating to wool marketing by the Australian Wool Commission. The legislation is a result of a report submitted by Australian wool growers to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government in March of this year. In this report the Government was requested to do certain things for the Australian wool industry. One request was that the 2 bodies operating in Australia with respect to marketing and promotion and research be brought together under one piece of legislation and an authority be set up charged with the responsibility for both. Also in the report of the Australian Wool Industry Conference certain things were said about the future marketing of the Australian wool clip. Although nothing was spelt out in any precise detail there were indications of what was required in future. 
It is, of course, a policy of the Government to negotiate with an industry in an endeavour to arrive at a conclusion of assistance to the industry. During the last year or so much has been said about what should be done with the wool industry. The word 'acquisition' has been used frequently but, regardless of what has been said, it has not been spelt out in detail what the actual machinery of an acquisiion plan would be. The report which was presented in March did not spell out in detail many of the things which are required. One I can recall is where the capital would come from for any particular scheme. The report did not spell out what the reserves would be. This is an important element of any plan involving acquisition. The Australian growers would want to know what they would receive. If an acquisition scheme had been established 12 months ago one can imagine what that figure would have been and how unrealistic it would be with today's prices. 
On many occasions during the last two or three years I have said that there is nothing wrong with wool except perhaps the way it is marketed in Australia. There is nothing wrong with the product. I have said frequently in this House that wool is worth money, but no-one would listen to me a year or so ago. The position with respect to wool today is no different from what it has been for the last 100 years. We can set up all the committees we like, rake over the ashes and drag it all out again but we will come to precisely the same conclusion. History will show, as I have said before, that when an adverse price situation arises and the situation is taken under control a reasonable price level will be achieved. I remind honourable members of the situation in 1921 when  Mr Hughes  was Prime Minister. He did not have the money or the machinery to do anything about the existing situation in the wool industry but he used customs and excise powers to prevent wool moving out of Australia below a certain price. Immediately wool prices moved up and a reasonable situation was attained. After the last war 10 million bales of wool were in store in Australia, America and Britain. It was then said that we would never sell the wool. The post Joint Organisation scheme was implemented and it continued until 1950. The price of wool did not cease to rise from the 1945-46 period until 1951 by which time the whole of the 10 million bales of surplus wool - most of it Australian - had been fed into the markets. 
Last year I said that there was no problem concerning the buying of wool, regardless of what was being said by others, and that all we had to do was to stand firm. I think almost everyone in Australia had the jitters then. The Press and the wool growers had the jitters. Certainly members of this House had the jitters about the future of wool. However one cannot within a year or so alter a fibre like wool and the uses to which it can be put. We have not been wrong in the last 100 years and we will not be wrong in the next 100 years. A lot of shenanigans were going on around the world, but this was nothing new. Of course, the Australian Labor Party was one of the biggest offenders. It is interesting to look at the Hansard record of 17th March 1971 when the honourable member who leads for the Labor Party in this House on matters concerning wool made certain statements condemning the Australian Government for supporting the Wool Commission. He said that the action being taken by the Commission to stockpile wool would mean the end of the Australian wool industry. I do not want to bore the House and take up all my time by reading everything he said but he said, amongst other things, that as the Commission buys and stockpiles raw wool synthetics will progressively catch up and gain an increasing share of the world textile markets. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that on 17th March 1971. He said a lot of other things at that time which are recorded in Hansard. It is not what machinery this House may adopt, or what complementary machinery the State Houses introduce if we have an acquisition scheme, that is all important. Bills such as the one in front of us today or future Bills are not all that is required, although they must provide whatever authority we establish with powers to do what is necessary. We need men to back the commission or authority which we set up. We need men who will stand up to pressure and back the authority, as the Government did. Reading in Hansard of 17th March 1971 what the honourable member for Dawson said, it is obvious that the Opposition would not have backed the Commission. What he said appears in Hansard in black and white. If it would not back the Commission at the time when the pressure was on, it is no good for the Labor Party to talk about an acquisition scheme, because it would not back that either when the pressure was on. It is not only the machinery that counts; it is the men who are handling the situation who matter. History shows this again and again right down the line. 
Wool is a tremendous fibre. It is not related directly to synthetics. As I have said many times previously, anybody who now wants to argue with that statement has not read about what has been going on in the last 6 or 8 months. Synthetic fibres, of course, have a place in the world. Nobody argues against this. They have a place to fill in the world and they have a price at which to fit into the industry. But wool fits into a completely different category. Wool is a unique fibre that has not yet been able to be copied by any manmade fibres. I doubt whether anyone will ever succeed in doing that. People have spent countless millions trying to copy it but they have failed dismally to this point. Campaigns directed not at the quality of wool but at putting synthetics on the top of the counter and wool under the counter have failed dismally. People around the world have realised that they want woollen fabrics to wear instead of the synthetics which have been pushed on to them. 
As I said before, wool can stand on its own feet without any problems, if it is given an opportunity, under a direct marketing plan. Surely this has been proved beyond doubt not only at this time but at several other times in the history of wool in the Australian market. Of course, when any wool Bill has been brought into the House the Labor Party has moved for an immediate acquisition of the Australian wool clip. I feel sure that the growers of wool in. Australia want spelt  out  precisely what sort of scheme is to be brought down. That is one of the purposes of this Bill. It sets out that one of the functions of the authority that we are setting up is to report back to the Government and the growers themselves means and ways of improving the marketing of wool. It has been suggested this afternoon that there is no provision in this Bill whereby the authority can acquire the total clip. For the benefit of the House I read from Part III of the Bill, which deals with wool marketing. Clause 38 (1.) (o) states:  to inquire into (whether alone  or  in co-operation with other authorities and organisations),  and  from time to time report to the Minister and the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon, methods of marketing  wool'  (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of  all  wool . . . and any other matters connected with the marketing' of wool. 
That is a very broad clause. It was stated that the original Bill setting up the Australian Wool Commission had no teeth and was powerless to do anything. This was stated all over Australia 'and it was no doubt stated in this House. One might care to look at the records. Clause 19, especially the last couple of lines, of the original Bill gave the Commission and the Government all the power it required. The establishment of the Commission with the backing of the Government proved to be the correct procedure when the pressure was applied last year and the Commission was buying up to 30 per cent of the wool sold. It finished up buying up almost one million bales of wool. 
The Labor Party was in complete panic. This is all recorded in Hansard. The Press, of course, was against the Government and against the Commission. Its opposition was displayed in headlines all over Australia. It talked about the hand-outs to the Australian wool industry and the Australian wool growers. The money they received was not in the form of hand-outs. It was money borrowed from the Government, from the banks, on which the Commission paid interest on a commercial basis. The Government and the Commission had the courage to stand up to the tactics that were being adopted and to the position in which we found ourselves at that time. In December of last year, the Government introduced another Bill to make available $30m to back the Commission further, and by the February sales of this year the game was over. But had the Commission not stood with the Government and had the Government not backed the Commission the game would not have been over today. What is Important with legislation of this type, whether it relates to wheat, wool, tobacco or any other commodity, is that we must have people who know what it is all about and stand up to any adversities which may affect its operation. We need men who will back and have faith in their own country and the produce of their country. 
This Bill will give the Corporation the same powers as the Commission already has. It can put a floor under the price of wool at any level it likes. That is precisely what the Commission has been doing, and it has won. It has fed the wool onto the market to be sold at a considerable profit. Much has been said in the last few weeks about the present price of wool. I often wonder how many people sit down and think and study the situation before they say what some people in the Press and elsewhere around Australia have been saying about the present price of wool, as if it is terribly high. There is very little relationship between the raw cost of wool, that is, greasy wool, and the cost of the finished article to the end user. I have given in this House statistics from Japan and Australia. In 1968 when wool was at a reasonable price, the return to the woolgrower for a man's suit or a lady's woollen garment was only 4.5c in the dollar. The price of wool proceeded to move down and the return to the grower dropped to 2c and as low as one cent in the dollar for providing the raw material. Last year or earlier this year, from an English suit purchased off the rack at any one of the major stores In Australia the return to the grower was about one cent in the dollar. I have cited these figures before but nobody cared to publish them. Today, with wool at its present price, the wool grower is still receiving only a very small percentage of the selling price of the foreign article. I have said before that last year the entire wool clip could have been given to overseas textile manufacturers and it would not have made one iota of difference to the price paid by the end user of the woollen product. These are not my figures. They are taken from surveys conducted in Japan and Australia which show that the retailers and wholesalers were taking about 57c in every $1. 
In those circumstances would anybody say that I as a responsible citizen and member of Parliament should say here that the price of wool is too high? The people in the Northern Hemisphere realise what happened in relation to synthetics and the pressures applied to the wool industry over the last few years. They know quite well that they now have to pay for wool to get it back into the factories because wool production is falling so rapidly. Not only has the Australian wool industry been in jeopardy; so also has the wool industry in the Northern Hemisphere. Without the raw material the millions of dollars that are wrapped up in textile manufacturing concerns will be of little use to those concerns. I feel quite confident that the world has again learned a lesson, but it is up to us to do the right thing. 
I have known the story for many years. The honourable member should read some of my speeches. It is up to Australia to do the right thing in relation to the marketing of raw materials. The States also have a responsibility because under our Constitution the produce of the States comes within the jurisdiction of the States. The wool industry is still the biggest industry in Australia and it will be for many years to come. I expect that the authority being set up by this legislation will shortly advise the Government on the new marketing techniques which it should know from experience are required to put the wool industry on a sound basis. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Duthie)  adjourned. 
I wish to speak for just a few moments on what has been said about the Australian Wool 
Corporation's responsibility. It would appear from what has been said by Opposition speakers that the Corporation is some remote body of men who have no interest whatsoever in the producer. The Corporation shall consist of 9 voting members of whom 4 will be wool growers. Clause 8 of the Wool Industry Bill 1972 states that the members of the Corporation who will represent Australian wool growers shall be appointed on the. nomination of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. These 4 wool growers obviously will have a lot to say on the setting up of any future plan, on any alteration to the present legislation or in relation to any submission to the Government. What the Opposition wants the Government to do is lay down in specific terms how the Corporation will work. Marketing plans that have been successful in Australia in relation to primary industries have been successful because they have been operated by an authority. If the Labor Party wants to debate what it did in respect of the wheat industry when it first came to power, what it did to our friends in New Zealand and the wheat growers in New Zealand, I will be prepared to debate these matters with it any day it likes. But it was not until the present Government came into office that these matters were rectified. However, I do not want to get away from the Bill under discussion. The Corporation which is to be set up under this Bill will decide what recommendations are to be made to the Government with respect to the wool industry and I have no doubt that the wool growers and others on the Corporation will be able to handle that task as it should be handled. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the following reports: 
Report- on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs (5 1st series). 
Report that the Committee is unable to complete its inquiries into State and Municipal Costs and Revenues in the Australian Capital Territory, and, Aspects of a Statutory Authority to administer education in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I ask leave to make a short statement in connection with the. reports. 
Firstly  I  request you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his attaining the high office of  Speaker  of this House. It is not an easy position. It is  a  difficult position, and this is known only by those who have occupied the chair from time to time. I wish him well in the future. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  seemed to spend half his speech referring to the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I do not intend to reply to that part of his speech because  I  am positive that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is quite capable of looking after the honourable member for Bowman and himself in relation to anything that might be occurring in Queensland. He is looked upon as a very fine Premier, not only in Queensland but across Australia. I have no doubt whatsoever that  Mr BjelkePetersen  is quite capable of looking after that situation. 
It is surprising to hear  a  Labor member, and a Queensland Labor member of all Labor members in this House or any other House of Parliament in Australia, standing in this place and talking about gerrymandering electorates. I am sure that Labor members' memories are not so short that they forget what happened in Queensland many years ago in relation to the gerrymandering of electorates. What was it? It was only because of the action of the Australian Labor Party itself that the people were able to put it out of office in that State. In the latter part of his speech he referred to the Democratic Labor Party. True enough, he would like to see it go because the crux of the whole situation in Queensland was related to the DLP. If any member of this or any other House in Australia is interested in gerrymandering I suggest he examine the situation that applied in Queensland many years ago when a Labor government was in office. No doubt we will be having more to say about this particular subject at some future date. 
This Government, which has been democratically elected by the people of Australia, has come into office at a time when Australian finances are better than they have been for many years. Would honourable members opposite dispute the position with respect to our balance of payments? They can obtain the documents and they will see that in the final half of last year- 
I suggest that the honourable member for Chifley listen. In the final half of last year, for the first time for many years Australia had a credit in its current account - a credit gained through trade. This was not brought about by accident. For the first time, because of our export trade, we have been paying for our imports. The coalition parties, when in government, had been trying to reach that point for many years. We were trying to get the position straight because as everybody knows we were living on borrowed money. Our goal was achieved but what will be the position in future? Will the Labor Government hold the position? That is the crux of the matter. 
For many years Australia has been building up its trade and its industry. It has built up its factories and its farms in no uncertain fashion. What has happened? We have come to this point and the figures prove that through its export trade Australia is now paying for its imports. In other words this nation at this point is balancing its books for the first time for many years. It has not been easy to reach this position but the former government achieved it over the years. I only hope that the Labor Party, in its lifetime in government, can hold that position. It is a challenge to the Labor Party. The only way the Government can hold the position is to inspire the industries - private enterprise - in Australia to develop, grow and manufacture goods that can be exported. This must be done if the balance of payments position is to be retained. 
Foreign capital was mentioned earlier. Such capital is moving out of this country very rapidly. Government supporters say that they do not want any of this money. They regard it as hot money which was brought into Australia. Reference was made, to our balance of payments in a statement by the present Prime Minister following the last Budget. Honourable members are free to refer to that statement. We have been through a very difficult time with many of our exports. This situation was not unique to Australia but applied to many other countries. There were great difficulties in the primary industries but Australia is now out of that situation but we did not get out of it by sitting down and doing nothing about it. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said that the present Government is making decisions because the people want decisions. 
Australia's greatest 2 industries are the wool and wheat industries. If the Government makes decisions in line with statements made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in this House during the last couple of years I fear for those industries. It will be the end.  His  statements are recorded in Hansard. Only by sticking to our guns when we were in government and by providing financial assistance of hundreds of millions of dollars were these industries brought to their current position. This action was condemned by the then Opposition Labor Party. So when decisions are made let them be sound decisions because these are important to the very things I have been talking about and to our balance of payments. I have great faith in the industries of this country as I have indicated that since I have been in this House. One can only have that faith if one is prepared to stand behind them, and this is the point I am making. 
In the last couple of months, in its decision-making the Government has revalued our Australian currency. The appreciation of the currency, if I remember correctly, was 7.05 per cent. This was a decision taken not by Cabinet but by two or three men within the Government. No doubt I will be corrected by Government members if I am not correct. But that was the decision that was taken at the time. If that decision were, correct for our currency, at the time, which undoubtedly the Government thought it was, following the crisis with respect to the strong currencies, notably the United States devaluation which had an appreciating effect of about 11.01 per cent on Australian currency, how could it possibly be right to do nothing then? If it were right in December to revalue our currency by 7.05 per cent how could it be right a few weeks later to have a situation were our currency appreciated by almost 19 per cent with United States currency? Perhaps honourable members opposite will answer this question at some time. 
The decision to revalue our currency has created great difficulties for some of our major exports. These are the points to which I was referring when I spoke about our balance of payments position. What will happen now to these great industries, including mining, many of which are in my own State of Western Australia? Some of these export industries are in trouble and do not know their position. They are still trying to ascertain the effect of revaluation on their contracts. On several occasions since the United States devalued its currency the question has been asked: Why were not our mining contracts written in Australian dollars? How naive can a person be? These are some of the biggest contracts ever written anywhere in the world. They were written some years ago. Honourable members opposite may smile. The contracts were written in United States dollars because that was the recognised currency. Had they not been written in United States dollars they Would not have been written at all at that time. It is no use honourable members opposite complaining. They must show responsibility and should know precisely what they are saying. If these contracts had not been written in United States dollars they would not have been written. 
 If the Labor Government does not believe me I suggest it speak to the big financiers to discover the position for itself. Members opposite should find: out what the people who wrote the contracts think of the situation. These people are in business and know that these sort of contracts could not have been written in any currency other than American currency at that time. I hope that the Government recognises the position in which some of our export industries are now placed. I hope it studies the position because it is serious. We do not want to see confidence destroyed in Australian export industries. We do not want a situation where new industries will not be attracted to Australia. All I ask is that the Government .negotiate with these people, that the Government recognise the position and act accordingly. The whole situation is extremely serious. 
The Government has stated in recent times that it intends to build a gas grid from west to east and from north to south. It sounds a very fine project, in words. I understand that the project was to be carried but by private enterprise, but I believe that the Government has decided to build the gas grid itself. I hope that the Government does not lose sight of many of the essential things which we need to help industry in this country. One of the things which this country - the driest continent in the world - must continue to do is build up its water resources. If that is not done gas will be of no use whatsoever because water is the basis of industry. I point out to the Government, if it wishes, to build a pipeline, that one is needed in Western Australia from north to south to ensure the future of industry in that State. In many other areas of Australia substantial pipelines carrying water are needed. I hope the Government does not lose sight of that situation. 
I have mentioned one or two things concerning primary industries, but I wish to mention particularly that Australia has come out of a very difficult period. Honourable members who have been in this House during the last 3 years know full well what has been said on this subject. The wool industry has come out of that difficult period for many reasons which I shall not relate to the House tonight. Wool, as a fibre, has never failed. It has been dealt some blows but the market for it has never fallen down and will not do so in the future. This natural fibre is required in many parts of the world. We have now to recover from the damage done to the wool industry over the last 2 or 3 years by certain interests whose aim has been to deplete its supply. Wool will become readily available only if the world is prepared to pay for it - and the world is now prepared to do that. 
The textile industry in the northern hemisphere has realised that it cannot carry on without wool. It has realised the damage which has been done to the wool industry, to the studs and to quality because of the drop in production. Wool is needed, as has been demonstrated on the auction floors. As I have stated in this House many times, many countries for a variety of reasons feel that wool is a must. In this field the Australian Wool Corporation came into existence after the amalgamation of 2 authorities on 1st January this year. The Corporation is looking at the recommendations of the wool industry and will eventually report back to the Government. The decision made by the Corporation will be extremely important and will have to be considered by the industry itself and, naturally, by the States. The future price of wool will rely to  a  large extent on the final document that is presented to this House after consideration by the States. Regardless of the clauses which may be contained in the document, there must be a floor price, cut off point, in relation to world wool prices. Whatever else is contained in the document, that ingredient is a must. 
I certainly hope that the Government takes the decision, of the Corporation seriously because in the last few years we have seen what can happen to the tremendous wool industry of Australia. The wool industry, in the main, has been reponsible for better employment opportunities being available to the people of this country. As I said in this House some months ago, particularly in reference to Australia, when wool prices recover and primary industries get hack on their feet the people of this country and many others will be employed to the full,. Those industries are now getting back on their feet. 
I was disturbed today when the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to the wheat industry and mentioned that wheat sales had been made by the previous Government in recent times. I did not follow the rest of his speech, but I sincerely hope that he and the Government do not believe that the previous Government made wheat sales. The previous Government did not make wheat sales. The Australian Wheat Board was set up to do that. When the Labor Party was previously in government it sold wheat to New Zealand over the heads of the wheat growers. I certainly hope that the remarks of the honourable, member for Blaxland in relation to wheat sales by the previous Government are not taken aboard by the present Government. The Australian Wheat Board has had the responsibility for seeing us through our difficult times over the years and has brought about a successful conclusion. There is one other point that I wish to make. The Government has announced that there will be a first payment advance on $1.20 a bushel. It is a small increase, but is not in keeping with present circumstances. The Australian f.a.q. wheat quoted c.i.f. London rose from Stg29.80 in August to Stg49 in December. That is a tremendous lift in the world market. There is a shortage of grain and many other things. The wheat growers are certainly entitled to receive the 10c increase in the first payment. In my book they are entitled to more than the first payment I have cited because wheat and other grains are  readily saleable overseas. 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

The Exports Insurance Corporation Bill 1973, which is before the House, is a further step to assist exports from Australia. It is a necessary part of establishing trade relations and trade with overseas countries to have measures such as this. Similar measures were introduced by the previous Government over many years. Until recently Australia relied almost entirely for its exports on its primary industries and although it still does rely very largely on them, secondary industries have been playing an ever-increasing role in helping meet our balance of payments. If I remember correctly, 20 per cent of our exports in recent times have been from secondary industry. 
The legislation that is before the House this evening is a means of encouraging secondary industry, as well as other industries, to make contacts and sales overseas. I am sure that without it people involved in secondary industry would find life very difficult at times. If my memory serves me correctly, when such legislation was first introduced in this House it was indicated by many in the business world that it was not necessary. Time has proved that to be incorrect. The amendment that we are dealing with this evening indicates that more assistance is required and that secondary industry is growing. 
Many factors are necessary in the promotion of export trade. Three of these are confidence on the part of the people engaged in trade, incentives by governments and others to exercise their ability to capture markets overseas, and exchange reality. Incentives is one matter we are dealing with tonight. Other measures can be taken. If confidence in industry is destroyed Australia will be in trouble. Some of that confidence has already been destroyed in the last few months, because exporters do not quite know where they stand in relation to Australian currency exchange. This is very disturbing and there is plenty of evidence coming from industry to support that statement. As I said a fortnight ago in this House, it is necessary as I see it, and I am sure as industry sees it, for the Government to look very closely at what is happening to industries which have been exporting and making a worthwhile contribution to Australia's trading position over recent years. 
It is extremely difficult, as no doubt the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  realises, to capture markets overseas. Australia has certain disadvantages, one being its remoteness from many world markets. Having captured those markets we should do nothing to upset the situation. It is important that the present relationship should continue and that no confidence is lost. There should be no monetary problems which would hinder in any way exports from this country. These are vital matters. The Bill will assist in the preservation of our trade. But the other points that I have raised are equally important to the successful continuation of exports from our secondary and other industries. If these other points are not watched very closely, confidence will be lost and industry will not be able to continue as it has in recent years. If it loses markets, it will be doubly difficult to recapture some of them because we are living in a very competitive world. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  quoted the 1972 report of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which clearly indicates the business being undertaken by that body. What is interesting is the spread of business over various commodities. This highlights what I have been saying about the type of industries that have been developing as export industries. We have amongst these, of course, some of our traditional industries. Our traditional primary industries are involved but a few years ago one would not have thought of many of the industries which have been seeking assistance from EPIC as becoming exporting industries. We have been exporting plastics, paper and paper products and household appliances. These sorts of industries undoubtedly have to face very severe competition overseas and would be in trouble if we did anything to upset their routine. 
It is interesting to note from the EPIC report that Australia is finding export markets in Europe, South East Asia, the Middle East, the Near East, North America, Central America, South America, Africa and many other countries. Of course, there is no better market than the home market for any product that is manufactured or grown in Australia. But having built up trade around the world in the last few years through the various incentives that have been given by the previous Government and having, as I mentioned a fortnight ago, balanced our current account, including the invisibles, it is most important that not only should legislation such as this be extended but also that every aspect of our export trade, whether primary or secondary, should be watched closely. Exporters should be encouraged, and we should try to ensure that they have a fair opportunity to succeed on the very competitive world markets. 
With Australian currency as it is at the moment I feel that, regardless of what he said, if the member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  looks closely at the position he will find that business is in trouble, especially in the mining areas. It is quite obvious from the evidence that I have been able to gather - obviously as a Western Australian I am able to gather quite a deal of information - that these particular industries are in very serious trouble. The point is where do we go from here? In these circumstances will industry continue to develop? Will it continue to put capital into new operations? Will mining in Australia ever reach the complete stage that is being spoken of at present? I refer to the development of another steel mill, whether small or large. Obviously a large steel works is out. But will development proceed under these conditions? From the evidence I have I believe that such development could be seriously retarded. The situation should be closely examined by the Government. Nothing should be done to stall or hinder the progress that has been made in recent years with Australia's exports. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Commonwealth aid roads legislation which will be due for renewal in 1974. Can the Minister advise whether he proposes to hold discussions with the State instrumentalities concerned and whether local authorities will have an opportunity to put forward proposals prior to the drawing up of new legislation? If so, what procedures is he contemplating? Will he ensure that adequate funds are available for the continuation of the road construction program including country roads? 
The Bill which we are debating at the moment was introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  some short time ago. The Prime Minister made a short second reading speech which I will comment on in a moment. One significant factor that he mentioned in his second reading speech is contained in the following statement: 
We want the national Government to continue to set the pace in improving the working conditions of Australian men and women. 
Regardless of what the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  has said in recent minutes, the previous Commonwealth Government in fact has done just that. There are many things in relation to the employment of people in this country and other countries other than 4 weeks annual leave. During the period of the previous Government - over the last 23 years, to use the term used many times in the House, the terms and conditions of employment of public servants in this country improved beyond recognition. No-one would deny that point. Because of improved conditions, not only in the Public Service but right across Australia, we have had an improved output. 
Many factors, apart from 4 weeks annual leave, are involved in the employment of people. I have no doubt that this continued improvement in working conditions will continue. At least I hope it will continue under the present Government. The Minister's second reading speech did not contain one word about what is involved in granting 4 weeks annual leave to public servants. At the moment some public servants in Australia do get 4 weeks annual leave depending entirely upon where they are situated. As far as I can see, nothing has been said about that position. No mention has been made about whether the present situation will remain or whether it will advance. I find it rather difficult to understand why there is such limited information in this measure which deals with 250,000 people employed in the Public Service. The second reading speech, which is an important document, contains fewer than 4 sheets of paper. I would have liked to have seen a much more comprehensive document. 
Not a word has been said about the cost involved in this measure. I am quite a practical sort of chap and I know that it is quite impossible to lay down in actual figures what the costs will be of any measure of this nature because such a yardstick cannot be described exactly in figures. But the Government could have had a shot at it. It could have given some indication of what is involved. I believe that this should be done. 
We have heard a lot from time to time in arguments in arbitration courts and around the country in relation to productivity. Despite what was said by the honourable member for Phillip, I have had quite a lot of experience in this field. Some of the arguments that have been put forward are quite inaccurate. I will give an example which I may have given to this House previously. Where bulk commodities have been handled by modern methods, the result has been incorporated in the figures of tonnages handled and it has been suggested in courts that the productivity is increased by that particular sum. That is absolute rubbish. These commodities have been handled in a certain way in the years gone past, and no man who knows this game would want that situation to continue. But where because of rising costs, for manpower reasons and for many other reasons, there has been a change in technique, especially around our coastline, and millions of dollars have been spent improving the conditions of workers in those industries, many tons per man per hour have been able to be handled as against no tons per man per hour previously. To write that sort of thing into productivity gains is not real at all because one has to consider the total scene. So even in this way it is difficult to lay down precisely what the cost will be. 
We know that in a measure of this nature where so much is involved there will be a cost to the community. Improvements in working conditions throughout Australia can be obtained as we move along but they can be obtained only at a certain cost to the community which has to pay for this item. They are not free of cost. They are inbuilt into the structure of costs in this country. Items such as this in any measure are quite important. Let me give an example of what is happening in the Post Office, which is the biggest single industry in Australia today employing more people than any other industry in Australia. The last figure I remember was that about 110,000 people were employed in the Post Office. Quite recently we have heard the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  talking in this House about the troubles he has in relation to the monetary situation in this area. Let him come out with the facts of life. Let him come out and tell us of the real causes of the problems that are concerning that establishment. 
I draw to the attention of the House the annual report of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1972, which is the latest one available. It is interesting to notice that the total operating expenses were $798.7m, representing an increase of $8 1.5m or 11.3 per cent. The biggest single feature in cost increases was the higher average salary and wage rate applicable during the year. The total labour bill, covering both capital works and operational staff, was $53 5m, an increase of 16.3 per cent. When the present measure is applied to the situation of the Post Office, obviously there will be a further increase in the wage and salary situation within the Post Office because the staff level increase in the figures for that year was less than 2 per cent. So the problem is not a matter of the increased number of personnel being employed in the Post Office; it is caused by that large 16.3 per cent increase in wages and salaries. When this measure is applied to the situation for the coming year, obviously there will be an additional cost factor. I suggest that the Postmaster-General should not continue to blame certain activities of the telecommunications service in country areas for the problems in the Post Office. We are well aware of the situation and of his problems. We appreciate the situation. But it is no  good  turning a blind eye to it at all. We must face up to the realities of life, and that is what we have to do in relation to all the measures that improve the conditions of the work force of Australia. 
As I have indicated, we cannot always use a positive yardstick. There is always a margin in this sort of thing. But to grant an extra week's leave to Post Office workers will require 2,300 extra employees in a single year to pick up the extra work load. If that situation is applied to the Public Service generally, 5,200 extra employees will be needed to pick up the extra work load which is left. I have always said that the cost cannot be measured exactly, but these figures are relevant and should be stated for the public so that they will know what is involved. This Parliament, which is a responsible body, should look very thoroughly at this situation when a Bill of this nature is brought in. The point I made at the beginning was that I was disturbed by the fact that the second reading speech did not fully explain the consequences of any major move of this nature. I do not in any way suggest that the working conditions of wage and salary earners, whether they be in the public or the private sector, should not be improved. I for one have always tried to improve the situation and the lot of people in Australia. I believe that this is right. But let us not forget that as we move up the ladder there is always a cost factor involved and there must be a build-up in production by individuals if we want to improve the very high standard of living which we in fact enjoy in Australia. We want to improve that high standard of living. Regardless of what has been said, in the last 20-odd years the standard of living in Australia has improved tremendously. One has only to travel overseas to realise the good position we are in. 
Another point concerned me considerably when the Bill was going through the rigours of being implemented, from the time it was suggested by the present Government prior to the election. It was indicated that only those people within the Public Service who belonged to particular unions would receive 4 weeks' annual leave. I find it very difficult to understand that a responsible body of men or a responsible government should endeavour to implement such a proposal. 
The second reading speech on the electoral Bill which was introduced into this place quite recently and which I understand may be debated later today contains some words which I hope I may be permitted to mention without being ruled out of order. The expression to which I refer is 'those fundamental principles of human rights and democracy in this nation'. These are the things that are at risk in that Bill. A similar expression should be incorporated in this Bill as the words are very relevant so far as union membership is concerned. 
I believe in organisation and that the unions in Australia can play a large part in improving conditions, especially in those instances where there is a need for negotiations between the employer and employees, perhaps involving even the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This is an integral part of the whole union system, but there cannot be compulsion. The unions must win their own way into attracting membership to the unions. If union membership is compulsory the whole credibility of unions will start to disappear. Only by attracting membership and doing those things which need to be done will the unions and their leaders be able to illustrate that they are capable of taking responsibility and doing the things that need to be done. Only in this way will they be able to show that we can have sound union organisations in Australia. I would oppose measures of the kind that the Government endeavoured to implement by which it was proposed to discriminate between union and non-union members of the Public Service. 
At the beginning of my remarks I mentioned cost, and I have made repeated references to it in the course of my speech. This is a very important issue in relation to this or any other issue with which the House may deal today. In recent times I have heard many honourable members comment on the cost of commodities. References to this subject have appeared in documents that have come to my notice and in newspaper commentaries. We have a situation today in which some food prices have risen. I suggest that many commodities in respect of which comments about prices increases have been made have been far too cheap over the years. Primary industries in Australia in the last few years have been passing through a very difficult time during which costs have been rising and returns from commodities have been declining. At present many industries are returning to a situation in which they are able to make ends meet 
However, this recovery cannot be achieved overnight. Costs are still rising and still present a problem in the community, not only in relation to primary industries but also to the whole nation and particularly to people on fixed incomes. 
Let us not turn a blind eye to measures of this kind which may come before the House in this or future sessions or imagine that they will not affect costs. The position of the primary industries is improving at the moment, but if our economy is not checked to the extent that a workable economic arrangement can be attained for producers of primary products, those producers will no longer be around. This point is basic. It has been suggested that not enough meat is available in this country or that the cost of meat is too high. People who make those criticisms should look first at the total scene. European countries and most other countries including Japan and America today are experiencing a shortage of foodstuffs, particularly food concentrates. This presents a very serious situation and the only way in which it can be rectified is by a realisation throughout the world that if people want these commodities they must be prepared to pay a reasonable price for them. That is why I have been saying that costs have been too high relative to the returns received over the years by producers of some commodities. This is one of the main reasons why production of those commodities has declined. The only way in which the situation can be improved is by looking after the costs and prices situation in our own country. 
I have mentioned before that I do not object to improvements in conditions for those who work in Australia or, for that matter, in any other country. Surely there is room for plenty of improvement in other parts of the world as well as in Australia. I have always endeavoured to play my part in improving working conditions in Australia. For this reason I do not oppose the Bill. However, I reiterate that the people directly and indirectly involved in measures of this kind must keep in mind the cost of implementing these proposals. I trust that in future when the Government brings down legislation of this nature involving so many people it will make available to honourable members a document setting out what is involved in the measure and provide far more information than has been supplied on this occasion. 
When such an important question as this is being debated in the House one cannot but be amazed at the lack of information coming from the Government. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said, during the course of his remarks, that the Government has a policy and will put it into operation. If what we have heard this afternoon is an example of the operation all I can say is Pity Australia'. If the Government has a policy let it announce it. Since the Government came to power great uncertainty has existed with respect to tremendous projects in Australia. People are uncertain about the prospects of future projects. I am expressing not only my own uncertainty but also the doubts of Australian businessmen and persons abroad. Where are we going with this Government? I am concerned particularly with the mining industry and especially with statements that have been made and decisions that have been taken because these put all future operations in jeopardy. 
It is history that over the years Australia's primary and secondary industries have been developed by Australians, by private enterprise and by risk capital. Men of energy and enterprise have established primary industries and mining industries. They have created the situation in which Australia today has a credit balance of payments, as I mentioned in this House recently. The work of these people has not been undertaken lightly. Much has been done. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  claimed that Lang Hancock is reported to have said that at present it is a seller's market. 
I suggest that the honourable member talk or write to Lang Hancock informing him of what he is alleged to have said. The honourable member will soon find out what Lang Hancock thinks of his Government and the  present  situation. Lang Hancock knows the current situation in Australia and knows the position with respect to Brazil and what other nations have done following the revaluation of Australian currency and the devaluation of the American dollar. What has Japan done in relation to Brazil? Japan is spending hundreds of millions of dollars in Brazil because the situation there is far more attractive than is the current Australian position. Much has been said by people in the mining industry - people who do the work, who know the situation and who make the contracts. They know far more than do the back benchers of this Parliament. On 20th February 1973 the Australian Mining Industry Council issued a Press statement in which it made the following comment: 
No further iron ore projects in the Pilbara would be developed at current SA prices. 
The people associated with this Council know what is involved in all these matters, but what is the Government's policy? We want to know whether the Government has a policy related to what the mining people are saying because big projects are available and waiting to get off the ground in Australia. The people associated with these projects are in the wilderness at the moment because they do not know what they can do. 
It has been suggested that when the contracts relating to Western Australian minerals were written they should have been written in Australian dollars. It is unbelievable that members of this place should make such a suggestion. The magnitude of these contracts was such that they had to be written not in a relevant currency but in a neutral currency. I ask honourable members to consider these contracts that were written between Australia and Japan. The only currencies in which they could have been written at the time were United States dollars or sterling. It was most unlikely that they would be written in sterling. Had they been, the situation would be worse than it is. However they were written in United States dollars for a number of reasons. The magnitude of these contracts obviously is not known to the honourable member for Blaxland. Apparently he has not studied the whole situation. Much of the money used in the development of these particular resources was American money and obviously the people supplying the finance wanted the payments in United States dollars. 
The States have a lot to say about the development of resources within the States. I have not heard much, if anything, from the Government about the States' responsibilities. Is this to be another instance where the Commonwealth Government will, through its export powers, seek complete control of contracts for minerals within a State without reference to the State government? 1 do not know, but it is an interesting aspect. The 2 decisions taken by the Government to revalue in respect of United States currency have put Australian mining industries in jeopardy. I do not know, nor does anybody, exactly what will happen with future projects. For the information of the Government I refer again to the very big contracts between Australia and Japan. Naturally the method of financing - the sort of currency - would be discussed. One of the major matters would relate to the use of a neutral currency. Could it be expected that Australia, with only 13 million people, would have an acceptable currency in this situation? Australia and Japan were making the contracts and they would need to be divorced completely from buyerseller influences if we were to secure satisfactory contracts. I want to hear what is the Government's policy, if it has one, because it has not spelt it out this afternoon. 
Let us hear what is the soft touch. Let us have the Government's policy in blueprint form. I am sure that the people involved are waiting for this information. I know, as do most honourable members, that the mining interests have advised the Minister for Minerals and Energy of their position. I am not aware whether the Minister has advised the mining companies of the Government's position. If he has, I should like him to tell the House. Has he informed the industries concerned in detail of the Government's policy? I suggest that if he can manage it, it would be appropriate for him to make a ministerial statement so that Australia and the world will know precisely where we are going with these particular projects. Nickel is an important mineral for Australia. I understand that Canada supplies about twothirds of the nickel requirements of the free world. In these circumstances, who would control the price of nickel? I leave it to the House to make the decision. The Canadian dollar has floated down with the United States dollar so this is a situation that confronts the Australian nickel industry. The Minister knows the situation and he knows the possibilities of developing Australia's nickel resources in future. These matters are important because so much is involved - men, money, homes and towns. These aspects are all involved in the future of the mining industries of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The amendments which the Committee is discussing at the moment - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
It is obvious from this Bill and the amendments to it that the Government is not happy to let our democratic way of life proceed. Clause 4 of the Bill deals with redistribution. The Government proposes to alter the tolerance from one-fifth to one-tenth. From listening to the debate on this Bill this evening and previously one would think that the tolerance, which has been 20 per cent, was brought in by the Australian Country Party. If one says something for long enough somebody is bound to believe it. But the tolerance principle has been followed since 1902. Why in heaven's name should those statements have been made in this debate, both before the suspension of the sitting for dinner and afterwards, suggesting that the Country Party was responsible for that part of the original legislation? It did nothing of the sort. The Country Party was not even in existence in 1902. Therefore the remarks that have been made repeatedly in that vein are completely untrue. Our forefathers were very wise. They were dealing with a very big country. I will deal with that aspect in a moment. Those statements have been made repeatedly and they are simply not true. 
I want to address some remarks to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is in charge of this Bill. In the course of his remarks before the suspension of the sitting he referred to Western Australia's entitlement to an extra seat, which would give that State 10 seats in all. If I remember his words correctly - I will certainly check them in Hansard tomorrow - he said that he hoped the Parliament would pass this Bill so that he could proceed to give Western Australia a tenth seat. The inference in that remark was that we needed this Bill to give Western Australia another seat. But that is not correct. The Minister and his Government are under an obligation to provide an extra seat for Western Australia immediately the census figures are completed. That is the situation at the moment. There is an obligation on the Government of the day to give that State an extra seat in a separate redistribution. That obligation is on the Minister at the moment, and he does not need this legislation to do that. He knows that as well as I do. 
The Minister referred to the Western Australian position in relation to the tolerance. He outlined the position in all the States. When he reached Western Australia he said that there was a tolerance of 10 per cent. I do not think the Minister would disagree that those were the remarks he made earlier today. Let me inform the Committee and the Minister of the situation in Western Australia. There is a Labor Government in that State at the moment. There have been Labor governments in Western Australia on many occasions. Let me inform the Committee of the position in the Legislative Assembly election on 20th February 1971. I have an official document which indicates the. number of voters and the number of seats. This will show that the Minister's reference to 10 per cent was quite incorrect. For instance, let me give a sample of electorates in the metropolitan area. In the electorate of Ascot there were 14,272 electors on the roll; in Balcatta there were 20,269; in Belmont there were 14,742; in the seat of Canning there were 21,346. There are more metropolitan seats but I do not want to bore the Committee by going through them. 
I now move to the agricultural, mining and pastoral areas. In the electorate of Albany there were 6,596 electors on the roll at that time; in Avon there were 6,110; in Blackwood there were 6,081. That is another sample. The rest of them in that category are much the same. There are many more seats. Now let me turn to the north-west, to the Murchison-Eyre area. In the electorate of Gascoyne there were 3,285 electors on the roll; in Kimberley there were 3,148; in Mur- chison-Eyre there were 1,840; and in Pilbara there were 5,278. The numbers range from 20,000-odd down to 1,000, yet the Minister said this evening that there was a tolerance in Western Australia of 10 per cent. 
We are dealing with Australia. I have quoted those figures tonight not only to answer the Minister's point but also to indicate that we are dealing with Australia and not with some other country such as Switzerland or New Zealand. This is Australia and we should look at the situation from Australia's point of view. It is a very large country. I should not have to remind honourable members that it contains 3 million square miles of territory. 1 have no doubt that when the first Commonwealth Electoral Bill was drawn up in 1902 Australia as Australia was taken into consideration and the tolerance of 20 per cent was laid down at that time. Clause 4 which we are discussing deals with redistribution and tolerance. Since 1902 Australia has been transformed into a very productive country. In more recent times there has been a rapid movement of the population of Australia into the city areas, and if the proposed amendments to the legislation that we are dealing with tonight are written into the Commonwealth Electoral Act the number of city members will rapidly increase and the number of country members will decrease, because the only way new boundaries can be drawn up is by taking out of the present legislation provisions relating to disabilities arising from distance and remoteness, density or sparsity of population and the area of divisions. These provisions are to be taken out. If that is done, obviously in practice in the rapidly growing metropolitan areas and especially around the perimeter of rapidly growing areas the Commissioners will be forced to reduce the quota and increase the quota in the country areas; otherwise we will have a redistribution about every 6 months. That is obvious to anyone who studies the situation. So the present situation will be reversed completely. 
Lest honourable members think that since I am a Country Party member I do not have very many people in my electorate, let me remind them that at the last election there were about 65,000 electors in my electorate. The number must have grown by now. So let us not have this suggestion that the Country Party is not representing anybody. I believe that 65,000 electors would be a little more than the average number of people represented by most members in this chamber. So 1 strongly oppose this clause. 1 believe that the proposed amendments to the legislation are nol in the best interests of Australia. They will only force a situation in which there are more members in city areas and they will retard the number of members in the country areas, where in fact a greater membership is required. If I understand the position correctly not only the Opposition but also the Government wants to see fewer people going to the city areas and more people congregating in other parts of Australia. But this Bill does not create that situation, lt will only increase the number of people who will in fact be in our city areas. 1 do not believe that that is in the best interests of Australia. 
The measure before the House at the moment is designed to establish what is known as the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. This is done at the beginning of each Parliament. The Committee has quite large responsibilities and is different from some of the other committees that are formed within this House and the Senate, being a joint committee. I note that on this occasion the number of members from this House who will be on the Committee will be larger than previously. Really, that is the only major change contained in this measure. 
The responsibilities of the Committee are quite wide. It has a responsibility for examining variations in the original plan of Canberra which are brought before the Committee from time to time. In this regard, decisions have to be made and reported to the Parliament. This is becoming a major issue on the Canberra scene because our forefathers did not anticipate that the' city of Canberra would grow to the size to which we now anticipate it will grow. Therefore, a problem exists in relation to area. It is quite obvious that, as the population and services of Canberra grow, the amount of land in the A.C.T. will not be sufficient to cater for all its needs. Therefore, one of 2 things must happen. Either more land must be acquired from New South Wales or there must be very close liaison between the responsible authorities and the Government of New South Wales and those responsible in the A.C.T. So the growth of this centre, if it spills out into New South Wales to any great extent - it is happening to some extent now - will be in conformity with the excellent plans which were laid down for this Territory. 
Another very important responsibility of the Committee is to investigate various aspects of various industries in the Territory to see what the future holds. The previous Committee has been investigating the State and municipal costs and revenues within the Australian Capital Territory. This is a very important investigation because it will possibly be the base for future representation within the Australian Capital Territory. At the moment, as is well known, there is one honourable member in this House representing the Australian Capital Territory. There are no councils as there are in the States, apart from the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, nor are there any State instrumentalities. So the position is that the Australian Capital Territory with a population of over 160,000 has one representative in government. As the Territory grows obviously that situation must change. This inquiry is very important for the future of the Territory. I think the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will agree with me that it is important that the inquiry proceed without any undue delay. 
A lot of work will have to be done and a tremendous amount of evidence will have to be gathered. The formation of this Committee will give the people of the Australian Capital Territory an opportunity to present their views to an authority. This is important because, apart from the representative in this Parliament, it will be the only place where the public can come, where information can be gathered and presented in the form of a document and where progress can be made. In the investigation of costs and revenues it is important that we collect not only all the evidence available within the Australian Capital Territory but also relevant evidence from Australia and elsewhere to see what can be done to provide the best form of representation for the Australian Capital Territory in the future. I feel sure that the residents of the Australian Capital Territory are looking forward to the presentation of that document. I hope and trust that in the not distant future we will be able to resolve the problems associated with this area and come forward with a recommendation which will make it possible for the people of the Australian Capital Territory to have a greater say in what transpires in this Territory. 
The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has a reputation for watching the interests of those concerned within the Territory. J hope it will continue to do that. I am sure that all the matters brought before it will be investigated very thoroughly and reported upon. I hope that situation will continue until such time as the other points I have raised in relation to greater representation come into effect. I am not in any way reflecting on the Minister. He knows that 1 am talking about a broader representation for the people in line with that existing in the States. The representation does not necessarily have to be the same by a long chalk as that operating in the States. It will be the responsibility of the Committee to look very thoroughly into all the aspects of the situation which exists now and to bring down a report that will, I hope, be acceptable to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Committee which is selected on this occasion, following acceptance of the motion by both Houses, will have a lot of work to do and a lot of investigations to make. In the past the Committee has had tremendous cooperation from the officers concerned, and I have no doubt that that will continue. It is most important to have officers of high calibre and integrity such as we have had in the past. A tremendous amount of documents which have to be analysed are presented to the Committee. The Committee must have adequate staff to do this. I have no doubt that the staff will be available again to the Committee because this one inquiry - I know that others will come forward - will mean a tremendous amount of work. I support the reformation of this Committee. 
Although this Bill is set out on a single sheet of paper it represents a lot of money. There are only a few words in the Bill but many dollars are involved. The Stevedoring Industry Change Bill makes available certain money to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. This Bill proposes to increase from $1 to $1.50 - a 50 per cent increase - the rate of charge which can be imposed on the employment of class A waterside workers. A tremendous amount of money is involved. This legislation does not mean that the additional 50c will be charged immediately. This will be introduced by regulation. However, the legislation gives power to the Authority to make this charge. The waterside industry in Australia has been plagued with many problems over many years. It has not as yet been possible to solve those problems - at any rate not all of them. This industry is important to Australia because of our situation in the world. We need our ports in order to trade with other nations. 
Australia is a nation which can trade only through the medium of our ports although we can to a limited extent trade by air. 1 feel that the facilities for trade by air will be upgraded in the future. I have no doubt that in the future many of our perishable goods and concentrates will be flown overseas in greater tonnages than is the case today. Some of the increase in air freight will be attributable to the fact that ports around Australia are somewhat unreliable when it comes to transporting certain goods. I may have something to say about that in the future. Perishable goods cannot be left lying on the wharfs around Australia. They must be sent at the time they are due to be sent; otherwise not only will we lose the trade but also the commodities concerned will go to waste because the cost of storage is too great. 
Much has been said in the debate on this Bill about idle time ports. Idle time is paid for under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act. Idle time refers to the time when men report for work or are available for work in the various ports around Australia but are not in fact required to work on any one day. Idle time at ports can be measured, but there are many other areas which are never mentioned and in which there is a tremendous amount of idle time not only in manpower but also in relation to the transporting of goods by truck. As far as I know this idle time has never been measured or set out in any document, but it does involve a tremendous amount of money. This is a quite important aspect of the Bill. It assists the outports of Australia. Portland has been mentioned, but it is only one. There are ports right around Australia which will be assisted by this measure; they will be maintained at least in their present state. 
The total picture in Australia has not been looked at properly. It is about time that somebody did so. I have mentioned it. One of the things I spoke about when I entered this House 10 years ago was the tremendous cost of shifting cargo in Sydney from the waterside or vice versa. I think a little amount of work was done, particularly in relation to wool, when I inquired how many times a bale of wool was actually handled to get it from the shed door onto the ship. It was found that a bale was handled 80-odd times. If we build greater  and  still greater ports around cities such as Sydney and Melbourne, greater and still greater congestion and costs will be caused, not only on the wharf frontage itself but in moving the  cargo  to the wharf and onto the ship. These costs have never been measured and it is about time that they were. Of course there is very little congestion in the outports, and one of the objects of this Bill is to keep these ports open. 
This is an important area of activity, because Australia is one of the leading export nations of the world. A lot of countries rely on Australia very heavily for various commodities of food and fibre. Quite recently we had an example of this when people were clamouring for our wool. A couple of years ago they indicated that they did not want it. That story has now been told in very clear and loud terms. If we want to continue to trade and to maintain our overseas markets not only for meat but particularly for the products of our secondary industries, which have been expanding rapidly over the last few years, we must keep outports open at all costs. When I say 'at all costs' I am speaking not in terms of money but in terms of organisation within Australia. I mean that we should have a full study of the total situation to see that our ports are open and not congested as some are at present. 
Containerisation has attracted a lot of criticism from time to time. But if containerisation had not been introduced, transport charges in many areas today would have been quite intolerable. There may be some areas in which better utilisation could be made of this method or in which the type of container or ship could be improved, but the concept of containerisation is most important. 
To return to the small ports, it is important that their situation be considered not in isolation but as part of an overall study of Australia. This is the point that I am trying to make and have tried to make for many years. A total study must be made. We cannot walk into one small port and claim that the costs are too high. The Commonwealth Government - as well as the State governments - has a responsibility in this field. The total scene must be taken into consideration to see what it is costing and to measure the total congestion in some of the major Australian ports. The authorities would be quite surprised, I believe, at the figures that would be revealed by any such time and motion survey, if I may so describe it. 
There has always been a problem in relation to employer-employee relationships at ports. On occasions it has been said - I think it was said in the House again today - that not all the problems and not all the blame for disputes should be placed with the employee. In many cases no doubt the employer has to share the blame. But if the employer over the years had stood up to pressures which have been applied at Australian ports we would be a lot better off. But the employers, in the main, took the easy way out and consented to what was requested. In other words, they paid up and got their ships loaded. In their opinion the main consideration was to have their ships turned round. So on many occasions they gave in to pressures which were not always in the best interests of Australia. 
It has been mentioned also that the shipping companies and owners of ships prefer to load at major ports instead of moving into the smaller ports around Australia. It is not always understood that the shipping companies in certain categories of general cargo have a responsibility to go to a port where the cargo is situated, providing that the port is sufficiently large or well equipped to handle that cargo. Under our system of payment they have a responsibility to load certain cargoes in Australia during the year. In other words it is not charter cargo; it is general cargo on which a certain freight rate is struck. Therefore, the companies have a responsibility to call to the appropriate port. That is not always understood by people when discussing where a ship should or should not travel. So there is an area of responsibility on the Commonwealth, as has been suggested today, as well as the States in this regard. There is also an area of responsibility, of course, on the exporter, who in mo..t cases reaches agreement with the shipper in relation to cargo movements to and from Australia. 
We have seen some unfortunate incidents in recent times in relation to political strikes, if we may call them that. In my book these cannot be tolerated at any cost. An example of this was given, I think, in Sydney quite recently. Waterside workers thought that if they were to stop the movement of meat to America, this would have some effect on the price of meat in Australia. This is very misguided thinking indeed. It is not the responsibility of the Australian waterside workers to take a decision as to whether a commodity should be shipped overseas. If it had not been for the great production in Australia of commodities such as meat the waterside workers certainly would not be in their present position. In other words their jobs would have been vacant long ago had not these goods been available for export. To stop the export of meat to America or anywhere else will not solve the problem of the domestic price of Australian meat. 
Perhaps it would have been better for the waterside workers to examine the overall situation and see what has been happening over the years. In Australia as in many other countries, there has been a general drift to the congested areas in the major cities. This plus the weather conditions in Australia and the tremendous demand by overseas countries for our meat products has meant that there simply is not enough meat to go around. It is as simple as that. The only way in which the problem will be solved is to produce more meat. If the people of Australia can recognise this fact and if they try to cease the drift from the country areas to the city areas, then perhaps the situation relating to the necessary foodstuffs of the world will start to rectify itself. 
Unfortunately very good manpower is needed to produce good beef and other meats. The production of good meat cannot be learnt overnight or in a short space of time; such knowledge fakes generations to acquire from the point of view of processing and genetics. The Australian people should realise that the only way in which we can overcome this meat problem in Australia and elsewhere in the world is to produce more meat. The Opposition is supporting the Bill on the ground that it is necessary to make these payments in relation to the outer ports, but that is only a part  of the  total scene.  1  think I should draw the attention of the House to the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in which he made particular reference to the purpose of the Bill. Because of statements which have been made today I believe that this reference is appropriate. The Minister said: 
The purpose of the Stevedoring industry Charge Bill 1973 is to amend the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1971 to permit the  charge  to be imposed at rates up to $1.50 per man-hour for class A waterside workers. The amendment is necessary because the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has found itself unable 10 meet its financial commitments with regard to class A waterside workers from the charge revenue. An increase is now needed because of changes that have occurred in wage rates and conditions of employment and because of further increases which will affect the level of payments to be made by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in respect of long service leave and idle time. 
That obviously is the main purpose of the Bill. The Minister went on to say that permission had been obtained to use part of this levy to finance the guaranteed minimum wage in non-permanent ports, to which 1 referred earlier. 
The main point is that there will be a major increase in this area and the only people who will pay this increase will be those who import to and export from this country. This increased cost will fall back on the major Australian exporting industries; it will go right back to the land where most of these exports come from. The additional charges eventually will find their way back to the people who produce the goods and export them from Australia. 
That is why it is so important that the total scene should be examined when considering these costs so that we do not proceed - as 1 see it, at all events - to build bigger and bigger ports. This has been done in Sydney where there is tremendous congestion. It is an area - forgive me,  Mr Speaker  - that grew like Topsy as the first port in Australia, where the small ships came and the development followed on the shore. There now exists a barrier between the ships, the commercial area and the areas of productivity beyond that, either in the factories or the farms, and the produce must be taken through this barrier, lt is not real life in the 1970s to proceed in this manner. We must open out. 
There are examples of this situation around the world. New York was one of the biggest areas of congestion in the world but the shipping has now completely left the island on which New York stands. Manhattan Island is a graveyard; the ships have gone over to New Jersey and the cycle has started all over again. This was the only solution for such a congested area as New York, and Sydney is building to a stage where such action must be taken. 1 believe some moves have been made. 1 only wish that they had been made some time ago. But in looking at this sort of Bill, where a tremendous amount of money is involved in picking up the extra charges incurred in the handling of cargoes around Australia, we must taken note of the total situation throughout Australia. We must not continue to build these congested areas which will necessitate future Bills of this nature coming before this House. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to  8  p.m. 
Can the Treasurer clarify the position concerning the Government's proposals regarding local government finance? Will local government representation be admitted to the Australian Loan Council? If so, on what basis? Will councils have access to loan moneys raised by the Commonwealth on the same conditions as those now available to the States? Will the Treasurer also indicate the situation concerning the reported proposals for local government authorities to have access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission? 
The action taken by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  this afternoon to stifle debate on this important measure is to be regretted. To me, it points to what we can expect in this House in the future under this Government. I was here when it first came into this Parliament as the Government. It talked about open government, democratic government, but when what has been always recognised in this Parliament as one of the most important pieces of legislation is brought before, this House in the first Parliament under this Government, the gag is applied. Last year the previous Government introduced many amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1972. On that occasion we debated that legislation for some 19 hours. That time has been cut in half by this Government. There seems to be a reluctance by the Government and the Leader of the House to debate this measure. There is also a reluctance, judging from statements made on the Government side of the House, to allow honourable members on this side to debate the measure. It is claimed by honourable members opposite that we know nothing about conciliation and arbitration or about unions. There are 2 sides to this penny and it would be as well for the Government to understand that. 
This legislation directly involves millions of people in Australia while indirectly it involves all Australia. The majority of people cannot be employed if we do not have employers, men of initiative to set up employment opportunities, to put in capital - in many cases, risk capital - to set up factories and build industries. Somebody has to take the initiative. What would be the situation if we did not have employers and the billions of dollars being invested in employment opportunities for the people of this country? During the last 23 years we have seen a complete change in this country in the building of industrial works. It is as a result of the policies of the past 23 years that millions of people now employed in Australia can be employed under good conditions. Let us not lose sight of that fact. Obviously members of the Opposition understand the total scene in relation to this Bill. They understand that it is brought forward entirely for the sake of the employee, certainly not for the employer. But this job opportunity must be given by employers throughout Australia if we are to put our work force to good use. 
The employment record in Australia compared with the employment record in other parts of the world - I can go back 10 or 20 years- shows that Australia stands second to none. That was the situation in the past and it will be interesting to see what the situation will be in the future. If the last 3 months have been any guide - people can see exactly what is happening to capital investment in this country - the Government might be wise to take heed of the situation. Capital available for investment from overseas has dropped $ 1,050m in the first 3 months of this calendar year - January, February and March- below the amount for January, February and March 1972. In that 3 months period in 1972 we had a net inflow of capital into this country of, from memory, $435m. In the last 3 months we have had a net outflow of capital of something like $621m, a difference of over $ 1,000m. No country can stand that sort of situation for very long without very serious consequence to its development. It is this development which has made possible the jobs that we are talking about in dealing with this legislation. The Minister for Labour, who is in charge of this Bill  -  I notice that unfortunately he is not in the House at the moment - should understand the situation, although often I think he does understand it a little better than he says he does sometimes when making public statements. 
It was suggested by this Government when its members were in opposition that if they were to hold the reins of government they would be in a better position to understand the unions, that they would be in a better position to avoid strikes and that, therefore, there would be greater harmony in the work force in Australia. It is interesting to note that the Commonwealth Statistician is reported on 17th April 1973 as saying that in January last year 773,700 was lost in wages and in January this year the loss amounted to $1,365,700. He said that there were 153 disputes in January this year and 125 disputes in January last year. That does not speak very well for this Government and its claim that it Would understand the situation in relation to conciliation and arbitration and the work force generally in Australia, or that it would do a better job than the previous Government did. It will be interesting to see what happens in the future in relation to all those things. As I have said, in relation to our capital situation in Australia we must view all things with great care. Inflation is rearing its head in no uncertain fashion and it will have a detrimental effect on many people in the wages and salary area, including those who are involved under this legislation. Unless this Government takes note of that situation it is obvious from the figures which have been given that the position will become extremely serious. 
This Bill threatens to break down conciliation and arbitration as we have known it in the past. This step, I believe, will be very detrimental to Australia. One has to go back some years to recognise what the system has meant to Australia. We know that many years ago when the work force could not get a reasonable deal it looked in many cases for some means of conciliation and arbitration so that its interests would be looked after. This system has been with us for a long time. I believe it to be a good system. But we cannot have it both ways. We cannot have collective bargaining and at the same time expect to get conciliation and arbitration because this is just not possible. There must be a recognition of this by both parties - employees and employers - if we are to have settlements of disputes in this country. But, of course, this has not always been the case. If we have collective bargaining I do not know what will happen in this country. Evidence overseas has indicated that collective bargaining has its real problems, although this depends largely on the way in which the legislation is drawn up. 
The Minister indicated in his second reading speech that the Government had a clear mandate in regard to this legislation. I question that claim. From whom has it a clear mandate? The Minister has in operation at the moment a committee to look at points in relation to conciliation and arbitration. If he has all the answers and if he has a clear mandate in regard to what he intends to do, why have a committee? Since this Government has been in office it has been setting up committees and commissions at a great pace. I do not know how many have been set up, but to set them up and not to wait for their considered reports is, to my mind, a useless expenditure of public money. I ask the Minister whether he has consulted those who are affected by this legislation. No doubt he has consulted with the employees. There is no doubt about that at all because the employees or their representatives have been stating what should in fact be done. But has he consulted with the employers in relation to these things? As I have said, the employer is all important in legislation of this kind because it is the employer who has to find the wherewithal to set up the various industries throughout Australia. 
Let me pause for a moment to say something about collective bargaining as against the conciliation and arbitration system. If in fact - this may have been stated earlier this afternoon - the Government wishes to introduce legislation in regard to collective bargaining, let it do so, but it should not try to bring it in through the back door. That is what is happening in regard to this legislation at the moment. We cannot have lopsided legislation in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As I see it at the moment the legislation will be lopsided. It favours the employee. It takes away from all employees sanctions and areas of responsibility, so far as I can see, and it leaves intact those provisions so far as the employers are concerned. I understand that when collective bargaining arrangements are made in some countries a contract with a company is made, probably for a period of 3 years or thereabouts, and the agreement lays down precisely what is going to happen during that time. In that instance the employee and the employer know precisely what their position will be for the next 3 years. Under this type of legislation nobody will really know what in fact will happen, except that probably there will be many problems. Therefore I suggest that if the Government wants to introduce legislation on collective bargaining it should come forward with the legislation and not try, as I have said, to do it through the back door. But no doubt it has bad its instructions and this is the way it intends to do it. 
In relation to sanctions it is interesting to note in the Act - no doubt these words have been in it for a long time - the words which describe in section 2 sub-section (d) the chief objects of the Act. Sub-section (d) states: 
to provide for the observance and enforcement of agreements and awards made in settlement of industrial disputes; 
How can we get that sort of message into this new legislation? It is built into the present Act. That is the objective of the Act. A chief objective of the Act is the observance and enforcement of agreements. So far as I can see this Bill before the House takes out of the 
Act all responsibility on employees in relation to standing by agreements that are made. The Minister for Labour was adamant for some time about the direction that he was going to take before he introduced this legislation. It is interesting to note a statement which he made in February this year. A report of his remarks stated: 
The Federal Government is to launch  a  vigorous campaign against employers who breach industrial laws. 
The Minister for Labour,  Mr Cameron,  yesterday outlined proposals to speed up the prosecution o employers who did not comply with awards and safety regulations. 
I say at the outset that safety regulations should be .applied at all times. I have always been an advocate of that sort of thing. But what I do not like about that statement by the Minister is that he was directing his attack in one direction and in one direction only. As I said, if there is to be harmony and agreement in industry there must be a sense of responsibility on the part of both the employer and the employee. The Minister has been reported on a number of occasions as making statements similar to the one I have fust outlined. 
In regard to sanctions - and this is appropriate to the sort of message that I have just been relating - apparently the Government intends to carry this legislation through the House. The effect will be that when an agreement is made there will be no responsibility, as far as the employee is concerned, to stand by that agreement. This is the way in which I read the Bill. If there is no responsibility on one side I fail to see how any of the agreements can in fact be observed, especially when one considers many aspects of the Bill. 
Something should be said about the area of the legislation which deals with the public interest. I think that the Minister referred to this area in his second reading speech. I cannot see how the Bill is related to the public interest. Of course, consideration of the public interest is important. If it is not important, with so many people involved, to consider the public interest, then what is the Bill all about? Surely it should be to the advantage of any legislation which is to pass through this House for the public interest to be taken into consideration. It does not matter whether the legislation under consideration is concerned with economics, conciliation and arbitration or any other matters. The Bill we are considering at the moment seems to leave aside the public interest. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The Bill provides that the Commission shall not refuse to certify an agreement made in settlement of  an  industrial dispute unless the certification of it would cause a major detriment to the public interest. 
Who will sit in judgment and how will such a proposal work out? These are the questions that 1 ask the Minister. 
I cannot see in the Bill any opportunity for the public interest to be taken into account. After all, was not this consideration the whole crux of conciliation and arbitration legislation in the Commonwealth? We did not have the power under the Constitution of the Commonwealth to do any more than we have done up to the present - that is, to establish the conciliation and arbitration machinery that will in fact settle a dispute. If the conciliation and arbitration legislation was brought into being to settle disputes, obviously the public interest must be taken into consideration. As I have said, consideration of the public interest is a very important aspect of the Bill before us. As I see it this legislation is neglecting the public interest. If this is the case then 1 believe disputes will increase rather than decrease in the future. In this type of legislation we must at all times take into consideration the interests of the people themselves. 
The Government in this legislation has introduced measures concerning the amalgamation of various unions. If I remember rightly previous legislation brought down in 1972 dealt with this subject of amalgamations. The legislation now before the Parliament indicates to me that amalgamation of unions will be able to take place with very little interest being taken by the members themselves. I appreciate the point that it is up to the union members to take an interest in their own affairs. I also appreciate that any major change involving the amalgamation of unions should take place on a more democratic basis than is proposed under the Bill that we are considering. I do not believe the proposal that an amalgamation can take place with a majority of those voting - which could be very few indeed in the case of some unions - is in the best interests of the union movement. No [ doubt there are far too many unions in Australia Iia at the moment - I think that in all there are more than 300 unions - but I do not believe that this piece of legislation now before the House is the right way to achieve amalgamations in relation to those unions. 
The Bill before the House at present, the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill, is really a repeat performance of what happened last year. In other words, it provides for the temporary provisions introduced then to be carried on for a further 12 months for the simple reason that the answers to the many problems that have been raised on the waterfront in Australia have not as yet been found. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  mentioned early in his speech that there had been no Government action in relation to these problems in recent times, and therefore this was the reason for introducing this Bill at this time. I think he would be the first to agree that there has been a considerable change, not only in Australia but also all over the world, in stevedoring activities in recent years. It was during the time of changeover that the temporary provisions we are discussing were introduced in an effort to find a solution to the problems arising from the new set of circumstances which were operating not only in Australia but also around the world. 
Australia is not unique in this problem. The honourable member probably knows as well as I do that many ports in the world have had major problems in this regard. I would say from my experience that the ports that have been forward-looking enough to take the concept in total and not in bits and pieces are the ports around the world which have come closer to solving the problem than have those ports that have taken it piecemeal. This change is no doubt what the Government will be studying in the next 12 months because the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has indicated that he hopes that a solution will be found to the many problems and that he will be able to bring down permanent legislation within the next 12 months, if not before. I wish him luck in that exercise. 
Mention has also been made this evening of the activities of the waterfront, the industry's shortcomings and its problems. One of the great difficulties on the waterfront is, of course, supervision. Years ago, for many reasons adequate supervision was not available. If the Minister for Labour, who is at the table, is to handle the total situation he should look very closely at that point. He would be the first to agree that where a lot of men are working together supervision is very important. In the stevedoring industry supervision would be somewhat easier than in many other industries where personnel are scattered around Australia. At least in the port authorities they work in relatively concentrated areas and for that reason supervision should be easier than it is in other industries. Over the years the lack of adequate supervision has been a shortcoming in relation to waterside workers. 
I will cite figures to illustrate the changes that have taken place. In 1965, 22,744 men were registered for employment on the Australian waterfront. At 30th June 1971 16,853 men were registered at all ports. At 30th June 1972 the figure had dropped to 14,592. Obviously the trend is continuing, mainly because of the changes around the world which I have mentioned. Tremendous expansion has taken place in shipbuilding and the capital investment in both general cargo vessels and bulk cargo vessels has greatly increased. The introduction of different types of shipping has meant that fewer men are required at ports, both in ships and on shore. This trend will continue. It is necessary to determine for how long the trend will continue and how the men to be replaced can be employed in other occupations. As more container ships and bulk handling equipment come into operation fewer men will be required on the waterfront. 
The honourable member for Phillip mentioned the problems related to peaks and troughs of waterfront employment. Employment in ports differs from employment in other spheres. Shippers and shipping companies expect ports around the world to be open for 24 hours a day. They do not expect ports ever to close. When a ship is in port the master looks for labour to turn the ship around quickly. A decision must be reached on the amount of labour to be employed as a percentage of the cargo moving through the port. 
Calculations must be made in respect of the peaks and troughs of employment. The honourable member for Phillip put forward an argument that we have heard on many occasions; that is, that it is better to have surplus 'abour than to have idle ships. 
These are complex questions which must be examined very carefully by governments or personnel dealing with such situations. The co-operation of governments, shipowners and all people concerned in shipping operations is essential if solutions are to be found to these problems. The Government cannot do it alone. It must have the co-operation of all people involved. I have said before that the total scene needs to be looked at in respect of cargo handling. Again the co-operation of all concerned is necessary. On 25th May 1972, when we were debating the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill, the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  led for the Opposition. He said on that occasion: 
The Government cannot allow the economy of the port of Newcastle or that district to decline. 
He was referring to certain things that had happened in that area. He went on: 
It has to come up with answers. This does not apply only to the port of Newcastle; it applies to every port throughout the Commonwealth, with the possible exception of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle. All other ports are vitally affected by the substantial change that has taken place in the handling of cargoes throughout Australia. 
That is quite true. Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle were the only ports which initially were adopted by the container handlers operating to this country. They were the major ports concerned in the change. Later in his speech the present Minister for Transport, referring to the Government of that time, said: 
You just cannot make a change overnight and expect people to carry the result of decisions which are made by a minority of the people. 
He was referring to the number of people employed in the industry. Earlier in my speech I cited figures which indicated a decline in waterfront employment because of changing circumstances. The present Government has this problem on its plate and it has to be resolved. In seeking to resolve the problem I hope that the Government looks at the total scene and not only at the ports. It is necessary to look beyond the ports to see what is happening on land as well as on sea. The frequency of ship arrivals must be considered, as well as shipping schedules, traffic density and congestion in port areas. A large proportion of the cost arises in those areas, and perhaps the smaller ports could be utilised to some extent to reduce congestion in the larger ports. 
I referred earlier to decisions which have been taken in other parts of the world - Europe and the United States of America - wherever container cargoes are handled. The Matson Line was one of the early operators in the Pacific area. It moved from its quarters on the west coast of the United States to an area in which it could gain more freedom to move. This has been happening all round Australia. Recently a lot has been said about setting up new cities in Australia. Shipping and associated problems must not be neglected by the Commonwealth and State governments which have responsibility in these areas. The total scene must be taken into consideration if our problems are to be solved. I am not talking only from something I have read, although I have read a lot about this subject. I have had some experience. I took the trouble at an early stage of the development of container cargoes to have a look for myself at what was happening. There is no substitute for first hand experience. In areas where the total scene has been studied the economics of operations are far better than they are in the more congested areas where operators have stayed in the same place and have endeavoured to make a go of it, sometimes in quite impossible circumstances. 
The total scene in relation to shipping has changed around the world. A few years ago who would have talked of tankers of 250,000 tons? Today there is talk of tankers of 500,000 tons, and on the drawing board there is possibly a tanker of 1,000,000 tons. That illustrates the tremendous changes that are taking place. Some European ports have planned for developments into the next century. There is great competition in that area and operations are not conducted on week to week planning or even year to year planning. They have laid plans right through into the next century. They know precisely where they are going. This is a very interesting exercise which can be done only on these terms. We cannot plan this sort of operation. It is far too big to plan in any small way. We must look well ahead at where we are going. Where we are going in relation to shipping around the world is clear to me at the moment. This evidence is available. But as far as Australia is concerned, which is equally as important as any other country in the world, unless the Government of the day looks at the total scene, we have no chance in life of breaking down the costs which are presently rising. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has spelled out many of the costs involved this evening, and therefore I will not reiterate them now. It is clear from the figures he cited to the House that costs are increasing and this trend will continue until somebody is big enough to do what is needed in this country, namely, look at the total scene. 
-Clause 5 which we are now discussing is a most important section of the Bill because it deals with the functions of the Australian National Airlines Commission. This is what the argument is all about in relation to what the future position may be. Let me say at the outset that the dual airline system in Australia has been built up over 20-odd years by previous governments and despite what might be said by Government supporters today it has been built up very successfully. I think that Australia generally is proud of the service. This is what we want to preserve. We feel a little concerned, as has been mentioned in the debate, over this Bill. Statements have been made by Government supporters and the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation has made clear his intentions. The Minister has made a number of statements relating to this Bill. I think if we dealt with those statements the people would only become more confused. If this Bill becomes an Act we can rely only on the Act for interpretation. If it becomes an Act it has to be interpreted and that is what the Opposition supporters are concerned about. 
It is along this line that I raise my protest on this Bill. Clause 5 reads, in part: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to provide to the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth, for reward, aviation, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission, 
This Bill would, if passed, give the Commission very wide powers in relationto resources. Regardless of what the Minister may have said in his second reading speech and regardless of what he may subsequently have said in this debate it is still the Act itself which has to be interpreted in regard to the. services that may be carried out by the Commission on behalf of the Government and the people of Australia. My main point is that anything done by this Bill or any futureBill which upsets the dual airline system in Australia is a discredit to this nation. We have seen this service built up over a number of years. It is not easy to build up a successful airline service in a country consisting of 13 million people in an area of about 3,000,000 square miles. 
The Opposition is concerned that the dual airline service will in fact be disrupted if the powers set out in this Bill are put into operation. I ask the Minister: Why has he included these clauses in the Bill if he does not want to use them? If he does not want to use the powers or if the Government has no intention to use them why not take them out? It is of not a bit of use for the Minister to make certain statements in the House if he leaves he Bill in its present form. He should remove these clauses from the. Bill. 
The Bills before the House today cover a rather wide range of Government expenditure. One cannot have other than apprehension about what the future economic situation in Australia will be, when viewing the total scene as we see it at the moment. Our recent current account for the last 3 months - that is, the third quarter, as it is known - indicates the strong position in which the previous Government left the economy. In other words, we find in the current account a very strong improvement in relation to all our exports. But when we look at the capital account, we find a completely reverse situation. I repeat what I said in the House a few weeks ago: I believe the Government should be well aware of what is happening in this area and should take note of the situation, because no country can affort to reverse its situation in one 3- month period by over $ 1,000m, which has happened here. 
As I said, the accounts which we are studying cover a wide field. One such area is the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I notice that a new sum of $1,141,000 appears in this account but I can find no indication of where this money will be spent and exactly what it is for. I suggest that later in the debate, if the opportunity is presented - we hope it is - the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  might indicate precisely what will happen to that amount of $1,141,000. This morning, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development referred to the excessive price of land in the city areas. We are all well aware of this; the competition for land in these areas is very severe. But the Minister did not mention in the course of his answer to the question what would be the situation if, for instance, decentralisation did take place in these areas. 
He did not mention what would be the price of land in areas other than the metropolitan areas of the Commonwealth. I believe that this is the area in which the Government should be endeavouring to encourage development - beyond the major cities of Australia. If this were done, the price of land would be considerably cheaper and the pressure would be considerably less than it is at the moment in the various cities around Australia. 
I want to deal today with a number of statements which have been made by various Ministers of the Government. One cannot help but feel a little disturbed at some of these statements. Perhaps it was all very well when the now Government was in Opposition for various statements to be made, but when the situation is reversed and statements are made by Ministers then, of course, the public and honourable members take note and a lot of consideration is given to those statements. I refer firstly to a statement made in this House on 17 May 1973 by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in relation to home building societies. This statement has had repercussions around Australia and I believe it is very much to be regretted that a statement of this nature was made. In reply to a question on that day referring to home building societies throughout Australia, the Treasurer, amongst other things, said: 
They are the kinds of organisation that cut across all the canons of prudent finance; that is, they borrow short and lend long. 
Building societies have been operating for a long time. In Britain, they have been running since 1775; in another couple of years, there will have been 2 centuries of them. In Australia, they have been operating since 1859. In my own State of Western Australia, where we have excellent building societies, they have been operating since 1862. Surely the operators of these societies not only in this country but also beyond this country have had a tremendous experience in this field and have done a tremendous job. In fact, when the first building society was established in Western Australia, there were only 17,000 people in the entire State. So the building societies have had experience from the very beginning of the development of that State. 
The Treasurer says that they borrow short. As I see it, it is a theory-practice to make o statement like that. I might say at this point that I have been in this House for  a  number of years and listened with considerable interest, to many of the speeches the present Treasurer made in this House when he was on the Opposition benches. I respected many of them, as I respect his opinions. However, it is unfortunate that that theory statement should have been made because it is not the fact in practice. The practice, of course, is that the building societies do borrow some of their money short, but they also borrow some of their money over a longer term and, above all, the societies - that is, at least the good societies - certainly have plenty of back up funds. I think one must investigate very thoroughly the exact position of these establishments before one makes this sort of statement. 
The Treasurer said: 'They lend long'. It is well known that they do. In many cases, the building societies write contracts for home owners covering 25 years or more. But what is the actual practice? The average length of loan in the Commonwealth, as I understand it, is around 8 years; it is not 20 or 25 years. There is a big difference between the actual - that is, the practice - and the theory. How many times have economists around the world voiced various economic theories and become completely unstuck? I regret very much that the Treasurer made that statement and I regret also that I have to stand here and say these words. But I think it is important to indicate to the people of Australia that these societies - in the main, at oil events - are sound. They have been operating for a long time and have tremendous experience. There should be a close analysis of their actual position before such statements are made. I know that the statement has been made previously, not in the House but outside, that building societies that borrow short and lend long cannot operate. The proof of the pudding ia in the factual operation of these societies, the back up funds which they have and the actual practice which they have been carrying out over many years. 
The second statement to which I want to refer was made in this House on 23 May 1973 during a debate on rural industries. It was one of a number of statements in the same vein which were made by the now Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  He was referring to a number of policies of the previous Government and indicating that the previous Government did not carry them out. This is the statement of the Minister for Immigration, to which I want to refer: 
Their, was another very interesting policy speech in which it was said that the cost of petrol is to be no more than 4c a gallon above the city price anywhere in Australia. That is an Interesting point. Have honourable members opposite forgotten about than one? Perhaps they ought to have a look at it 
Well, we will have another look at it. The inference contained in that statement is that nothing was done about that policy by the Australian Country Party and the previous Government. These are the sorts of things that are being said by Ministers and which go out to the public, but which are completely false. The original speech that was made in the House in relation to this matter was made on 12 May 1965. My memory of what has taken place over the years is very good. Nevertheless, I asked the Parliamentary Library to supply an analysis and tabulation of the facts to refresh my memory of events. At that time the appropriate Minister outlined the proposals of the Government After some years amendments were required and on 18 September 1969 a statement was made in the House detailing the amendments necessary to make the scheme a little more flexible. It has been operating since 1965-1966 rand has proved to be worth while. It was introduced to bring to people in all parts of Australia a range of five fuels at prices no more than 4d a gallon above ruling city prices. It was decided that for the purposes of the scheme Sydney prices would be used as the basis of prices to be charged in the Northern Territory. 
For the benefit of the Minister and the House I will outline what has happened. The scheme commenced in October 1965 and was designed to reduce the wholesale prices of petroleum products in rural areas to within 3.3c a gallon of capital city prices. Sydney was taken as the relevant capital city for the purpose of Northern Territory prices. In order to show the significance of the policy which was introduced in 1965 I will cite the payments made in respect of the scheme. In 1965-66, $10,262,000 was paid; 1966-67, $15,968,000; 1967-68, $17,569,000; 1968-69, $19,264,000; 1969-70, $22,367,000; 1970-71, $23,829,000; 1971-72, $25,230,000; and in 1972-73 payment is estimated at $26,800,000. So much for the policy at which it is suggested we should look again. I and many other Australians are concerned that a responsible Minister should claim that nothing had been done about a policy which is very important to many people in Australia. One wonders what is to happen to the policy which was instituted by the previous Government and has benefited so many people if the present Government is to take no more interest in it than has been indicated by one of its Ministers. 
I turn now to deal with the wool industry. I have had very little to say about the wool industry in this session because the facts have spoken for themselves. On 10 May 1973 the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  answered a question in his capacity of representative in this House of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  In his answer he referred to an amendment proposed by the Labor Party to a Bill assented to in October 1972. Labor made it a red hot propaganda issue during the election campaign. He stated that the Labor Party had moved an amendment seeking that within 3 months the proposed plan for the wool industry be made available for examination as most sections of the industry wanted details of the plan. He said 'within 3 months', as appears in the Hansard report, but the amendment moved by him on 12 October il972 did not refer to a period of 3 months. It stated 'within 6 months'. The difference of 3 months is very important in this issue. 
The legislation was amended to bring together at that time the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission to form a corporation as from 1 January 1973. The purpose of the amendment moved by the Labor Party at that time was to make the operative date 30 June 1973. In other words, Labor was seeking to give the Australian Wool Corporation 6 months to produce a recommendation to the Government. When the present Minister for Northern Development was answering the question on 10 May and to some extent castigating the Corporation for not bringing down a recommendation, saying that Labor wanted it within 3 months, he was citing a period different from that which appeared in Labor's proposed amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Had it been carried the Corporation would still have another month in which to produce its recommendation. Statements such as that made by the present Minister for Northern Development create wrong impressions. Despite what was said at that time about the wool industry, today it is in great heart This situation has been brought about despite what was said about the legislation when it was introduced and repeated- when it was amended to amalgamate the 2 authorities in October of last year. 
Section 41 of the Act is a major provision. I mentioned earlier the healthy condition of our current account. An examination shows that a major factor in that condition is the wool industry. People who know what they are talking about appreciate the connection between the introduction of the legislation and the present healthy condition of our current account. Much unfounded criticism has been levelled over the years at the previous Government's treatment of the wool industry. It overcame tremendous odds, details of which I  do  not have time to spell out now. Supporters of the present Government should stop their criticism. The Government will have to stand up to the pressures which will be brought to bear on the wool industry. It has always had pressures and always will. The testing time is to come for this Government. 
I have no doubt that the Corporation will stand up to pressure. The question is whether the Government will stand up to the pressures brought about through section 41 of the Act. If the Government stands by what has been said in this House by its supporters in the last few years, all the work done over the last few years by the previous Government and by wool growers will be undone. I ask the Government not to run away from section 41 of the Act, to stand behind the Corporation and the wool industry, the greatest industry in this country. It will be there for a long time to come, but if it does not have the support of the Government, regardless of any legislation that might be introduced - 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the following reports and proposals for variations of the plan of the layout of the City of Canberra and its environs: The 52nd series, the 53rd series and the 54th series. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the reports. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and refers to the establishment of naval support facilities which are being developed at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia and, in particular, to the housing requirements necessary to personnel to operate that base. In view of the statement made by the Minister for Defence on 22 August last, is the Minister for Housing in a position to say when the houses will be constructed, how many are involved, where they will be located and the standard of the homes to be built? 
The heading of this Bill is: 
A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to enable the Australian Parliament to Control Prices. 
It says little else. In effect, what the Government is seeking is for the Government itself to be able to do certain things with certain prices. This has not been spelt out in the Bill, in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or by any Government supporter who has spoken on this measure. No honourable member has stated exactly what the Government intends to do and how it intends to control prices. In the Prime Minister's second reading speech he said: 
This Parliament possesses no comprehensive power over prices. 
He then went on to say: 
The Government believes it is unreasonable that the Australian Parliament should lack a power possessed by the national parliament and national government of nearly every comparable country,. 
This afternoon we have heard honourable members talking about other nations and about other parliaments of the world which have this power. They have referred to the United States of America, Britain, European and other countries, yet in the next breath they have talked about the price of meat and how we in this country are being controlled by external forces and economies. 
Meat was referred to repeatedly by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  by the  speaker  before him and, I think, by almost every  speaker  from the Government side this afternoon. On the one hand, they said that America and Europe have price control and, on the other hand, they are asking us to give them the same power, apparently, to take the price of meat and other foodstuffs to the level which exists in those countries. The policies which were adopted by the previous Government over a quarter of a century have kept the price of meat in this country far below that applying in America, any country in Europe or anywhere else in the world. If this Government continues with the policies it introduced in the last Budget it will do precisely the same thing. This is apparently what it wants to do by the introduction of this Bill. We have the cheapest meat in the world today but we will not have it tomorrow. The only way that we can maintain the present situation in our industries is by deflecting back into those industries some of the revenue that comes from them. 
This Government in the last Budget has done precisely the opposite. It has applied not a Brisbane line but a Sydney-Melbourne line. The Government is taking the wealth from the producing areas of this country and channelling it into the major cities. It is taking away that initiative and enterprise which the previous Government maintained for a number of years. If the Government wants us to obtain cheaper commodities, well worth their price at the values of this country and not those of America or Europe, it is going the wrong way about achieving this objective. Those facts indicate just how much the Government understands the situation. I have used only one example of rising prices. I could use plenty of them. The Government has said that meat prices are being controlled by external economies. The Government supporters say that we should look at what is happening in America and Europe in relation to price fixing policies. The position prevailing in those places at present was not created in the last year or two. It has ben going on for some time. 
Let me warn the Government that if it continues with policies such as those contained in the Budget which was introduced into this House a few weeks ago it will take this country to precisely the same position" as those other countries. One basic rule in life is that one looks after the breakfast table and the people. One thing for which a government of a country can never be forgiven is putting its people in a position where they either run out of food or find it is too dear to buy. We have done certain things in this country over the years. The Coombs report is absolutely full of details of those actions. Apparently this Government will take action which, in the main, will take away initiatives and take money out of the producing areas which create the wealth of this country. I have said in the House before that there is only one place where wealth is obtained for a nation, and that is out of the soil. Once that fact is neglected a government is on the road down and out. There is no wealth in the streets of Sydney and Melbourne - not an ounce of it. Wealth cannot be obtained out of bitumen. 
I have no objection whatsoever to raising the standard of living in this country. It is one of the highest in the world at present and the reason is because of the policies of the last 25 years to which I have referred. If the Government continues with its present policies it is heading for great trouble indeed. This Bill, under the circumstances, is rather remarkable. The Government has been in office for about 9' months. In that time the Government has brought down a number of measures. The currency has been revalued on 2 occasions. On both occasions it was said that the revaluation woud help to reduce prices. What has happened? Honourable members should ask the housewives. Prices have still risen. The Government brought in a 25 per cent reduction in tariffs across the board. It said that that would reduce prices. Again I suggest that honourable members ask the housewives. Have they got any cheaper food on the table? They have gained nothing from that particular action. 
The Government has now introduced a measure concerning interest rates. Does the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  who is at the table, suggest that by increasing interest rates by an average of 2 per cent prices will be reduced? Of course they will not. Nobody seems to know the new interest rates. I hope the Minister will inform the House of the exact position. The Government has increased taxes and other items to which I have already referred when speaking about many industries in this country. The Government introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Government said this was another measure to reduce costs in this country or at least to take some note of the prices situation. All these measures and many more have been introduced. The Government has now brought down a Budget involving nearly $12,000m, representing an increase of 18.9 per cent on last year. It is a highly inflationary Budget; that cannot be denied. Having introduced all these measures the Government now blames the Constitution for the present inflationary situation. 
The Constitution of this country has served it very well for 72 years. I do not think anybody will deny that our forefathers who framed this Constitution were quite wise guys. They were very wise. Of course, there was another ele ment, that of the States, which this Government seems to have forgotten about, wants to forget about or would like to dismiss. The States have their constitutional powers also. It will be a very sorry day for this country if this Government is successful in doing what it is proposing to do not only in these measures but also in a number of other measures such as proposing to take away the powers of the States and centering them in Canberra. If that happened we would really have a SydneyMelbourne line. The States have had power to control prices since federation. They can use that power if they so desire. I read a newspaper today which stated that the Premier of New South Wales would offer assistance to this Government if it is dinkum in its prices policy and wants to utilise the powers of the States. As I see it, this Government does not wish to co-operate with the States in particular measures. In fact, all the evidence that we have seen in more recent months is that it does not wish to co-operate. In fact, the Government wants centralised power in Canberra. I do not think the people should forget that. 
The Government after taking certain measures and introducing a Budget a few weeks ago blames the Constitution and wishes to have control over prices moved to Canberra. It wishes to do so against all the evidence that is available all around the world. It is no good honourable members opposite saying that is not the case. All the evidence points to failure in various countries which have tried to control prices in these particular areas. 
My friend has been sleeping somewhere. He has never heard me say that once. If the honourable member had listened to me from the beginning of my speech he surely would have realised - even an infant or a kindergarten child could understand - that I was saying that prices policies have not been successful all around the world. I have never said that I wanted an incomes and prices policy. One of the first things which I did when I became a member of this Parliament was to conduct an extensive survey of various nations which had tried a particular prices policy over the years. I did that because the Opposition at the time said that it wanted to fix prices. I could not find one country that had been successful in attempting to control prices. That situation is the same today. 
As I have mentioned briefly, the Government seems to have a total disregard for Australia's big industries. I refer to them as big industries because some of our primary industries, for instance the wool industry, are the biggest in the nation. Our mining industry - again a base industry - is growing.  I  heard the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  refer to the way and quantity in which minerals were being exported from this country. That position flows on from the policies adopted by the previous Government. A Western Australian should know something about what was done in that State some years ago to encourage industries. What is happening now? There is no extension of this policy. The balance of payments documents show that in the first 3 months that this Government was in office more than $ 1,000m went out of this country compared with what was previously coming into the country in the area of capital investment. Changes do not happen overnight in relation to the effects of this Government's policy. They will take some time. Industry at large is very hesitant as to what the Government might do in the future. How will the primary industries as a whole face up to the future in view of the measures taken by the Government in its Budget that was brought down in this House only a few weeks ago? What is required - and what the LiberalCountry Party did for some 25 years - is the creation of incentives to increase productivity. Controls such as the Government is expecting to bring in by this measure are not incentives to produce; they are the very opposite. If we want more production we should do just the opposite to what the Government is trying to do in this measure. All the evidence right around the globe which one may like to study indicates that when you introduce controls you get less - not more - comparatively. 
The Government is taking great quantities of money - million of dollars - from various industries and pouring it into our cities. I have nothing against cities but  I  suggest that if the Government continues with these policies we are in for lots of trouble. If the Government considers that price control is the answer as it apparently does, it should get round the table wim the States, which have the power, and endeavour to work out something. I do not think this has really been tried. Some shadow boxing has been taking place between the States and the Commonwealth. I seem to remember a statement being made a few weeks ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that it would not be necessary in the future to have Premiers Conferences in the way they have been held previously. What sort of atmosphere does this create? What sort of climate does it create with the States when a statement of that nature is made? We cannot get all the co-operation we might expect to get from State government when statements such as that are made. I have listened with great interest to the speeches made in this House. No doubt one can turn them up in Hansard. All the speeches I have noticed indicate that the Federal Government of today does not want to have anything to do with the States in the future. It set up a mechanism whereby local government councils forming themselves into regions can make applications to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Nobody knows what that means as yet, but still the Government set it up. 
All the evidence points to the fact that this Government wants central control in Canberra, and this measure, as I see it, is another move along the line to have central control in Canberra. I say to the people of this country - large as it is - and especially those in my own State some 2,500 miles away, that when the Government gets complete control in Canberra, when there is no recognition of the States and no opportunity within a State Parliament to look after people's needs, and especially when local government councils are forming regions, pity help the State of Western Australia and in fact all the States. 
The Government has criticised BjelkePetersen, the Premier of Queensland, for what he has been saying and doing. BjelkePetersen can no doubt see the position very plainly. In fact the Government has had criticism from some of its own Labor Premiers, including none other than Tonkin. They have criticised the Government bitterly for what it is doing in trying to centralise power in Canberra. It is against the grain of the people of Australia to accept that situation. We have a good system of government, a 3-tier system of government, that has operated in this country for a number of years. I firmly believe that the people want to retain that system. They might improve it from time to time. For instance, they could throw this Government out and put another in; that would improve things considerably. But they do not want central control. They do not like the word 'control' to start with. Australia is a free enterprise country. The people are very proud of it. The standard of living in this country has been built up on that system, and we do not want to clutter the whole thing up now with a new system of control because we know where that leads to. I ask the Government when putting forward the arguments it does in relation to the price of various items to compare overseas prices with those which existed when the last government went out of office on 2 December. 
I believe that this measure is a political tactic. It is not an economic measure. It is pure politics. A week or two ago the Prime Minister would not have a bar of this, as I understand it. Then he came into this House yesterday and made a certain statement in relation to Hawke and what he was alleged to have said. The Prime Minister said that Hawke would co-operate in relation to the wage and salary claims that might be put forward by the various unions.  Mr Hawke  has denied this and he has denied it very strongly. He has said in effect that if the Government does certain things in relation to prices and brings other economic measures to bear on the economic scene in Australia perhaps in a year or two the unions will review the situation as to their claims. In effect they are his words. Perhaps in a year or two they will review the situation. This measure, as I see it from the Australian public's point of view, will not work. 
There is a parliamentary procedure involved in this amendment and in the Bills which concerns me considerably. This Parliament - and this is what the amendment is all about - has certain responsibilities and so has the Government, in bringing matters relating to taxes before the Parliament. This is in fact a tax matter - a revenue matter. The Bills we are discussing, the clause we are discussing intimately, and the second reading speech introducing these Bills refer to only one point in relation to this money, and that is meat inspection. Nowhere in the Bill and nowhere in the second reading speech are any other words used to show for what purpose the money collected from these Bills and sanctioned by this Parliament - if it is sanctioned - will be spent. This matter is laid down very clearly in our Constitution. I admit that I am moving away from the amendment but it is important to realise that under the Constitution there is a responsibility on the Government, when it brings in Bills for the collection of particular moneys, to set out precisely in those Bills what the money is for. 
Nowhere in these Bills is brucellosis or tuberculosis mentioned. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has been talking about them. 
As I see it, these Bills should be withdrawn and redrafted so that they can be brought back into this chamber in a constitutional manner. The Minister can go and look at his copy of the Constitution if he likes. These Bills should be withdrawn, redrafted and brought back as separate issues. I am quite adamant on that point. It is only right and proper that, when we are dealing with public money drawn from the taxpayers of this country, the Bills should be brought in in the correct form setting out precisely for what purpose the money is being collected. Nowhere in these Bills, in the second reading speech or in debate have the 2 matters of brucellosis and tuberculosis for which, apparently, some of this money will be used, been mentioned. If these Bills are proceeded with in their present form and if they become Acts of Parliament, the people who have to put them into operation, such as the exporters and those involved with the various works, will read them as they are today - these are the documents they will receive - and will find no reference to the 2 points I have made. Therefore, I submit to the Minister and to the Government that the Bills should be withdrawn and presented again when they have been correctly framed. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I return to the clause before the Committee. This clause highlights the position which I put to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  previously in relation to my doubts about the legislation. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has just admitted that apparently members of his Government have also considered the clause in this light. The amendment which has been moved safeguards the position to some extent The Minister has indicated that he is not prepared to withdraw the legislation and to redraft it as I suggested. Therefore I think that it is obligatory for the Minister to accept the amendment which the Opposition has moved. 
I will not pursue the other matter. I still have most strong doubts about the legislation. I ask the Government and the Minister to accept the amendments which are being put forward by the Opposition for the purpose of safeguarding the position. I indicate again to the Minister that those who will be carrying out the provisions of this legislation - I refer to those who will be responsible for collecting the levies, etc. - will not know the true position when they pick up this Bill, as they will need to do, and study it to determine what the collections are as mentioned in the second reading speech. However, if this amendment is agreed to and is inserted in the legislation a safeguard will be provided not only for the people who will pay the levy and those who will collect the levy but also for the Government which is responsible for the moneys that will be so collected. Therefore I ask the Minister and the Government to adopt our amendments. 
The measure before the House is one that will increase costs to a large number of people and industries throughout Australia. In 1965 the former Government introduced a measure into this House which at that time made fuel no dearer than 4d a gallon in the then currency - now 3.3c - in country areas than it was in the capital cities in the respective States. From memory, the price in the Northern Territory was based on Sydney prices. That scheme was of tremendous assistance to many people and many industries throughout Australia. This legislation proposes a reduction in that differential. The margin now will be no more than 5c a gallon. That will apply not only to petrol but also to many other fuels such as aviation fuel and distillate. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who is just leaving the chamber, spoke for 6 or 7 minutes and tried to justify his existence as the honourable member for Riverina. 
That is right. This is one of the many performances of the honourable member for Riverina since the Labor Government has been in charge of Australian politics in this House. When the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office the honourable member for Riverina accused the Government of doing various things such as putting up charges and costs. This particular measure will raise the price of petrol by about 7c a gallon in the areas about which I am speaking. It is beyond belief for any man to try to justify that increase in the present circumstances. We will see more such performances as the pressure grows. This measure is part of a Budget which is increasing costs in many areas. 
I say to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table that the measure he adopted today in relation to people in country areas is very much accepted and appreciated. This is a big country and people are inclined to forget that fact. The vast area of Australia is much bigger, in relation to population, than most people in other parts of the world can imagine. Because of the vast distances involved people who go out into those areas and produce the wealth of the nation face excessive costs. A lot of the wealth of the nation comes from those areas. If everyone were to move to the cities the nation would lose its wealth. Everybody cannot live in the cities. As I mentioned yesterday people such as miners, farmers and their associates have to go to the country and produce the wherewithal. The measure brought down in 1965 assisted those people to a large extent. 
It has been mentioned that fuel has been dumped by a particular company around Melbourne and sold at a much cheaper price than it can be obtained in some areas of Australia. I know that it has been going on for some time. A tanker can be brought into Melbourne to dump fuel in and around the city, but that is not the total scene. If that was all that was done we would have no fuel supplies throughout Australia. The cost of delivery of fuel throughout Australia is quite a large exercise. We need machinery to make fuel available to people wherever they are operating in Australia. To achieve this a vast organisation is necessary. We need an organisation that is prepared to go into the country areas and make fuel available when it is required so that people do not have to sit and wait for it. The Bill introduced in 1965 establishing the 3.3c differential helped the situation and enabled fuel to be taken to those remote areas of Australia and to be stored in depots where it was available. There is always a cost involved not only in transporting fuel to country areas but also in storing it, making it available for the requirements of various industries operating in those areas. That applies not only to industries but also to the people and involves all manner of supplies. It is no good the honourable member for Riverina screeching about a single company that brings a tanker into Melbourne, dumps fuel in the city area and forgets about the rest of Australia. Members on this side of the House have talked about this sort of thing while debating a number of Bills. 
More people have to be considered than those who live in the cities and around the coast of this country. People live all over Australia and consideration must be given to their needs. I noticed in the Press quite recently that rail freights in my own State are rising substantially. It all adds to costs as does the measure which we are debating this afternoon. It has been said also that the Act gave assistance only to the people in the country areas. 
This is where the whole thing gets into a mess due to the muddled thinking of various people. 
A lot has been said in the Press, in this House and by myself about the price of meat. No doubt more will be said. Previous governments have spent millions and millions of dollars on such things as beef roads so that trains, as we call them, can operate and carry beef to various abattoirs in the northern part of Australia. That system works not only in the north of Australia but practically all over Australia. Obviously if the cost of fuel is increased, no matter what type of fuel it is, the cost of transporting beef from stations or farms to the abattoir and beyond must rise. That cannot be avoided. It is obvious that if the cost of fuel is increased the cost of that particular commodity will also rise. As I said, the previous Government spent many millions of dollars in improving the road system so that the road trains could operate effectively. It was done for a number of reasons. Previously bullocks could not be moved from many areas until they were a certain age. Now the bullocks can be moved at a much younger age and more beef can be produced. The moment that transport costs are increased the price of almost every item in Australia will rise. Freight is the biggest single component in the cost structure of any item. It comprises more than 30 per cent of the cost of any finished article which is in use in Australia "today. Any item such as petrol which we are debating here today that generates cost increases is a disadvantage not only to country people but also to people all over Australia. People in the cities of this country rely on country areas to produce their food requirements. 
People in cities are used to having a bottle of milk delivered to their doorstep every morning. The transport costs involved in having that bottle of milk delivered are quite extensive. As I understand the situation the milk supply for Canberra comes from vast distances. Obviously supplies will be transported by road. The transport of that particular commodity is quite a large item in the total cost. That situation applies not only to milk but also to every single item which housewives and the people of Australia use every day. The Government, when looking at this measure, should consider the total scene. It should not be thought of as something which involves just the country people. As the Coombs report has indicated, .he cost of fuel affects everybody. When I spoke in 1965 on a matter, such as this I referred to some of the areas in central Australia. I will not repeat what I said. It is recorded in Hansard. The Government should seriously consider any matters concerning transport. Transport is more important in Australia, due to its vast areas, than it is in most countries of the world. 
The Bill before the House is to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1972. This is the second time under this Government that this Act has been before the House. It was only last y.ar that the former Government introduced a lot of amendments to the principal Act and it was updated to that point of dme. This Government brought in amendments, I think in April, which were rejected by the Senate. Now the Government again seeks to amend the Act. However, the Bill is somewhat different from the one that was originally introduced. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has seen fit to delete some of the clauses in the original Bill which, I understand, were not acceptable to the Senate. 
As was mentioned to some extent earlier today, I think it is important to look at the situation in Australia in relation to this matter of conciliation and arbitration from the constitutional point of view. On many occasions I think many Australians misunderstand the powers which this Government or this Parliament has in relation to this matter. It is dealt with in section 51 of our Constitution which states that the Parliament shall have power with respect to 
Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. 
That is all our Constitution says, in those few words. But in fact they are quite significant. As I understand it this Parliament  has  jurisdiction over approximately 40 per cent of the work force of Australia in regard to industrial matters. I think 47 per cent of Australians work under the jurisdiction of State awards and 13 per cent do not belong to any union at all. That is about the situation. 
Therefore, the Act is extremely complicated perhaps for that reason, namely, that there are very limited powers within the Constitution on which the Act can be drawn. But having said that I suggest that the system of conciliation and arbitration in Australia since early days has been of tremendous benefit to the work force, to the employers and to the people generally. It must be a system of co-operation between all those concerned - in the main, of course, employees and employers. That is what the Act is really all about. When agreement cannot be reached between the 2 parties the provisions of the Act have to be brought into operation and an endeavour made to reach an agreement. However, before the present Government came into power on 2 December 1972 the Minister for Labour had said on many occasions that when his Party came into power it would solve all the problems within this area because he had all the answers. It is interesting to see what has transpired since then. I draw the attention of the House to a Press cutting from the 'Australian* of 5 December 1972, 3 days after the present Government was voted into power. It is quite a large article and it is headed: 'Cameron's task: cut the strikes'. Remarks in the article are attributed to the present Minister for Labour. It states: 
Clyde Cameron, the likely Minister for Labour- 
Which is quite correct -  believes soft words rather than a big stick will bring industrial peace to Australia.. 
Big sticks don't work. It's as simple as that.' 
The words in that Press item are attributed to the Minister. I hope they are correct. No doubt he would have said so if they were not. I think the article represents his approach to the matter. Fair enough.  I  agree with that. But I think his message from Paris or wherever he was on the other side of the world which has been referred to previously in this House was hardly in that form. But the Minister, before his Party came into power, said that a Labor Government would have a better opportunity to deal with industrial unrest because it understood the work force better than those who sat on the other side of the parliamentary chamber. This was said not only in Australia but also in other parts of the world. 
As was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  earlier today, statistics do not always reveal the exact position, although they may be accurately compiled. I think it is interesting to look at the situation relating to what has happened between 1 January 1973 and the end of June 1973. According to a report by the Bureau of Census and Statistics in Canberra, in the corresponding period in 1972 the working days lost due to industrial disputes were 859,000 and the estimated loss of wages was $13,256,000. In that period in 1973, 1,422,000 working days were lost due to industrial disputes and the estimated loss in wages for that period was $23,712,000. This is quite a difference. I am wondering where the Minister has been in all that time iri solving these problems. I do not want to be unkind to the man but he was the chap who said that he would be in a better position to solve these problems. I certainly hope that he is more successful in the future. 
It is also interesting to note that his own State is no exception in regard to industrial disputes. The same document shows that the working days lost in South Australia from January to June 1972  -  in the Minister's own State - were 23,200. In the corresponding period in 1973 the figure was 49,100. That is quite a significant difference. So he is not very influential in his own State. In my own State of Western Australia, I note, there has been a considerable drop in the number of man hours lost in the sam : period. The losses affect not only the individuals, of course; they also are a quite significant loss to the nation. It is hoped that the Minister can apply his alleged understanding of the work force in Australia to see that strikes and the level of strikes is lowered. I certainly hope that he will because it is not in the best interests of anybody, much less the family man, to be out on strike. 
As I said, this is the second attempt by this Government to amend the principal Act. I also notice that a series of amendments are also to be submitted by the Minister, even though the introduction of this Bill was only a week or two ago. The previous Bill contained penalties, of course, against employers and took out the penalties in relation to employees. That is one of the points on which the Minister has altered this Bill. Amalgamations and how they should be brought about also have been the subject of some discussion in more recent times. I can only agree with the Minister that there are too many unions in Australia. In other countries there are far fewer unions proportionately than there are in Australia. Haying agreed with that proposition I suggest that the machinery which will resolve that situation and bring more of those unions together for the benefit of everybody concerned is important. It must be of advantage not only to employees but also to employers and the nation as a whole because so many demarcation disputes arise today. I think ona or two are on at pesent. 
I do not claim to know all the ins and outs but it is possible that if some unions were amalgamated into a more united force many disputes would not occur. But the situation is not easy to overcome. Despite what might be said by honourable members opposite I have had a little experience in this area. Today the world is changing very rapidly. Handling and manufacturing techniques are altering and obviously difficulties will arise within the unions operating in those areas. Demarcation disputes will occur. I suggest to the Minister that it is reasonable that he, union representatives and others concerned endeavour to assess the situation before the changes take place. Perhaps they are doing so. I do not know, but if they are moving they are not solving the problem at present. The problems should be solved before disputes arise. Technical changes will continue, as we all know. If the opportunity is not taken to hold discussions between management and employees before the changes take place, no doubt demarcation disputes will continue for a long time. They arc really the most difficult disputes to solve because of the internal relationships between the unions. No doubt the Minister has had a lot of experience in that field. 
In a changing world employees become concerned about their job security, which is very important to them. Retraining programs have been conducted in other parts of the world and I would imagine that much work has been done in the areas to which I have been referring. Probably many employees are affected in Australia by altered techniques, especially in the transport field. Employees see changes approaching which there is no chance in life of stopping. It is a fact of life. If the people concerned can act first in an industry many strikes and a lot of hardship and feelings of insecurity will be avoided. 
Public interest is primarily concerned in the field of conciliation and arbitration. Many people other than the employees and employers directly involved become affected in disputes. The public are caught up. It has happened in government circles and the Post Office is a classic example of public suffering caused by strikes. That is not the only area and the public interest is always extremely important. The alternative to conciliation and arbitration is collective bargaining, as I have mentioned before. I do not really k now the views of the Minister on collective bargaining and perhaps he will deal more specifically with its features as against conciliation and arbitration in this debate. The arbitration system has served the people of this country well. The machinery provides an opportunity for employers and employees to reach agreement. Collective bargaining, as I have read of it and have seen it operate, would not be in the best interests of Australia. I ask the Minister to state his exact position, not in a roundabout way. 
That is so. I am not suggesting that the arbitration system should not be changed from time to time but if it is lost in favour of collective bargaining employees and the people of Australia generally will be a lot worse off. I have in mind particularly the small unions. The Labor Government has been in office for about 10 months. I ask the Minister to clarify the stand of the Government on this issue. 1 think that is a reasonable request. This debate provides an excellent opportunity for the Minister to state precisely where he stands and I believe that the country as a whole will appreciate that type of statement. I believe that in some of the amendments introduced in April the Minister may have been endeavouring to bring in some of the features of collective bargaining through the back door. That is not good enough. It is up to the Minister to explain exactly where the Government stands as almost every citizen of this country is involved. Millions of workers use the arbitration system and I think the Minister owes it to them and to. employers to make a clear statement of the Government's policy in respect of these matters. 
There are a number of Bills before the House at the moment but, summed up, their effect is to increase costs to the community throughout Australia. Although the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  may have said that the Government had a mandate not to increase personal taxation the Government increased taxes in general, not from the right-hand pocket of the taxpayer but from his left-hand pocket. The measures now before the House increase taxation payable by people now residing in this country. The honourable member for Blaxland mentioned also that the Government proposes to spend a considerable amount of money on education. But of course what he failed to mention was that the Government had taken from the States certain responsibilities in relation to some areas of education, that it had deducted from payments to the States the money which would have been involved and that it had added this amount to its own Budget. The honourable member mentioned also that the Government was pouring additional money into the field of housing. He is now leaving the chamber. Apparently he docs not want to listen. 
The Government has done those things, but what is the net result of its actions? The Government has imposed extra taxes, as has been mentioned today, in relation to housing. The result of this is that there is a drastic shortage of builders in this country and there is a drastic shortage of bricks and so forth with which to build houses. In addition, the Government has turned around and increased costs to people seeking private dwellings through very savage increases in the rates of interest. On a $10,000 loan repayable over 30 years the increase in the rate of interest will amount to something like $2,500 - on one home. That increase is quite apart from the effects of the increased costs across the board. That action is what this Government terms as good economics. In my book it is bad economics to bring home owners in this country into the position in which we see them today. 
The third point made by the honourable member for Blaxland related to the price of fuel which is the subject of this debate. He referred to the fact that through one source or another fuel is cheaper in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. I cannot help mentioning again that many members on the other side of the House seem to think that this country starts and finishes in Sydney or Melbourne. As I said in this House a couple of weeks ago, a tanker can be brought into Melbourne or Sydney and distribute fuel in most centres somewhat more cheaply than would be the case if the Government accepted the responsibility of distributing the fuel requirements of users throughout the entire continent. That is the vast difference. What this nation wants is fuel depots right throughout the country to supply fuel when it is required. That is an entirely different exercise from just dumping fuel in the 2 large cities in this country, Sydney and Melbourne. It seems impossible for those honourable members on the other side of the House to get that message. There are industries throughout this country which make the wealth of this nation. In fact the Government is at the moment living on our current account which was put together by the previous Government from our production. As you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the previous Government had begun to pay our way in the current account in the middle of 1972. It is that money which is now carrying this Government through and it is through those services of which I have been speaking that the nation has been enabled to achieve that position. The money does not come from Sydney and Melbourne; it comes from throughout the nation. 
Of the Bills now before the House I will speak mainly to those relating to fuel. These fuel Bills are important to this nation. They increase the cost of diesel and other types of fuel by 5c a gallon. This is a tremendous increase in costs as it affects industry and private users throughout the country. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech on 21 August mentioned that in a full year the increased fuel charges would give an amount of SI 57m revenue to the Government. That is quite a lot of money. To suggest that an increase in the price of fuel which will achieve that amount of money is not inflationary - in other words, it is not going to put up costs - is quite ridiculous. Of course it will put up costs. Road transport in this country is a very important industry. Other means of transport are limited. The areas in which railways operate for the transport of goods and the areas in which goods are carted even by air are limited. Although those industries will also be affected by these increased fuel charges, it is the road transport industry which in the main will be affected. The road transport industry is of considerable magnitude in this country. 
This industry will also be affected by another measure which we expect the Government to introduce very shortly. I refer to the Bill to amend the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act which to some extent is coupled with these money Bills. 
Spread over the last 5 years I think the previous Government made available to the various States a sum of SI, 252m. One would expect that with the substantial increases in fuel taxes and the increases in the amount of fuel being used throughout this country, the Government would have available to it substantial additional money for distribution to the various States for the purpose of building roads. The Commonwealth contribution to road construction throughout the nation amounts to about one-third only of the total expenditure. It will be interesting when that Bill comes before the House to see what amount of money is in fact made available to the States from this additional revenue because it was said on numerous occasions in this House when members of the present Government were in opposition that the full amount of revenue collected from these areas should in fact be made available for road construction purposes. I doubt very much whether that will be done because one speech made in this House this afternoon from the Government benches indicated that the reason for these taxes was for other things such as education, health, home building, etc. So, it has been indicated that the money raised from these taxes will be channelled into another area and not into that area which was suggested by the Government when it was in opposition. No doubt, that Bill will come before the House; I hope it will be in the near future. However, I think it is time that the Government spelled out its policy in relation to these matters because a lot of local authorities throughout Australia are anxious to know precisely what is the Government's policy in relation to the renewed Commonwealth roads legislation. These authorities must budget each year, just as this Government must budget each year for its works program. 
An important angle relating to fuel generally and to the discussion now taking place is the supply of fuel in this nation. Previously, we had incentive programs to attract to this country people, industries and businesses with their know-how and capital in an endeavour to find fuel. But in recent times - in 1973 - the enthusiasm to drill for oil in this country seems to have waned. It is noticeable that on 10 October 1972, 18 wells were being drilled, 7 off-shore and 1 1 on-shore. 
I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Paterson. On 9 October 1973 - that is, today - we have only 12 wells being drilled, 6 off-shore and 6 onshore. In other words, we are going downhill fast when it comes to finding fuel in this country. 
We also hear of meetings taking place in the world relating to fuel costs. Only this week there was a meeting in the Middle East, where about 80 per cent of the total oil reserves are held. I have no doubt that those countries will be seeking a substantial increase in the cost of fuels. If we in Australia do not increase our search for fuels and bring to the surface sufficient for our own needs, we will be subject to those negotiations and will be paying substantially more for fuel than otherwise would be the case. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is sitting at the table interjected earlier to ask in what area the Government should cut back its expenditure if it were not to increase taxes under the measure that is now before us. Of course, honourable members opposite always mention social services, health and education programs. Nobody is suggesting that we should cut back those programs. However, there are areas which the Government should have left alone. For instance, the national pipeline has been mentioned. Private industry was willing and able to carry out this project and, in fact, has started the program of installing the necessary pipes for the distribution of natural gas. But the Government took over. 
It is inflationary because the Government apparently is determined to take over from private enterprise and to tax the people or get the money from somewhere - we are not quite sure where all the money is going to come from; I wish the Government would tell us - and then spend it. I have never yet found government expenditure of this nation or of any other nation that is as economic as expenditure by private enterprise. This Government certainly would not be as economical as private enterprise. Can it be suggested that this Government could take over all the private enterprise in this country and be as efficient as private enterprise? It follows that if the Government starts taking over one area of private enterprise, it is going to take over the lot. Australia has some of the most efficient areas of private enterprise in the world. God help the day when this socialist Government takes over from those private enterprise organisations. I would challenge the Minister for Overseas Trade on this point. If he wants to cut back expenditure, he should start with government expenditure. Do not expect private enterprise, as the Government is doing with its monetary measures, its interest rates and so forth, to come to the party and try to cut back when the Government itself is not making any effort whatsoever to cut back on its program of expansion in endeavouring to take over private enterprise. 
There are many examples I could give relating to the taxes we are now discussing, for that is what they are; they will place further burdens on the individuals and industries throughout this country. I should like to cite figures relating to a couple of these increases. The cost in a full year of the increase in duty on motor spirit alone will be SI 34.6m and the increase in duty on diesel fuel in a full year will raise SI 2.9m. They are substantial increases in anybody's language. It is not just upon the country people who use this fuel that the increased costs will fall, as one might think. Honourable members opposite seem to forget that we have to transport all the necessary foodstuffs to the millions of people who live in the cities of this country. A lot of this food must come many hundreds of miles and, obviously, when transport costs are increased, the cost to the consumer is increased by the time the food reaches its destination. As 1 have said before, transport costs are the biggest single factor in our cost structure and such costs are coupled with the increased fuel taxes we are discussing. Of course, the Government has a responsibility to carry out its mandate. Whether the people will be happy with the way that that mandate is carried out probably is another matter altogether. I cannot agree that an increase in fuel costs of 5 cents a gallon, plus additional increases of up to 1.7 cents a gallon for country areas over and above the amount of 3.3 cents a gallon which was contained in previous legislation, making a total increase in many country areas of nearly 7 cents a gallon, is justified. It is far too high a price for anybody to have to pay in increased costs in one year. 
We notice these increased costs every day. Costs are moving up in every area. One has only to ask the housewife, who is the best economist in the country, to see the truth of this. The housewife has to make her dollars stretch each week to purchase the requirements of the family and the home and when housewives find that these costs are continually moving up, every day and every week, as they have been doing in more recent times, they will start to think about the policies which the Government is implementing. There has also been a rapid across the board increase in interest rates. I thought that the Government stood for a policy of low interest rates. However, the very reverse is the situation. Interest rates are the highest we have seen. Again, this increases the prices of goods right across the country. These are the things that the housewife is now finding out in her daily economics. 
I feel that the Government could and should have cut its expenditure in this Budget. An increase in Government expenditure of 18.9 per cent is far too high in the inflationary situation in which we find ourselves today. In my book, these measures only tend to increase that inflationary situation and do not in any way assist the economy of this country. 
I understood that we were discussing the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! The Minister for Services and Property was speaking on the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State, whom he represents in this House, and accordingly his time was unlimited. 
I am not talking about the time,  Sir. I  was suggesting that we were discussing, firstly, the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and, secondly, the estimates of the Department of the Special Minister of State. May I suggest,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  with respect, that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  got up to answer a previous  speaker  and he touched on practically every department, including of course his own, the Department of Education and a few more, other than the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Was he trying to defend something he could not defend? What he was trying to do we will never know but it was a typical speech by the Leader of the House. He seems to enjoy himself but he does not really go anywhere. 
I shall endeavour to come back to the question before the Committee, and that is the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. It has been said on numerous occasions and repeated during debates today by members on the Government side that the Opposition should suggest ways and means of cutting down Government expenditure. This is an excellent opportunity perhaps to have a look at some of the estimates in relation to the portfolios we are discussing this evening. It is rather a pity that the Minister spent so much time wandering around the various portfolios other than the ones we are discussing, because I think it would be more appropriate if he would answer a few questions that may be raised during these discussions. For instance, in division 430 of the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, which deals with administration, the total expenditure in the previous financial year was $5,121,955. This year the total appropriation is $9,389,300. 
It is not quite doubled. Perhaps the Minister at the table who is responsible for answering on behalf of the Prime Minister tonight would indicate the reason for the difference. There is limited information within the various documents in the Budget papers, but the information available is not good enough, as I see it, to explain the variation in those sums of money. I think it is in these sorts of areas that the Ministers at the table can spend their time telling us what it is all about. In division 448, which deals with the Public Service Board, expenditure in the previous year was $8,135,337. This year the appropriation is $9,159,000. About $lm more is to be spent on administration and other services within the Public Service Board. That is quite a figure. In division 442, which deals with the Australian Council lor the Arts, expenditure in the previous year was $7,185,081 and the appropriation this year is $15,019,900. That division covers quite a field. There is limited information in rela tion to that figure in the Budget documents. Again it is not sufficient to describe what the increase is all about. It is quite a considerable increase. The appropriation this year is a little more than double what it was the previous year. Perhaps the Minister for Services and Property would like to describe precisely where that money is going. 
Let us look at the Tariff Board. I think the Tariff Board has been disbanded and something else is to take its place. We are not too sure what the operation of the new body will be. In division 449, which refers to the Tariff Board, expenditure in 1972-73 was $2,606,004 and this year the Government has increased the appropriation to $3,264,700. That is quite a lift in the appropriation for the administration of the Tariff Board. Perhaps the Minister could indicate the reasons for it. I have already mentioned the Australian Council of the Arts. I notice that on page 87 of the Bill under the heading 'Other Services' there appears as item 06 the acquisition of works for and the conservation of the national collection. I do not know what is meant by 'the national collection'. One of my colleagues was talking about retaining some of the older structures in Australia today. Perhaps the Minister might explain what this item is all about. It is noticed that in 1972-73 expenditure on this item was $1,077,646 but in 1973-74 the appropriation is $4m. So here is another considerable expansion of expenditure that the Minister might also explain. How will that money be spent? Where is it going and by whom is it to be spent? 
I would like for a moment in my limited time to turn to page 111 and the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister for State. Here we find that the total administrative expenses last financial year were $1,661,291. This financial year that figure has increased to $3,207,850. Here again limited information is available. Can the Minister explain precisely where these millions will be spent? I am sure that the Committee and members of the public would like to know on what this money is to be spent. Item 544 relates to the Commonwealth Archives Office. During the financial year 1972-73 this Department expended $1,335,581 but for the financial year 1973-74 the estimated expenditure is $2,038,400. This also is a considerable increase and perhaps the Minister might explain the situation. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to refer particularly te the Grants Commission. 
I think it was the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who gave his interpretation of precisely how he thought the Grants Commission would operate in future. This is probably the first explanation that has been given by a Government supporter. I am anxious to know how the Grants Commission will operate. I am sure that local authorities throughout Australia are also interested in this matter. Perhaps the Minister later tonight will have the opportunity to tell us precisely how it will operate. Item 546 relates to the Grants Commission. Last financial year $124,732 was expended by the Grants Commission. This was quite a modest sum but in the current Budget $593,250 is provided for this financial year. Only a few weeks ago in reply to a question the appropriate Minister suggested that it would be some 3 months before any guidelines of any sort would be available to indicate what is to happen with the Grants Commission. If this is the case it will be Christmas time or later before the Government's proposals for the Grants Commission get off the ground and therefore they will be in operation for only a few months before the end of the financial year. However the people of Australia and local authorities want to know how the Grants Commission is to function. We as a Parliament have not been told, nor have the people, and if the Minister can explain how this money will be spent people will be a little better informed. 
Item 549 concerns the National Library of Australia which performs a most important function, but here again whereas last financial year $5,820,000 was made available by the previous Government this year that amount has been increased to the round figure of $7m. This is a substantial increase and a little later during this Committee debate I should like the Leader of the House, who represents the Special Minister of State, to explain precisely how this money will be expended. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence and refer to the establishment of the Western Australian naval support facility HMAS Stirling at Cockburn Sound and the Minister's statement on 22 August that certain works will be deferred for later decisions. Can the Minister now state what those decisions are? Does the Government intend to proceed with the project? If so, when? Or has the Government torpedoed the project port side? 
I was hoping to speak to this Bill earlier in the day in the general debate but having been prevented from doing that I should like to say at least one or two words in relation to this particular clause of the Bill which we are discussing at the moment. I listened with some note to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He seems to be concerned that the Australian Country Party did certain things during its term of office, which was over 20 years. I remind him that those things could not have been too bad because of the very fact that the situation in our current account in Australia today is better than it has ever been in the history of this country. The decisions taken by the previous Government on a broad plane leads us to that conclusion. But in relation to the point of taking decisions, I would regret the day we change our system of government which has been operating for many years - a system of government where the people of Australia elect representatives to this Parliament and from the Parliament is taken the government of the day which is responsible for the various departments to administer under the respective Ministers the general procedures of government from year to year. Setting up bodies such as this obviously takes away from that system the responsibility of making decisions in relation to these matters. 
I should like to say a few words about one particular industry which is well known to a number of honourable members in this Parliament and in relation to which some amount of discussion took place over the last few years, lt is the largest industry in Australia, and that is the wool industry. This clause refers to how the Commission will go about its business. The Commission is being set up to take evidence, as I understand the Bill, in relation to any industry which is under its notice at a certain time. The question is: From where does it take its evidence? I think that this is fairly clear in some respects in the Bill. For instance in clause 22 (c) it is stated that the Commission will recognise the interest of consumers and consuming industries likely to be affected by measures proposed by the Commission. We must take into consideration at all times the consumers of Australia especially. But I am dealing now with an industry 95 per cent of the product of which is exported. So we are considering consumers overseas, but not to any great extent within Australia. The question I ask of the Government and of the Minister is: From where would it take the evidence? 
If this Commission operated in the wool industry - no doubt it will; the Government is not moving in . that area at the moment, although it stated that it would - from where would it take its evidence? In relation to clause 22 (c), would it take its evidence from the overseas textile industry? Representatives from those industries were here some 2 years ago when wool was 30c per lb. They indicated around this place and to Australia in general that the price of wool should not go beyond that point. They said that wool could not stand any further increase in price and that the wool industry was in fact finished. This is what was said by the big textile groups. If the Commission took its evidence from that quarter the evidence would be grossly wrong. If the Commission took its evidence from the opposing factors, the other textile industries, that also would be wrong. The Government of the day has been talking about the multi millions of the overseas interests. 
As my friend the honourable member for Calare says, ad nauseam. That evidence would be wrong. Those groups were saying throughout the world that wool was finished. If the evidence were taken from the economists and the various universities around Australia that also would be wrong. 
MrDuthie - Whose evidence would have been right? 
That is the point I will come to in a moment. If the evidence were taken from the Press - this point can be brought to the surface - and from the comments made by those who write to the Press about these things, that evidence also would have been wrong. Even the 'Financial Review', which is supposed to know about the economics of this country, stated on one occasion that it was time the wool growers of this country woke up to the fact that the wool industry was finished. That is what honourable members would find if they searched through some of the leading articles in that journal. That evidence would have been wrong. The evidence that was accepted came from the members of this Parliament who were elected by the Australian people. They were the people who weighed up the situation and fought to have money made available to back that industry. The industry, was not given handouts, in the main, as was suggested by the Press but interest bearing money was made available by the Government and by the banks, and it was all paid back by the industry. Honourable members who were here at that time can remember the pressures that were brought to bear in relation to that matter. However I have no doubt whatsoever that if the evidence I mentioned had been presented in open court, as suggested, and a recommendation made on the basis of it a negative report would have been presented to us. 
As we are looking to the future of this industry, I contend that if its case is submitted to an organisation such as is proposed in this Bill there can be nothing but a damaging effect upon it. On the one hand, if the Commission were to say that the industry was not in need of protection, that would be the end of the legislation we have at the moment and it would be the end of any future legislation. On the other hand if the Commission recommended that the industry be backed to the extent of $100m in order to save it - that was about the figure involved previously - to buy in wool when pressure was applied by the overseas people I mentioned previously - that would also be doing the greatest disservice that could be done to the industry, because if the Labor Party knows all about the big pressure groups from overseas it should realise that a decision having been made that a certain amount of money be used to back the industry the over seas interests could adopt the tactic - they do this, of course - of taking that $1 00m out by reducing bids on the floor, reducing bids for the offerings made until such time as that $100m was spent. Then, of course, they would have an open market. 
This is the situation at which I beg the Government to look, because if it adopts methods of that kind it will ruin an industry. The only way in which a successful situation can be established in relation to the wool industry is for the government of the day to negotiate with the industry and the Australian Wool Corporation, as we know it at the moment, to see that those things which happened a few years ago do not happen again. Until decisions in relation to the wool industry can be made from within the Government and not from outside it, until these decisions are based on the evidence which is available to those who know what is going on and who wish to look at the evidence, until the sort of operation that we are talking about tonight under this clause of the Bill is put into effect, and until the evidence and the recommendations that we have put forward tonight are taken into consideration, as I would expect them to be, it will mean the end of any assistance to the wool industry. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Bills before the House are very important to the States. We know that, over the years, the States have always been short of funds. This is nothing new. Lots of people are. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has made certain suggestions in relation to the types of funds that should be used. If I understood him correctly, he said that more loan moneys and less grant moneys should be used. I cannot go all the way with him in that proposition. One of the major problems in financing has been that the States and local government authorities have had great difficulty in servicing loans. Had the honourable member for Mackellar made his suggestion in 1927  -  probably he was not here at that time - and had a more businesslike management of loan moneys commenced at that time, the States would not be faced with the problems which they have today. 
All the loan moneys borrowed over the years by the Commonwealth have been made available to the States. The Commonwealth for its part has used the revenue about which the honourable member for Mackellar has spoken for works within its works system. Also, as he said, some of the grants from taxation revenue have been made available to the States for the purpose of making up loan deficiencies. The main point is that over the years that this loan program has been in progress the States have run themselves into tremendous troubles. One of the principal problems is that, in the early years of the operation of this scheme, the States amortised each loan over the total period in which the loan was repayable to the Commonwealth, that is, 53 years. In the first few years of the loan program, the transport system, for instance, which the honourable member for Mackellar mentioned was a very cheap system indeed. But as the loan program progressed, with the States adopting this amortisation program, costs got out of hand. This is the basis of the problem today. These costs are completely out of hand. 
This was the reason why the previous Government in 1970, 1 think it was, agreed to pick up $ 1,000m over a 5-year period - $200m a year - and to service loans on behalf of the States to get them out of the dilemma they were in. The major problem within the financing system of the States is that the revenue that they are collecting through various State taxation charges and from the Commonwealth was going largely to repay earlier loans from the Commonwealth. The move commenced by the previous Government to pick up $ 1,000m of loan repayments over a 5-year period undoubtedly has helped the States tremendously. In his second reading speech on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1973, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  states that arrangements have been settled to provide:  . . a portion of the State Government Loan Council programs in the form of interest free grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. The grants are designed to help the States finance capital works from which debt charges are not normally recovered, such as schools, police buildings and the like. 
This is another step towards alleviating the problems that the States have been experiencing over the years. This action should have been taken many years ago. I believe that loan moneys can be used in relation to those enterprises which return something to the States. Railways, for instance, if financed on a sound basis, should return a reasonable amount with which to repay and service loans. This is the major problem. Had the honourable member for Mackellar put up his proposition many years ago, it would have been OK then. But, at this stage, I think that it is necessary to continue with this program of assisting the States to service their loans. They must be assisted to meet the backlog in the servicing of those loans. The need to revise policies for the future is mentioned in the Treasurer's second reading speech. 
The other point that I wish to make in relation to local government authorities throughout Australia is that the position of these authorities is even worse. Local governments do not have the opportunity to borrow through the Loan Council in the same way as the States do. State Treasuries have the opportunity to borrow cheaper money, as I call it, through the Loan Council. This is money collected by the Commonwealth and made available by it to the States. Local authorities in Australia have only borrowing rights at the Loan Council level. They have the right to go outside and borrow in any form in which they can obtain the money that they need. The cost of borrowing that money is considerably dearer than the cost of borrowthe money made available through the Loan Council. This is one problem faced by local government. The further problem in relation to the dearer money that local government borrows is that of servicing the loans in question. 
The present Government has suggested that local authorities in Australia will have access to the Loan Council. Precisely what the Government means by that statement has never really been explained. I do not quite know what it means. Local authorities today have access to the Loan Council. They do not sit at the Loan Council table - that is true - but the moneys made available for borrowing by local authorities in fact are agreed to at the Loan Council. I say again that, if the only difference is to be that local authorities will have representation at the Loan Council but they will still be obliged to borrow dearer money, they will not be any further ahead. 
What is required is action to alleviate the problems faced by local authorities in servicing their loans. Some grants of that nature are what is required for the purpose either of helping them to service their loans or of helping them in some other field. The real trouble affecting local authorities arises from borrowing moneys at dear rates of interest. Local authorities have great difficulty in collecting sufficient revenue within their shire or local council areas generally to service their loans. If one looks at the statistics in relation to these matters, one will see that Australian local authorities on the whole are falling further behind than the States are in servicing loans. I do hope that, if local authorities are given a seat at the Loan Council, some method different from that operating at present will be found to provide them with money. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to that section of these Bills which relates to education. The agreement between the States and the Commonwealth, as I understand it, is that the Commonwealth will take over tertiary education responsibilities from the States. This is reflected in the legislation by a reduction in revenue grants to the States for 1973-74 totalling $11 1.8m, representing the estimated savings to the States for the half year from the time when the Commonwealth assumes this responsibility. The reduction for the financial year 1974-75 totals $229.7m and represents the estimated savings for that full year to the States from the Commonwealth's action. It is obvious that, following agreement apparently reached between the Commonwealth and the States, those sums are to be deducted from the total amount made available from the Commonwealth to the States, as a result of the Commonwealth assuming responsibility in this field. Therefore, those amounts will appear in the education program of the Commonwealth and no longer will appear in the State programs. 
A Bill has been passed through this House relating to regional authorities. It is the intention of the Government to make certain moneys available to regional authorities. I hope that in the near future the Government will explain precisely what will happen in that field. The Government's intentions in relation to forming these regions have not been stated clearly. We do not know what amounts of money will be made available and on what terms and conditions they will be made available. I believe that, having legislation before the Parliament, the Government should make its position clear. It is obvious that the local authorities throughout Australia have to draw up their own budgets in the same way as the States and the Commonwealth have to do. So they are anxious to know precisely what this Government has in mind. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has indicated that he wants to move on to the next order of the day. I agreed to take only about 10 minutes of the time of the House. I repeat that these Bills are important to the States. The States have their rightful place in the government of this country. I hope that they will be allowed to continue to function in that field in the future in the same way as they are functioning now. I hope also that we can improve their situation in relation to their financing by a more equitable arrangement regarding the servicing of various loans which have been made available. The previous Government made a move in that direction by picking up $ 1,000m. The present Government has indicated that it can see the problem. I certainly hope that it intends to continue in that direction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the GovernorGeneral recommending appropriation announced. 
The estimates before the Committee - those for the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Secondary Industry - cover a very wide field. I was rather intrigued by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who stated in the beginning that the primary industries were better off today than they had ever been before and then proceeded to launch on to the great problems in the dairy industry and the disaster that will be brought upon it if there is a rise in the price of butter. I did not realise that the honourable member for Wilmot had done his research in relation to the butter industry. But let us put the facts straight. He read out the facts from 
Hansard; but the facts are these: The Australian Labor Party 30-odd years ago introduced the butter subsidy. It was not asked for and it was not wanted by the dairy industry at that time. It was introduced because the C series index was about to rise because of a rise in the price of butter. 
The government of the day introduced a subsidy to the consumer, not to the producer. That is the record. Since its introduction the subsidy has been built into the dairy industry system. But the first thing the Labor Government does when it comes into power some 30 years later is to remove the subsidy and state that it was introduced for the benefit of the dairy industry. They are not the facts of life. The subsidy was introduced because of the C series index and now that it is to be taken away we are left with a position where possibly there will be a rise in the price of butter. But the dairy industry should not be Blamed for that. Let us consider the total history of it. That is one of the facts of life that have emerged. In the estimates that are before us today, the appropriation has been reduced by $10. 5m because of the phasing out of the subsidy. But the remaining amount has been provided for the consumer. It is no good saying that the dairy industry in Victoria has received most of the subsidy. That is not the fact of life at all. 
The honourable member still cannot get the message that the Australian consumers - they are the ones we have to look at - were the people who received the benefit, not the producers. If honourable members really looked at the facts of life they will see that that is the position. That is just one of the items with which I want to deal in considering these estimates. 
In these estimates debates I have listened to many honourable members saying that since the Australian Labor Party came into office the primary industries have never been better off. Farming is an industry which must be considered over a long term. It is not something about which something can be done in 5 minutes when things are wrong or when things are right. The things which the Labor Party is doing through this Budget will not have any immediate effects. It will be a long term process. The fact that the position is good today is because of certain aspects in relation to the world situation in the grain trade, the meat trade, in wool and right across the board. There have been over a number of years very adverse seasonal conditions in the northern hemisphere. Those who watch the situation hope that this is not a permanent pattern. However, there is great concern in the northern hemisphere because of what has been happening in the monsoon areas. That is the reason why we have a world grain shortage right across the board. There is tremendous worry about the weather pattern in the northern hemisphere. I will not talk about it. No doubt information on it can be gained from various documents. But this- has emerged in the last few years and it is mainly because of this that there is this shortage of grain throughout the world. 
Australia has also had in the past, of course, some adverse seasonal conditions and this is one of the reasons for our problems in the past. But recently at this time we began to enter an era - this is part of a cycle in Australia, and no doubt we will enjoy some better years - in which primary industries would be in a position, because of incentives such as the taxation arrangements which have been put on the statute book over the years, to move in and take advantage of the trends and assist the world by producing great quantities of food. I believe that because of our unique position in the world we have a responsibility to do this. For that reason we should at this time be encouraging primary industries in this country to take up this slack in relation to other parts of the world which are not so important in terms of production. 
Much has been said about the movement of people in this country. The movement of people in the field of farming industry, not only in this country but around the world, is very interesting. Let us have a look at one or two examples. In Britain, which produces only a small percentage of its total food requirement, 10 years ago 6 per cent of the work force were employed in the field of primary industry. Today in Britain only 3 per cent of the work force is employed in that industry. In that country hundreds of thousands of acres of the best arable land is being taken up by the construction of roads, schools, homes and factories and so on. When I was in Holland a number of years ago looking at the development in that small country an engineer who was showing me around turned to me and without any comment from me about primary industry whatsoever said: 'I hope Australia has plenty of foodstuffs because at the rate we are developing and taking up our agricultural country we will want to import a lot of food'. Let us look at the position in Canada, a country which is comparable to Australia. In Canada 10 years ago 11 per cent of the people were employed in primary industry. Today the proportion is down to 8 per cent. The same figures apply in Australia. Ten years ago 11 per cent of the people in this country were employed in primary industry but only 8 per cent are employed today. 
Broadly what is happening around the world is that there are countless millions of people moving from the various agricultural areas into the cities. This is happening not only in this country, it is happening all oyer the world. This imbalance is dangerous - I will use that word 'dangerous' - because there are far too few people producing food. Taking into consideration the serious situation in relation to the northern hemisphere and the weather pattern there which scientists are watching very closely, it is dangerous because there are not enough people in the country areas around the world producing the food requirements for the rapid increase in population and to cope with the movement of people into the cities. In other words, in food production the balance of consumers as against producers is something which this Government and every government in the world should be looking at. 
What worries me in these estimates is that at this stage of development - and I am not talking about just Australia; I am talking about the world as a whole - we have had introduced a budget which takes away incentives. This is a great problem in this country and I believe it will have serious repercussions in the future. If the world wants food - I have said this in this place before - the people of the world have to pay for it. But if the world wants people to go back into country areas, or if it wants the younger people and the not so young people to stay in country areas then we must have these incentives. These are the sorts of things that the previous Government over many years placed on the statute book. This has put us in a position where we could when seasons were good move in and buy new machinery and so forth to enable us to produce the goods. Then when the producers got into the other situation, that is the troughs - in this game there are the peaks and troughs - they would be able to go through the bad years because they had built themselves up with the good machinery and the other things required to produce the goods. The incentives have been taken away under this Budget and that is a dangerous situation. These people will not be able to replace their old machinery because tax has to be paid on the money invested in new machinery. 
There is a second string attached to this. Coupled with this drift of people from country areas to the cities is the fact that the average age of people on farms in the country today is moving up rapidly. In Italy the average age of farmers is 55 years. Ten years ago the average age in Australia - and I am quoting these figures off the cuff, taking a cue from the honourable member for Wilmot - was a little over 40 years and it has moved up to a considerably higher age. I have given those figures according to my memory. In every country that is the pattern and that is the danger as I see it. 
Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 
I rise in an endeavour to obtain information from the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  about clause 51 of this Bill. I am mindful of the restricted time in which we are able to debate the clauses of the Bill. In general practice I agree that competition is sound and should be encouraged. I hope that the Government takes that aboard and heeds it in the things that it does. I want to raise certain aspects relating to services within this Commonwealth of ours. I will name an organisation and a certain co-operative to obtain the information from the Minister about their position under this Bill, or this Act as the Minister hopes it will be. I refer to the Co-operative Bulk Handling Company of Western Australia which is in fact an agent operating, in the main, for the Australian Wheat Board. There we have 2 establishments which have been set up under Acts of Parliament which have been proved to be operating in the public interest. My question is simply this: Under this Bill what is the position of operations similar to those of the co-operative I have mentioned? I think that this matter is dealt with in the exceptions set out in clause 51, but it is not clear to me precisely what would be the situation relating to such establishments. The Minister mentioned that it is the action of the companies involved in such a practice - that is a practice of trade or providing services - which is relevant to this Bill. Organisations such as the two I have mentioned for purposes of reference to this clause, have proved themselves to be efficient. I am sure, in the mind not only of the people of Australia and the people whom they represent but also of the governments of the various State and the Commonwealth Government of Australia. We hope that they will be able to continue to play the role they have been playing for the last 20 odd years. I would like specific clarification by the Minister on the point I have raised. I have raised it only in a limited way. I am conscious of the shortage of time. There would be many more cooperatives and establishments such as those I have mentioned that have been set up, and I would like a clear definition as to what their situation will be under this Bill. 
The estimates before the Committee for the Department of Urban and Regional Development provide for an appropriation of some $10. 8m as against an expenditure of $4,891,462 in the last financial year. The increase, as far as I can gather from the estimates, is mainly for the purpose of the administration of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Perhaps the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  may care, if he has time, to explain in more detail what expenses are involved. I must comment on the statement made by the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  concerning local government and the Australian Country Party. It is not true to say that the Country Party has in any way downgraded the local government administration of this country. As a matter of fact, we agree entirely with the 3-tier system of government. Anyone who cares to look at the speeches I have made over the years will see that on many occasions I have raised the subject of the provision of financial assistance to local government. What we have been saying is that local government is a creation of the State parliaments and their legislation and therefore anything that is done by the Commonwealth should be done through the State Parliaments. We still abide by that view. 
It has also been said, not only in this debate but also in other debates, that nothing much has been done in the last 20-odd years about the development of inland areas. I heard that said in a debate a few days ago, I think about northern development. It was said that nothing much has been done about the development of the north. I would suggest to those honourable members who have made statements of this nature that they should have a look at northern Australia. Perhaps a good place to start is Western Australia, where literally hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent on the creation of industries. I am not trying to knock what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is doing, but I would like to know what will be the base of the development he referred to in the Bill he introduced tonight in relation to Albury-Wodonga. What I mean by 'the base' is the industry. 
We talk about Canberra and the way in which it has developed. The industry in Canberra is the public service. That is what it revolves around. Take out the Public Service and we lose Canberra. Albury-Wodonga or any other development within the Commonwealth needs a base, an industry. It is one thing to develop houses, streets and whathaveyou, but the people have to have jobs. It is necessary to have a system of industry within such developments. This is what I mean when I say that development has gone on in various parts of Australia right outside the cities, particularly in my State of Western Australia where hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in towns, railways and ports in developing industries and facilities for exporting from this country. The base of industry in those areas is, in the main, mining. If one wants to develop an area in Australia, no matter where it is, one must have industry. I listened very attentively to what the Minister had to say tonight and, so far as I know, he did not mention the word 'indus try'. I would appreciate it if at some time in the future the Minister were to explain to the House what the base of the Albury-Wodonga development will be, how it will be achieved, and what negotiations have been taking place between industry and the 3-tiers of government that are involved. I think he will agree with me when I say that it is necessary to have a base. 
The Grants Commission Bill was introduced into the House earlier in the session. It comes within the jurisdiction of the Minister. The Bill relates to the moneys that will be made available to local government throughout Australia. The local government bodies have been formed, according to a document which the Minister has put down in recent times, into regions. The point I wish to raise is that the regions concerned, particularly the local government bodies, are anxious to know how the system of allocating moneys will operate. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development and, I think, the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  made a joint statement recently - it does not appear to be dated - about the procedures to be followed in relation to Australian Government grants to local government. It was a brief statement. Apparently it was intended to give to local government some information relating to the making of applications to the Grants Commission. But the information in this respect is very brief indeed. The local government bodies throughout Australia want a detailed statement about what is to happen in relation to applications to the Grants Commission, what they will be able to apply for, and what areas will benefit from moneys provided under these grants. 
They are waiting for the appropriate Minister to bring down a statement on what the Government policy is in relation to Commonwealth aid roads grants. I take it that the program for the development of roads would not come within this area to be covered by the Grants Commission. The sooner the Minister makes a definite statement in relation to the areas of local government to which moneys will be made available by the Grants Commission the better it will be. It will be only wasting the time of local government bodies and their accountants throughout Australia if that is not made clear. A lot of work will have to be done by the local government accountants throughout Australia. There are, I think, 900-odd local government bodies in 
Australia. Their time will be wasted if the facts of the situation are not properly laid down. I appeal to the Minister to make this information available to the local government authorities as soon as possible. The Minister asked me to speak for only 7 minutes. I think I have spoken for 8 minutes. So I will resume my seat. 
The Bills before the House this evening are extremely important. They affect most people in Australia and arise from matters which were referred to in the Budget on 21 August last. That was the first Australian Labor Party Budget for some 20-odd years. Of course, Labor undid many things which had been done over that period. The first question I ask the Government is: Where is its mandate for these moves? On many occasions when matters have been raised in this House and outside it we have heard .that the Government has a mandate. Where is its mandate for certain taxation alterations in regard to the gold mining industry in Western Australia? Did members of the Government Party go to Kalgoorlie before the election and say that this is what they would do if they were put into power on 2 December 1972? No; I heard nothing of this. The Government has no mandate for this measure. As far as I know, it was never stated that the Government would take this action. The gold mining industry in Western Australia was coming through a very difficult period; it could see fresh light because of certain things which were happening in relation to the price of gold. But, just when this was happening, the Government imposed this tax. I understand that the Government has seen the light and that it will make some alterations during the course of the debate on this measure. I certainly hope that that is correct. 
As far as the wine industry is concerned - we have heard quite a lot about it tonight -  what is the Government's mandate? Considering all the speeches about this industry made in this House over the last year or two before the Government came into power, it did the very reverse of what it said it would do if it were in power. Where was there a mandate for this? Did the Government have a mandate? Practically all these measures hit at private enterprise in Australia and hit at Australians - not people overseas. Above all, of course, they hit at primary industry which was the prime target of this Budget. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  referred to the investment allowance which has been removed from the taxation schedule by these measures. This has been referred to by previous speakers but I just want to say that the honourable member for Banks referred to the investment allowance and all the advantages that it gave to industry. He referred to the big companies such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Does the Labor Party not realise that the bulk of people employed in this country are employed in industry and that one of the reasons for introducing the investment allowance was to increase the opportunities for business and workers in the industrial world? If one looks at the figures for the last few years to see what has happened about job opportunities in Australia, one will find that this has been very successful. But no, the Labor Party does not in any sense at any time refer to this aspect of the matter. Australia could not possibly have employed 5.5 million people, or whatever the number is, but for the policies of encouraging industry which had been followed over a number of years. The Treasury knows this perfectly well. But that incentive has completely disappeared. The honourable member for Banks said that this was only the start of what the Labor Party intended to do and that there was more to come, that the Government has the implementation of the Coombs report to complete. The honourable member for Banks said tonight that this was the first year and only the start. No doubt the people of Australia will be extremely interested to know what the rest is to be if the Government gets the opportunity. We had a special allowance for machinery in primary industry. That has been removed and this has been a severe blow to primary industry. This was another leg on which to build Australia and to earn foreign capital. Statements were made ten to fifteen years ago by the then Minister for Trade that if this country wanted to pay its way it had to export more. Certain figures were given. We reached that point in mid-1972. Not only primary industry and the people generally were benefiting from these exercises, but also the factories that were being built to produce machinery to bring about the position in which we find ourselves today. If the Government continues to destroy the incentives for private enterprise and private industry then I feel very concerned for the people of Australia. 
I have mentioned that in June 1972 we started to pay our way. We have reached that position so far as our current account is concerned. That position still held till the figures for the last quarter were produced; I think the relevant figure was about $41m. But the capital account has gone. It disappeared completely, and it went in the first 3 months of this year, as I outlined to the House in a speech earlier in the year. We lost $ 1,000m over a 3-month period. In the last quarter it was down a further $18m. This situation that we are in at the moment is being held by the current account - by our primary industries in the main, and by the exporters in the mining world who have been encouraged to come to this country with their capital and with their know-how and expertise to help this country to develop and to employ those people whom we wanted to employ. The primary industries have helped very largely in that field, and to remove these taxation conces sions from all of those industries - that is, all of the industries that are in fact- 
Debate interrupted, 
 Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House as to the present and future bunker supplies of oil in all Australian ports. What percentage of the Australian bunker requirement is imported from Arabian Gulf countries? Have supplies from overseas been cut? If so, to what extent? Has there been an increase in bunker oil prices? If so, by how much? If the Minister is not in a position to inform the House on the situation will he, because of the importance of this matter to Australian trade, make a detailed statement as soon as possible? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the Committee's report on the proposals in the 55th series of variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs as gazetted in 1925. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill affects 3 States. In this legislation, Queensland is allocated $10m, South Australia is allocated $ 19.9m and the sum of $8. 65m is appropriated for Tasmania. Western Australia was a claimant State under the principal Act until a few years ago when it withdrew following a decision arrived at in the course of a Premiers Conference. Some financial arrangements were made. I hope that Western Australia will be able to retain its position of monetary independence without the need to apply again to the Grants Commission. Earlier in the day the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  in addressing himself to this Bill spoke of happenings in Queensland. He stated that very little was received by that State from certain developments there. He was referring in the main to the bauxite industry in Queensland. Very little was being returned to Queensland from those enterprises. But the honourable member told only part of the story. A few days ago I referred to some of the development taking place in Australia and suggested that some honourable members should take a trip to see what is happening beyond the cities of Australia in terms of development. A lot of this development has been occurring in Western Australia. There seems to be very little evidence that Canberra knows what it is all about. 
Today the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  made very false statements about the benefits which have been derived by the various States and the Commonwealth as a result of the introduction of large amounts of money, running into hundreds of millions of dollars, which are needed to develop various projects. There is not just a royalty paid to the State Government. There is the development of entire towns. The railways are built by developers and the ports are built by developers. This message is coming home to even Ministers of his own Party in Western Australia - Labor Ministers. I want to refer to the heading on the front page of today's Western Australian Press because of the things said by the honourable member for Bowman earlier in this debate. The newspaper article is headed WA Minister' and the next 2 words are: Canberra mad'. The article states: 
The Western Australia Minister for the north-west,  Mr Bickerton,  yesterday described as mad the Federal Government's policies limiting foreign investment in developing remote areas. 
He said: 'I can say unequivocally that without foreign capital our remote areas will not be developed. 
It is a matter of sensible people sitting down to work out how to arrange this foreign capital which at no time will prevent local capital coming in'. 

 Mr Bickerton's  criticism of Federal policies is the first in such blunt terms by any Western Australia Minister. 
His remarks were similar in sentiment to comments by Opposition spokesman in Western Australia and Canberra, but carry more weight politically because he is a Labor Minister criticising a Federal Labor Government. 

 Mr Bickerton, who attended the first meeting of the Northern Development Council in Canberra this week, said that the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  held similar views. 
We did not have anything in the North West till we got foreign capital,'  Mr Bickerton  said. 
It is not a matter of knocking back local capital, it is a question of getting capital - foreign or local. 
The Australian content has not been available.' 
I could read a lot more of what  Mr Bickerton  has said in a similar strain. It is precisely what I have been saying in relation to these things in this House in recent times. The only way in which we can develop this country, in view of the magnitude of the things that have to be done, is with very large amounts of capital. We have seen this happening in Western Australia but I fear that as development is being held up because of certain policies of this Government it may be necessary at some future time for Western Australia to go again to the Commonwealth Grants Commission to seek assistance. I hope that will not be the situation but unless the people in Canberra, in this Parliament and the Government of the day, can see what is required and can change their policies I am afraid there will not be much more of this development taking place. 
I have every faith in our country; I have every faith that the Australian people will in time be in a position to supply large quantities of capital for this sort of development. But at present the bulk of the capital and the knowhow required to do these things which are so necessary is coming from overseas. This has never been more important that it is in our oil industry today. Over the last few years we had a program which up to this point has provided 70 per cent of our oil requirements. But now the know-how and capital which has been coming here is disappearing very rapidly. That is something we cannot afford in view of the politics that are being played in the Middle East today and which, I might say, are extremely dangerous for any country or group of countries in that or any other part of the world to be playing. An explosive situation could occur if those countries continue to apply those sorts of tactics. Australia cannot afford to lose one day in getting on with the job of finding the quantities of oil that no doubt exist in this country. Britain has done it in the North Sea, although it will be a few years before she can really harness it. 
To get back to this Bill, it is interesting to note that Western Australia was given a grant back in 1910, which was before the Grants Commission was established, of some $500,000. Tasmania was given a grant in 1912. South Australia was given a grant in 1929. The Grants Commission itself was not established until 1933. The reason why there was a need for such a grant at that time was that the claimant States, of which Western Australia was one and I think South Australia and possibly Tasmania were the others, were dependent mainly upon agriculture and did not have the industry in which to generate the finance necessary to encourage development within their borders. The Grants Commission was set up with the object of assisting those States. The basis at that time for the making of claims was mainly the disabilities suffered in relation to development within the States themselves. All sorts of arguments were advanced in those days. But the situation is somewhat different today in relation to the way in which the grants are in fact made. Quite a different formula is adopted. I thought I had it in front of me, but that does not appear to be so. 
The Grants Commission has done quite a useful job in this area over a number of years. 
Its charter has been extended considerably into other areas following the passing of legislation by this House earlier this year. The Grants Commission's responsibilities have now been brought into the area of local government. In fact the local government regions that were drawn up were the subject of a document tabled some weeks ago by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  There is a considerable amount of confusion in the local authorities throughout Australia as to precisely what terms and conditions are applicable to the making of applications for these grants. I wrote to the Minister quite recently asking him for further information on this matter. I again appeal to him to spell out or to have somebody within the Government spell out in precise terms to the local authorities throughout Australia how applications should be made for grants in this respect. I assure the Minister that there is quite a considerable amount of confusion on this matter right throughout Australia. 
As I read it the provision for making application for grants is laid down in the 1973 report of the Grants Commission. Time is against rae quoting from the Grants Commission report as it relates to this area. At page 36 of the report there is reference to what the authorities have to do. As I read it they have to make application to the Special Minister of State, who, if after due consideration he thinks it is fit to pass on to the Grants Commission, passes it on and who, if he does not think it is fit to pass on, will not pass it on and it therefore will never see the light of day. It is necessary to spell out these things so that local government bodies throughout Australia will know precisely where they stand and what their accountants have to do. I made a plea to the Minister last week, I think it was, and I make it again to let us have the details so that everybody will know what to do. 
The Grants Commission, of course, covers only some sections of the requirements of the various claimant States. As far as the States as a whole are concerned, the Commonwealth has used section 96 of the Constitution to make grants for many purposes over many years. One, for instance, is water supplies. A considerable amount of money has been spent on water supplies from grants made to the various States over the last 20 years. 
Debate interrupted. 
I was referring to other grants that had been made to the various States under section 96 of the Constitution which are separate from those made by the Grants Commission. I want to refer to a grant which has been made available to Western Australia for a number of years. Under the Western Australian (Southwest Region Water Supplies) Agreement Act 1965-71, the Commonwealth has been providing financial assistance of up to $12m by way of interest bearing loans to Western Australia to accelerate works undertaken by the State to extend the comprehensive water supply scheme in the south-west portion of the State. The new areas which are being served total approximately 4 million acres. The Commonwealth assistance extends over an 8 year period from 6 July &gt;1965 and is on a dollar for dollar basis. Repayments of these loans will be spread over 15 years, commencing 10 years after each advance is made. Payments by the Commonwealth to 30 June 1972 were $11.8m including $2m in 1971-72 and it is estimated that payments will amount to $158,000 in 1972-73. 
It has been put to the Government that the scheme be extended and that financial assistance again be made available by the Commonwealth to complete the works when these payments have been finalised. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to that request as this is a very important scheme. As I said earlier in my address the State may not be able to carry out the work over a particular period as is required. The scheme could not be completed without Commonwealth help. 
As I see it there are many problems under the Grants Commission scheme in arriving at a formula which is satisfactory to all. One is the amount of tax which is levied by a State. 
For instance, revenue received by New South Wales from poker machines licence fees has no counterpart in other States. I hope that the Grants Commission would not apply the principle which it applies in other areas such as the registration of motor vehicles. I think that if a claimant State does not apply as high a registration fee as a non-claimant State, it should not be forced to do so. I cite that as an example that could be considered. I would ask the Government to clarify at some time whether the widening of the Grants Commission's powers under the Act which was passed earlier will extend to local government regions around Australia. I support the Bills before the House. 
The 2 Bills before the House which refer to matters relating to the Public Service are quite important. In the early stages of the second reading speech the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  indicated what they were all about. Public Service Bill (No. 4) is to remove certain provisions relating to employment for women. A lot has been said in more recent times relating to the numbers of women now employed throughout Australia by various industries. These figures are growing. From the outset I should like to say that statistics do not tell the facts of life in this area or in many other areas. The employment of women has come more to the forefront as far as the public and statistics are concerned in more recent times, but I assure this House and the nation that everyone should know that women have been in the workforce in Australia for a long time - since there have been people in this country. They have not been registered in any statistical form and have not been recognised in many cases. But in fact the very foundation of the nation which was laid in carving out the various farms and production in the country areas of Australia in most cases was a joint operation with husbands and wives. The wife proceeded, without any fear whatsoever, to carry out her part of the development program, and she did so with very little recognition from the nation. 
Of course it would not have been unusual to go onto farms in years gone by, and still today, and find women cooking for and looking after many men with no recognition whatsoever by the nation. Women have been in the work force for a long time. Women are now moving into other areas within the Public Service. That is what we are speaking about today. 
Australia has a uniform education system. Boys and girls attend the same school and in the majority of cases rub shoulders with each other right through to the university stage although this pattern is not always maintained in the final years of their education. These children are taught in the same forum and, in the main, through the same education system. But apparently at some period beyond formal education the habit is to discriminate between males and females. With that uniform education system running through almost to university level - in some cases it extends to university level - there is no reason at all why that pattern should not continue into employment in the work force. As we have discovered in the operations of this House in more recent times, there is no reason why female reporters cannot carry out the duties which male reporters solely performed for many years. 
Different circumstances apply in some areas in which women would like to be accepted as members of the work force. They are capable of working in the Public Service for example but they have other responsibilities in relation to their homes. They are not in a position to carry out a full 8 hours work each day for a S-day week. But they are in a position to do a few hours work each day. I believe that the period worked could vary to a great extent with women working for a few hours each day and also carrying out their responsibilities in their homes. At the same time they are 'being useful to themselves in an earning capacity and also useful to the nation as a whole by for a few hours each day, applying the skills which so many of them have. 
May I have your attention,  Mr Speaker,  for a moment on this very point? I do not know whether what I propose comes precisely within your area of responsibility. There are 125 members in this House - I should exclude for the purposes of my argument the 27 Ministers, yourself and one or two honourable members - who do not have permanent secretaries here. The work load being faced by members in Parliament House is increasing every year. You have been a member here,  Mr Speaker,  for a long, long time and you would appreciate the situation which has developed. 1 know that a problem exists because of the shortage of accommodation for members and staff. I am speaking of women being employed for a short period in the Public Service work force. I assure you, and I feel I can speak for a number of honourable members, that many of these ladies could 'be employed for a few hours only each day to act as secretaries to members who so require secretarial service. I am sure that there are in Canberra many women who would be available to be employed in these positions. The need for additional secretaries is growing in Parliament House. I know that we have secretarial assistance. What I instance is an example of how the availability of stenographers and typists for a few hours each day would take a tremendous weight off the work load of a number of members of this Parliament. 
This principle could flow through into a number of areas. The principle could be applied to many areas of employment including the Commonwealth Public Service, where people who have taken the trouble to acquire certain skills but are not able because of other responsibilities to perform a full day's work, could carry out duties utilising their skills for a few hours each day. I believe that this principle could be applied to the nursing profession in respect of which, for instance, women have been trained and then have worked for a number of years at a hospital somewhere. Many of these women have then married and assumed other responsibilites. At a certain period in life a woman may wish to return to the nursing profession. But she may not be able to return for a full working day for 5 days a week, particularly in view of the shift work that is involved in the nursing profession. But that woman could be available to work a ;number of hours each day. We should be looking at the practical application of methods of utilising the skills of these people. 
I do not intend to speak for very long in this debate but another issue which I wish to mention is the reduction from IS years to 10 years of the qualifying period for furlough or long service leave. This proposal represents another improvement in the working conditions of the Australian Public Service. As I have said many times before, nobody objects to improving the conditions of people in this country or, for that matter, people anywhere else in the world. The problem that Australia  faces today is inflation. This worries not only the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  but also everybody else in this country. In relation to various aspects of working conditions - I am speaking about the actual work performed in a year and the remuneration received for that work - no country can ignore completely the circumstances of the day when making or taking decisions with respect to working conditions. 
In relation to any decisions taken on working conditions, productivity must be considered. Not only honourable members but also employees and employers in Australia, including the Government of the day which is the largest employer in this country, must be aware - and I think that everybody would agree that this is necessary - that in making decisions of this nature an eye must be kept on considerations of productivity which must be involved because variations in Public Service conditions flow through to the whole work force in our community, once a decision to change those conditions is taken. 
I repeat that I have no objection whatsoever to improvements in the terms and conditions of employment of the Australian work force. But I do believe that we must view seriously the circumstances that are operating at the moment in our economic system in which the rate of inflation is increasing rapidly. We cannot afford to let inflation run away unchecked. Nobody can deny that Australia enjoys a very high standard of living. There are always pockets of poverty around but, in general terms, we have built up a high standard of living and the Australian people wish to retain that standard. If we in this chamber and in the other place across the King's Hall take responsibility in these matters right along the line together with employee and employer, we can retain that high standard of living which we have created over the years. I do put emphasis on this point. 
Another purpose of this legislation is to modify the current blanket prohibition on officers of the Australian Public Service accepting directorships. I have spoken before on this matter as to whether people who have certain qualifications in the Public Service should be able to make themselves available to the Australian work force and be accommodated in that area. In considering this legislation, we are looking at the acceptance of directorships by public servants in various establishments in Australia. If men and women are capable by reason of their qualifications of carrying out certain duties in certain positions, in my book regardless of where those duties may be carried out the benefit of those qualifications and that expertise should be taken advantage of. That is what this country wants. 
A lot of nonsense has been talked - perhaps a lot of sense has been talked also - about overseas capital coming into Australia. No doubt exists that the value of all the capital in the world entering a country will go down the drain if that country does not have the knowhow to use that capital to advantage. We all know this. Over the years, Australia has had to import know-how. This brings to my mind the discussions earlier in this week in this House about the mining industry when we considered the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. I did not speak in that debate but I listened to it with some interest. 
I recall to my mind immediately the time when the first oil well was sunk in this country in the search for oil. That oil well was sunk at Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia. At that time, I took the opportunity to visit Exmouth Gulf. I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that I aim  not digressing too far from the provisions of this Bill. I had the opportunity at that time to look at what was going on. We found that a rig had been established at Exmouth Gulf. It was the first in Australia and, incidentally, found a little oil. From memory, each shift of 8 hours involved 5 men - 15 in all were employed - of whom 3 were Australians and 2 were Americans. We had no expertise whatsoever in this field. The Americans were teaching the Australians how to do the work, how to carry out the job, how to drill and how to find oil. Expertise, as well as capital, was coming into the country. Through the provisions of this Bill in relation to directorships, we should seek to use totally the expertise available in Australia and therefore allow public servants to move into these positions. I have no objection whatsoever to that being done. Having said those few words, I indicate that I support the provisions of this legislation to which I have referred. 
I am sure that all Australians were pleased to welcome the Queen and Prince Philip, together with some of their family, to Australia and were particularly pleased that the Queen opened this session of the Parliament. We have heard a lot in recent times about what might be a change in Australian parliamentary and Australian Government procedures but I have yet to find a better system than that which we have at the moment, which is headed by the Queen of Australia. I sincerely believe that most Australians still think that way today. 
There are a number of things- referred to in the Queen's address to Parliament that I will mention but I want to refer first to some comments made earlier today by various honourable members. I have been listening to most of the proceedings during the course of the day and to this debate in particular. I think it was the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who mentioned strikes. He indicated that there were less people on strike in the last 12 months than in the 12 months prior to that. Figures relating to strikes were quoted in this House last year on several occasions. I quoted them myself. It is quite obvious that the strike situation, which is very damaging to any economy, has deteriorated in the last 12 months. If the honourable member for Phillip really got around the country, perhaps particularly in Western Australia, he would find out what is going on and would ascertain that there are shortages in many areas. This makes it very difficult for production lines to be maintained. 
My colleague the honourable member for Fisher said that it is worse than in wartime and that is true. Recently I have been looking at this problem. Normally if one walks into a tyre repair shop in a country town, for instance, the racks are full of tyres. That has been the case in recent years. People have been busy servicing the great primary industries and other industries throughout our country. Now one can walk into such establishments and find that the racks are almost empty. Tractor tyres are almost impossible to obtain. The situation is getting very dangerous. More than strikes could be involved but throughout this country there is a drastic shortage of spare parts, tyres . and machinery generally, and that situation will not be rectified unless men work. The standard of living that we have enjoyed for so many years and the rate of building we have seen in this country will not be maintained unless men are prepared to work. That really is the whole basis of the economy, providing that it is handled correctly at the top. I doubt if it is being handled correctly and I will refer to that in a few moments. 
Another comment to which I wish to refer was made earlier in the day by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  He said that farmers would be pleased because they would be able to plan ahead. I lost his train of thought. I could not quite follow him but that is what he said. At no time in our history have I known of greater uncertainty in industry - right across the board but especially on the part of farmers. At the time of the last Budget they were confused because of various amendments to the taxation scale. They did not expect them. In more recent times they have been confused even further by the removal of the superphosphate subsidy. 
They expect anything to happen, as my colleague from Victoria, the honourable member for Murray, suggests. The whole area is confused. For instance, prior to the last election promises were made about interest rates. It was promised quite openly at meetings held by Labor candidates which I attended that there would be a reduction in interest for farmers. Rates of 3 per cent or 3i per cent were mentioned. Today farmers are paying the highest interest rates they have ever paid in their lives. T fail to see how they can be sure of where they are going under this Administration. I have made those 2 comments about points made by previous speakers. 
Even private members of Parliament are somewhat uncertain about what is happeneing. The public is uncertain about what the Government intends to do. I have been listening with intense interest since 2 December 1972 to what the Government has been saying but it is very difficult to follow. On 9 October 1973 - incidentally, that happened to be my birthday - I made a speech in this House in which I referred to proposals then being put forward by the Government about the gas pipeline. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  interjected while I was speaking. I had mentioned - I think some other honourable members had mentioned it also - that the Government would have been better advised to allow that project to proceed as it was to proceed instead of the Government taking it over. The Minister for Overseas Trade followed me in that debate on 9 October, referred to what I had said and said: 
First of all, the Government has not spent any money on the pipeline so that could not have contributed much to the present inflation. So we would not have dealt with the inflation as it is by not spending money on the pipeline because we have not spent any on it 
The Minister repeated himself. He said that on 9 October 1973. I did not think that my memory was quite as bad as that so I checked the matter out. I found that on 31 May 1973 the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  had said this in this House: 
Five shipments of Japanese pipes, being of 34 inch diameter, have already arrived in Australia. Property in all pipes has been transferred to the Commonwealth and payment has been made by the Commonwealth on shipment. 
I do not have the figure but I think the Government had spent about $20m-odd at that time, which was 31 May. On 24 May the same Minister, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, said this in a speech: 
In fact we have taken delivery of the pipes progressively as they have come from Japan. We have paid for them. They are being stored in Commonwealth custody. 
What chance have the industries of this country and members of this Parliament, or anybody else in this country, of knowing the real position when 2 senior ministers speak 5 months apart in this House, one saying that the Government has not spent any money and the other saying that it has spent millions? Obviously the Government had spent the money. It is the conflicting statements in relation to these things which is what is so confusing. I point out that the extracts I read are from Hansard. 
Some honourable member suggests that I should get the Auditor-General to investigate this matter. That might be an interesting exercise because under the Constitution any moneys spent by a Government have to be spent as a result of a Bill being passed in this House. I doubt whether a Bill had been before us in May 1973 to enable us to pay for those particular pipes. It would be an interesting exercise. The point is that industry is confused, and why not? Industry leaders cannot find out what the Government means. The Government does not know itself. It is not as if the Minister for Overseas Trade is not a senior Minister. He is a senior Minister and we look upon him as a senior Minister. Although 5 months had elapsed, he did not know that the Minister for Minerals and 
Energy was spending millions of dollars buying pipes. During the debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill a lot of statements were made about Australian ownership of industries and resources. Of course all in Australia would like to see as much as possible owned by Australians; that is automatic. 
If the honourable member for Chifley wants to interject I will accommodate him any day. This country has to be developed. Australia has not had in the past and will not have in the future the equity and the know-how to develop to the full the type of projects that need to be developed in this country. We have a fine team of chaps in the mining area and in the energy area today. This team has been built up over the years. We have a fine team throughout the primary industries which can do a magnificent job, but the type of money - I am sure this would not be known to the honourable members for Chifley - that is involved in the development of some of the projects in this country is tremendous. People are willing to come to Australia and do the work that needs to be done. It is interesting to note that only today the Prime Minister in this House referred to his encouragement of investment by Australians, in other countries of the world. That is fair enough I have no argument with it. Why is the Prime Minister encouraging investment in other countries such as the Philippines or anywhere else? If he thinks that it is bad for moneys to come to Australia and be invested to help us develop this country, why is it not also bad for moneys to go from this country to develop some other country? There has been a lot of criticism of this type of thing. If nations want to get together and get over the hurdles which have existed for so many years of not understanding one another, I can think of no better way than by assisting in the development of various countries around the world with the know-how, expertise and moneys which are available. 
Some industries such as the off-shore oil exploration industry have been reasonably successful until recent times. If any member of this House or anybody else wants to make a study of the situation in that industry he will find that it is only through the resources and the experts around the world who have the knowledge to do what is in fact being done, that this industry has been developed. On the North-West Shelf in my own State drilling is being carried out in deeper waters than ever before. The techniques that are involved would not have been available in this country. They are techniques that are not available to any particular country. They are a combination of techniques. We find the north-west shelf project being jeopardised because of the actions of this Government. The project which has been successful up to date, is now able to go nowhere as far as delivery is concerned because it is unable to get a decision from this Government as to what the situation will be under legislation to be introduced, having in mind statements made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. People responsible for projects in which hundreds of millions of dollars are involved want to know from the Government precisely what the ground rules are. The people involved in the north-west shelf project are in exactly that position. This applies not only to them but to many other people trying to develop Australia, trying to do a job of work to earn the real money to build this country. As I said before, there is only one place in this country to get it from and that is out of the ground. That is what those people are trying to do. 
The Al West project in Western Australia has been held up because decisions have not been taken. I understand that some discussions have been going on this week in Canberra and perhaps in the last week or two. It is in relation to these sorts of projects that decisions have to be taken by governments. The Government presently requires 33 per cent of moneys coming into Australia to be deposited with Reserve Bank. That is the point at stake at the moment. As we see these things in Western Australia, where we have so many large projects, if the resources are not available from overseas we do not have the markets. I hope that the Government takes a decision on the Al west project very quickly. It has to do its research - I am not arguing about this - but Al west has been around for a long time and decisions could have been taken before today. Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd has indicated that it could be interested in building another major steel production plant at Kwinana in my electorate. This is another area in which the Government has to take a decision. I ask the Government what that decision will be. These are the questions being asked by industry, but industry is having great difficulty in getting answers. If the Government wants to see a country progress it has to have clear guidelines for industry, otherwise nobody will know where he is going. 
Another industry for which we battled for years to get markets overseas is the beef industry. What do we see now? We fought to get into the American market. We got contracts with Japan. I heard something said today about long term contracts. People who speak about these things should look at what is going on. Beef exports are drastically grinding to a stop because of the actions taken by this Government over the last twelve or fourteen months or however long it has been in office. One of the major issues which we on this side of the House warned the Government about at the time was the 3 revaluations - two by design and one by default. The Government is pricing itself out of the markets, and beef is one of those commodities which is moving out. The costs within Australia have risen tremendously and that is another reason. Freights between here and overseas have also increased, in the main because of the oil crisis and other costs. Another reason is the export tax imposed by this Government. I have given 4 examples of the problemss associated with this industry. If you add them together you reach the stage - this was in the Melbourne 'Herald' tonight and has been in the Press before - that there is a slump of 60 per cent in overseas sales. These are the reasons. Is the Government going to look at the position or is it going to let the beef industry go under? If the Government thinks that by doing this sort of thing it will make cheaper meat available in Australia it is very much mistaken. One of the markets we gained over the years was the market for boneless beef. This was a by-product, in the main, from the dairy industry. It was also the northern meat that no one wanted. Australia did not want it and it was not saleable in many places in the world except in the form in which it was being sent to America. We will lose that market if the Government does not take note of the situation and do something about it. To a large extent the Americans have taken the Japanese market because of this situation, and therefore our chaps in Australia are being asked not to send any more meat or very little meat to that market at the moment. 
I would like to mention a number of other things. I will have to skip some of them. In her address the Queen mentioned wool research. This is fine. I do not argue with this. One thing that worries me is that before the Australian Labor Party came to power it said it would do all sorts of things in relation to wool marketing if it came into power. I said very little during the first 12 months it was in office because I think a government needs a little time to find its feet. The Government is now in its second year of office and it is now time that it said what it will do. It has a report from the industry, and we want to hear something about what its intentions are. The wool industry is a great industry but it needs support by the Government in the form in which the previous Government gave it. I do not mean a subsidy. It has not had a subsidy. It is a matter of the industry having capital backing from the Government. All that has been borrowed over the years has been paid back by the industry. What the wool industry seeks is some backing and some understanding. It is another industry which requires understanding by the Government and by those in the industry itself. 
On the subject of confidence in an industry, as I have mentioned, in the last Budget the Government altered sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Those sections dealt with water and fodder conservation and other matters of that nature. Previously those who were developing properties in this country, especially in Western Australia, were able to write off in one financial year the amounts involved in the development. Now the normal tax scales are applicable to those people. This concession was not provided in the form of a subsidy. Honourable members must understand the whole situation in relation to the development of a country. If money is made available by those people who go out into these areas to develop that country, those people must have some sort of assistance. Taxation assistance of the type that I have just referred to fs the kind of assistance that they want. 
Tonight, we have talked about national disasters. The assistance provided by the former taxation concession was an effort to assist farmers to help themselves by installing additional water and fodder storages. Now this assistance has been taken away. In the long run, the Government will be called on to meet the difference as a result of the catastrophes which may be in front of us. Over the years, we have seen the cycle of events. 
Floods are occurring at the moment but the droughts of earlier years will be back. The removal of those sections of the Act will not help the situation one little bit nor will that action assist the development of this country, about which I have been talking tonight. 
Country Party supporters - Hear, hear! 
The International Monetary Agreements Bill now- before the House is an important Bill, not because of the amount of money which it makes available but because of the concept behind this the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and what it does. World instrumentalities such as this that are set up to assist various countries around the globe do a tremendous job. Most of the discussion this afternoon has been about the economics of the whole exercise. I suppose in the long run this matter comes down to economics but I think we are concerned here with a human exercise in more ways than one. What we are trying to do is to harness the resources of the world and to redistribute those resources to countries which are less fortunate than ourselves. When one sees some of these projects which 'are located in countries in Asia and elsewhere which are unable to harness their own resources one can start to appreciate what this operation is all about. For instance, the harnessing of the tributaries of the Indus River is one project which the World Bank has been financing for some time. 
Many hundreds of engineers from around the world are brought to one location to harness rivers and to generate electricity, which are the 2 main objectives of their work. However, at the same time thousands of men who would not otherwise have an opportunity to learn the skills required in harnessing the water are employed in these operations. The exercises that are embarked upon as a result of these loans are of tremendous benefit. I believe they do many things. They bring about goodwill between nations. Engineers and others who are involved in and supervise these projects contribute to this. Also, the people of a country are brought into a new area of industrial development. Of course, the electricity that is made available sets in motion the industrial organisation throughout the country concerned. People are able to be employed in a greater number of different pursuits than otherwise would have been the case. Also, such schemes make a lot of water available for agricultural and other pursuits which means that a greater beneficial use can be made of a country's resources. In addition, many people are able to attain a higher standard of living. 
These projects are designed to help people in various parts of the world to help themselves, and this is a much better ideal than what are sometimes termed as handouts that have been made available and which possibly are still necessary in some cases. But the main objective is to help these countries to help themselves, countries which would not have the opportunity of doing so if this type of scheme was not available. The point I want to make is that it is not only money that is necessary; it is people. Such a scheme needs chaps with the necessary expertise who are willing to go into these nations and help them. It is an international operation not only in finance but in people. As I have mentioned there is an industrial concept in this operation to help industries to get the water and the power which are the bases of industry. Also, new industries will be able to be developed and in many cases they too will need assistance. 
As has been mentioned here today, poverty is growing in the world. Last year I mentioned the very serious situation that existed in regard to feeding the people of the world. The main reason why the world is in this situation is because of the changing weather pattern around the globe. The whole globe is affected. As we all know the greater proportion of the world's land mass is in the northern hemisphere and that is where a tremendous amount of water falls in the form of monsoonal and other rains. Also a great amount of water can be harnessed from melted snow. But that monsoon pattern is changing and has been changing for a number of years and, as I said last year, the whole weather pattern is moving south. It is quite possible that the rain and floods that have occurred in Queensland in recent months have resulted from that situation. 
The great land mass of the northern hemisphere is not getting the rains that it previously received. I say again that if this pattern does not change, and scientists see no indication that it is changing at the moment, the world will reach a very desperate position as far as food supplies are concerned. The supply of water which is available in the northern hemisphere can be harnessed and is still available from sources such as the Himalayas, for instance, which contain a certain amount of snow which will melt in certain areas. But the diminishing supply of water in the northern hemisphere poses an extremely dangerous threat to the people of the world and I do not believe that the people of the world have come to grips with this problem yet. 
Over the last few years America has put aside a certain amount of territory which for various reasons has not been put under crop but which is being used again because of this situation. We in Australia will do likewise - there is no doubt whatsoever about that so long as various incentives are made available by governments in the form of finance and so on. Of course, America is one of the biggest suppliers and exporters of food in the world. When one looks at the world situation generally and takes into consideration the amount of good agricultural country which has been taken up in Europe and Britain for the purpose of building roads, schools, houses and so on, one chu  sc. h  that the world weather pattern is extremely worrying. No doubt the World Bank knows about these things. It certainly should. The people in the Bank who are responsible for distributing money should be looking at projects which can help to increase the world's supply of food. 
We can do certain things in this country in relation to food production, but it would be a very small contribution when considered against the total grain requirements of the world of which rice is one of the big components. When we consider the populations of countries such as Bangladesh, for instance, which I understand has a population of 80 million people in 54,000 square miles, one can imagine the situation that will arise if this v/eather pattern continues. So the world of today should be viewing this situation very seriously. It should be making available capital of the type proposed in the Bill now before us so that the world food problem can be dealt with in the best possible way. 
Mention has been made of the amount of capital that will be at the disposal of the oil exporting countries as a result of the present oil prices around the world. It has been suggested that these accounts will be large, which they will. It has also been suggested that moneys should be made available from these accounts to the undeveloped countries of the world and this money could be used in the concept about which we are talking. This is fine. But take a country like India. I saw an article the other day which said that India would probably have to absorb something like 80 per cent of its foreign exchange to buy the energy that she requires in the present oil crisis. It would mean that she would pay this to a foreign oil exporting country and then would have to borrow it back with interest to do her development work. I think that this situation is a bit rough. 
The economists of the world should be able to work out a better system than that because in the long run the other 20 per cent of foreign capital would go in the repayment of interest, etc. This is a serious position. Between 1 January and 10 January this year the increases in the price of oil were tremendous. The increases did not quite double but they nearly doubled the previous price, and we know that there were some exceptionally large increases last year. This situation needs to be looked at. It will become extremely serious. I think that the oil exporting countries themselves, with the vast amount of wealth they will have at their disposal, would be well advised to make grants available to various countries for particular projects that are needed to feed, clothe and house the various peoples of the world who do not have the opportunities that we in this country have. The whole economic structure of the world is becoming a little confused, to say the least. 
Our balance of payments is in very good shape because of our large amount of exports in recent times, coming mainly from the agricultural and industrial spheres. Providing we have reasonably good seasons and providing our increase in industrial exports continues, our balance of payments should be sound for some time to come. But there are many countries which over the next two or three years, because of the increase in oil prices and energy prices around the world generally, will be in very serious financial trouble. A world international monetary fund of this nature must look at those 2 points - the food situation which will obviously develop if the weather pattern does not change, and the balance of payments of these countries. These 2 points are related. If a country's balance of payments deteriorates to the extent that all it can buy is oil, how can it buy any food and how will it get the necessary machinery required to build that nation? It simply will not be able to do so. This is the overall situation as I see it. I believe that the debate on the International Monetary Agreements Bill 1974 is where these things should be mentioned. I certainly hope that the international financiers and others around the world will take note of that situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the Government's refusal to waive the 33i per cent deposit rule for the Alwest project in Western Australia, a decision which the Western Australian Premier believes will kill the project. Will the Prime Minister explain to the House the reasons for the decision? Was it influenced by the 70 per cent degree of overseas equity in the project? If it was, I ask him what is the maximum degree of overseas equity that is regarded as permissible by his Government for similar development projects. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I did not hear the comment from the Leader of the House. I will have to ask him to speak louder if he is referring to this debate. This debate has resumed from 20 March and relates to the Wool Industry Bill 1974 which makes certain moneys available for the purposes of research and promotion in the wool industry and for the administration of the Australian Wool Corporation. Up to this point, the debate has been concerned mainly with research and promotion. We have heard many debates in this House in relation to these activities. No doubt research and promotion are important in most aspects of life. It has been proved beyond any doubt that research and promotion will not hold the wool industry, if I can use that term. We have seen millions of dollars spent on these 2 aspects over the years. Over the last few years we have seen the wool industry in dire straits, although millions of dollars has been spent on research and promotion. Everybody was saying how important research and promotion were. They are important, but they alone will not maintain a stable wool industry in this country. 
The most important feature of the Bill is the provision that finances the Australian Wool Corporation. It was obvious from past experience that without a sound selling policy and some organisation such as the Australian Wool Corporation to look after the interests of Australia and wool growers in general throughout Australia and supervise prices, about which I intend to say something before I sit down, the wool industry would return to the doldrums in which it Has been in the past, and all the research and promotion in the world by themselves would not save the industry without a sound selling policy and a government standing behind that policy. 
There has been some change in the levy that is to be placed on wool growers throughout this country. It is presently 2.4 per cent of the value of shorn wool, for 1974-75 it will be 2.75 per cent, but the Bill provides for a maximum rate of 3 per cent. This means in effect that within a period of 12 months there will have been 2 increases to be borne by the wool industry, and there could well be a third increase to bring the levy up to the maximum of 3 per cent if the price of wool is allowed to drop below the price at which it has been selling in the past. 
Nobody doubts the wisdom of research in any industry. It is important. I am not saying that it is not important. It is important, depending upon what sort of research is taken on. Nobody doubts the importance of promotion, but I have often wondered about some of the promotion which takes place in the wool industry. For instance, promoting some high fashion by Dior in Paris will not, in my opinion, assist the wool industry to any great degree. The majority of wool that is absorbed in the world is not in this area; it is in the common garment of the day, and I would suggest that very little of this wool sees any promotion. We know that a lot of money is spent on promoting high fashion and selected garments in the major cities of the world. I very much doubt the wisdom of that, but that is another subject. 
Today I want to speak mainly about the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation as associated with the present Government. It is interesting to note that on 20 March the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  mentioned that the Australian wool industry was in agreement with the proposals being put forward by the Government in this Bill, and he quoted as his source the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which he said was in agreement, and he suggested that therefore the industry was in agreement. This is a complete somersault by the Government on what it was saying when in opposition. We find this so often. When in opposition, the Government would not accept the findings of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on the ground that its views were not a true reflection of the views of the wool industry in Australia, but now we find the reverse. The Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  in his second reading speech made a similar observation to that of the honourable member for Wilmot, so the Government has changed course in relation to recognition of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
There has been a severe drop in the price of wool in more recent times. This is giving considerable concern to the wool industry. In December 1972 the average price of wool was 173.06c per kilo greasy. It continued very strongly right through 1973, when it was between 190c and 200c. In January-February 1974 it started to drop. The latest information which I have shows that in the week ended IS March - not so long ago - it had dropped to 157.32c, and it still seems to be declining. We have seen this happen previously, and that is why the Wool Industry Act 1972 was brought into being. As I said previously, all the research and promotion in the world were not doing anything as far as the industry was concerned. In 1970 the price of wool was down and so the original Act was brought in. It was very successful and was upgraded in 1972. Section 41 of the Act is important. That deals with what is termed the flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Corporation. It sets out the details of the scheme. I say quite frankly that this section of the Act gives all the power that is required to see that the price of wool is maintained at a reasonable level. I claim that at the moment the price is going down to an unreasonable level. Section 41 (3.) of the Act states: 
The Minister shall, from time to time, after consultation with the Treasurer, inform the Corporation in writing of the policies and principles that the Government of the Commonwealth considers should be followed and applied by the Corporation in the operation of its reserve price scheme. 
Sub-section (4.) states: 
The Minister may, on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth, if he thinks it necessary to do so, give a direction in writing to the Corporation with respect to the operation of the reserve price scheme of the Corporation, and the Corporation shall comply with the direction. 
It is interesting to note that sub-section (3.) provides that the Minister 'shall' and that subsection (4.) provides that the Minister 'may'. This is the whole crux of what I have been arguing in this House for so many years. Of course I do not know what the Minister or the Government has done in relation to section 41 of the Act. I would like to ask the Minister and the Government several questions. Firstly, has the Minister carried out his responsibilities under section 41 (3.) of the Wool Industry Act 1972? Secondly, how many times has the Minister written to the Corporation as provided for under this section since December 1972? Thirdly, what directions have been given by the Minister to the Corporation relating to the reserve price? Fourthly, what undertaking has been given by the Minister relating to the capital requirements of the Corporation? Fifthly, what direction has the Minister given to the Corporation under section 41 (4.) of the Act? If the Government and the Minister responsible will answer those questions we might know something of what is going on and whether the Government is supporting the Corporation. 
The capital that the Corporation had when the previous Government went out of office was substantial. It was made available by the previous Government when it was required by the Corporation, which operated with great success to bring the industry back on to its feet. I do not know what the Government ls doing, but I do not know that the price of wool is going down. Has the message been received by the Corporation from the Government as to what it is to do? The wool industry should know that it is not only the Corporation that is responsible for the carrying out of this Act, which is quite correct, but also the Government, which also is quite correct. The Government is also involved because the wool industry is so large. It is Australia's greatest industry; so much money is involved and so much capital is required. Let me say here and now that all the capital borrowed by and made available to the Corporation in one form or another - loans underwritten by the Government or moneys allocated under legislation passed by this House - has been repaid by the Corporation and interest has been paid on it. So it was a good investment for the Government of the day. All I want to say to the Government is that it is still a good investment. But what is the Government doing now? 
I would like the Government to tell the wool growers of this country where the Industries Assistance Commission fits into the picture. We know that the Industries Assistance Commission is charged with the responsibility of investigating the granting of assistance to industry. Has the situation developed through the enactment of the Industries Assistance Commission Act whereby the Government has to ask the Industries Assistance 
Commission to determine whether the Corporation is to have some capital backing? I would say that that is a totally impossible situation in which to put any industry. It is fairly obvious that that is the position in this respect because in putting forward its marketing plan the Australian Wool Corporation left out the major issue, that is, the financing of the plan. It did not leave it out entirely; it made some suggestions to the effect that it might be  a.bh  to get its money from private sources. Of course, no plan for this sort of operation can function successfully if it does not have the sound backing of the government' of the day. 
The Corporation, in its choice of what words to use in relation to that section of its report to the Government, said that it could possibly get finance from private sources. It gave no indication in its report that it wanted backing from the Government. I have no doubt that it had in the back of its mind the situation in relation to the Industries Assistance Commission and knew in its own mind - it probably had legal advice on this aspect - that if it asked for assistance from that source it would have to go before the Commission to get it. I say here and now that the Corporation cannot possibly work unless the government of the day is prepared to stand behind it, as it did prior to 1972. It was only the Bills that were put through this House and the other measures that were adopted by the government of the day that broke the stranglehold on the industry itself. 
That brings me to a statement which I read in the 'Australian' of 2 April, which is today's date, headed 'Rural industries must stand on own feet: PM'. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has obviously made a speech in which he has stated that he expects the rural industries to stand on their own feet. That is fair enough. I have said in this House on many occasions that the wool industry can stand on its own feet. But what does the Prime Minister mean when he says that? Does he mean that he will lend it no money but that it must stand completely on its own feet? Does that statement mean that the Government will not support the wool industry at all? What does the Prime Minister mean? 
The Prime Minister is reported as having gone on to say: 'We want fair prices for our wool and a stable system of marketing*. Unless the Government is prepared to back the wool industry with capital on a sound basis that situation will not be achieved. Surely experience has shown that to be the case. I would like some interpretation of what was meant by the Prime Minister when he said that. Of course he has also said that all subsidies will go. We have found that out in the short period in which the Australian Labor Party have been in government. All subsidies are going out of the window very smartly. All assistance is disappearing. Does the Prime Minister expect the rural industries to stand on their own feet in the true sense of the term? Will the other industries in Australia also be expected to stand on their own feet? 
 The shipbuilding industry is another classic example. Will it be expected to stand on its own feet? There are many industries in this country that receive high rates of protection. I am not arguing for or against protection at this moment. Whether it is or is not high is a different matter. The protection of industry is one subject that we could debate for a long time. The rural industries will be expected to stand on their own feet, as the headline suggests, but will the other industries in Australia also be expected to do so? Is tariff protection to be cut out entirely? That is what that statement means. Will all industries have to stand on their own feet? I can imagine what the unions will be doing around this country before very long if that situation develops. If this term were to be applied to the wheat industry I should expect that the Australian consumers would be called on to pay the world parity price for their wheat, which would be about double what they are paying at the moment. Is that what the Prime Minister means when he says that rural industries will be expected to stand on their own feet? Many industries would be in much the same position. These things have not been explained. 
Getting back to the subject matter before the Chair at the moment, I would like to see some statement made by the Government as to what it intends to do with respect to the wool industry. The Australian Labor Party made a lot of statements before December 1972 as to what it would do with the wool industry if it were elected to office. I could spell them out, but I do not think that that is necessary. The whole of the industry and everyone in this House knows what was said at that time. What is important now is not what the Government will do in relation to new legislation, although that may be of some importance, but what it will do in relation to the legislation that is on the statute book in the form of the Wool Industry Act 1972, which gives to the Government and the Corporation all the power in the world to do what needs to be done at the moment in relation to the provision of finance, which is what this Bill is all about. Is the Government prepared to stand by the sections in that Act? Is the Government prepared to stand up to the pressures from overseas. 
It should be remembered that 95 per cent of the wool clip is sold overseas. Pressure is being brought to bear by overseas countries to force the price down. They know only too well when the situation is getting a little weak. They try the market. If the Government is not prepared to stand up to them it will be an absolute tragedy for the wool industry of this country. I hope that some responsible member of the Government - the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  is not a member of this House - will stand up and make some statement as to what the Government is doing to stand behind the Corporation or will make a statement that the Government will not allow the wool price to descend to a lower level than at present. In my opinion it is too low now. If the Government allows the deterioration in the price of wool to continue and if the price of everything that the wool grower has to purchase today continues to increase it will be another tragedy for this great Australian industry. I ask somebody in authority - preferably the Prime Minister - to come into this House and tell us what the Government intends to do in relation to section 41 of the Wool Industry Act 1972. 
I rise to support the Superannuation (Distribution of Surplus) Bill which is now before the House. At the same time I must express some concern at the accumulation of such a large amount of money in a fund such as this. It seems to me that there needs to be a close investigation of the workings of the fund because it is obvious that other people's money which could otherwise have been used by the contributors is being put into this fund. Let me say firstly that there has been some discussion in this debate as to what should be done with this particular fund. I make my position quite clear - the money obviously belongs to those who contributed to the fund and it should return to those people who have contributed or to their dependants, whichever the case may be. Of course, because of the lapse of time, probably many people who have contributed to the scheme will not now be able to enjoy the benefits of it, but the majority of them will. 
It is interesting to note when talking about the growth of the surpluses that the fund has been running since 1922, which is some SO years. In its first annual report the Board recorded contributions of $256,254 from members of the scheme at 30 June 1923. This seems to be a modest sum when compared with the amount of contributions paid for the financial year 1971-72 of $56,083,196. The comparison of numbers is equally striking, with the number of contributors increasing from 26,876 in 1923 to 174,353 at 30 June 1972 and the number of pensioners increasing from 299 in 1923 to 30,450 at 30 June 1972. 1 cite those figures from the 50th annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year 1971-72. From those figures it will be seen that a considerable amount of experience has been gained over the 50 years, but we now find a surplus of the magnitude of $70,015,000. I stress that somewhere along the line a thorough investigation should be made. I understand that it has in fact been going on, but after 50 years a thorough investigation should be able to find better ways and means of collecting and returning moneys than has been the case in the past. The recommendation from the Superannuation Board, made following an investigation, stated quite clearly in the summary on page 10 of that report that the most appropriate course of action would be distributing cash on the basis of surplus assets of $ 0,015,000, as reported by the Actuary at 30 June 1972 as follows: Eligible pensioners $17,490,000 and eligible contributors $52,525,000. 
As I said previously, that is a tremendous amount of money to be lying in a particular fund. It has been made available by the contributors - that is, the public servants. I think that we will always have some problems with superannuation funds of this nature because, as has been mentioned earlier today, there are the problems of variations in our currency and our inflationary rates which we are finding very high at the moment, and of the opportunity for people making contributions to such a fund over a number of years to enjoy the same standard of living, or near enough to the same standard of living, on their retirement that they have been used to while being employed. It is obvious when one looks at the simple mathematics of superannuation funds that the younger public servant in the early stages of his employment in the Public Service is paying quite a small contribution compared with what he pays at a later stage if he is to pay in sufficient to give him an appropriate standard of living at the end of it all. This is a problem to which I have given a lot of thought over the years and it seems to me that any superannuation fund of this type must be extremely flexible in its operation if we are to arrive at the point of making available to people a sum of money which would be considered as being reasonable on retirement, not only for the contributor but also for his dependants, if that happens to be the case. 
I would hope that those who will be responsible for looking at this question in the future will ensure that surpluses of the magnitude with which we are dealing today do not accumulate again. Superannuation funds and similar funds are not meant to build up huge surpluses. This does not mean to say that they need not be in a sound financial position but being in a sound financial position is completely different from building up surpluses of some $70m-odd about which we are talking today. The people who earn the money should be entitled to that money. I make that point very strongly. No more than is necessary should be taken on their behalf to keep the Superannuation Fund in a sound position. I point out that we are talking now about members contributions and not the contributions which are made by the Government because, as has been stated in the reports, the Government does not make a contribution until such time as it is required. 
As I see it, the accumulation of this surplus represents a serious situation. Obviously, after 50 years experience in this field, if we have not been able to arrive at a better system than this, we should start all over again from square one and have a completely new look at the whole system. I think it has been mentioned that the Fund could be administered by the Treasury. This is possible, of course, because finances and Budgets are considered each financial year and any payments which are to be made would be appropriate to be considered in that Budget. However, if this is done obviously it is fairly reasonable to suggest that some contribution would need to be made at a later date by those who are recipients. I feel that perhaps a combination of both schemes can be worked out whereby the person making contributions to the Fund, or his dependants whichever the case may be, can enjoy at the end of his working life and continue to enjoy a reasonable standard of living while at the same time during his working years making a reasonable contribution to the Fund which would not result in this type of surplus which we are considering today. 
I rise to support the motion before the House in relation to the redistribution of electoral boundaries to create an additional seat in Western Australia. The population in Western Australia ' has been increasing rapidly for some time. The presentation of this matter before the House today is, in fact, very acceptable to all Western Australians. At the time that the report was drawn up by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Western Australia, the total number of electors in that State was 574,028. This figure is probably a little out of date today because of the continuing population growth in Western Australia. In 1972 the number of electors in my own electorate of Canning was 65,069. By 1973 the number of electors had increased to 72,975. By 29 March 1974 the number of electors stood at 76,683. Those figures give some indication of the growth in that electorate. 
Most of the electoral growth in Western Australia has occurred, of course, in the southern area of Perth. The industrial development of Kwinana has resulted in a tremendous growth rate in that area which, of course, is one of the areas that will be incorporated in the new seat of Tangney, as it is now to be named. 
The area of the electorate of Canning will be considerably increased in the redistribution. The number of electors in Canning will be reduced and its area will be increased to 49,064.5 square miles. Of course, its size is quite small in relation to the area of the electorate of Kalgoorlie which, I notice, now has an area of 876,980.3 square miles. The electorate of Kalgoorlie, I am sure, is still by far the largest electorate in the world. The electorate which I now represent, with the addition of those extra square miles, will extend into the Esperance area, which was previously in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. The population in that area, again, is increasing as it is in most areas of Western Australia at the moment. 
May I say one or two words in relation to the change in the name first proposed for new electorate.  Mr C.  Y. O'Connor, as I have mentioned in this House on numerous occasions, was a well respected and a very fine engineer. He did a great deal for Western Australia. The Government has decided to name the new seat Tangney after Dame Dorothy Tangney. We in Western Australia respect Dame Dorothy Tangney very much. She is certainly respected by the Parliament in Canberra for her long period of service here. Nobody can object on this occasion, I think, to this new electorate being named after Dame Dorothy. But I ask that, perhaps at some future date, after further growth in Western Australia consideration be given to honouring that very great engineer,  Mr C.  Y. O'Connor, by naming a Federal electorate after him. Following his history, one can only appreciate what  tie  did for the State of Western Australia as a whole. I think in this context the honourable member for Curtin mentioned naming a new Western Australian electorate after someone else. 
Again, I am very pleased that the Western Australian people will now have an opportunity to elect 10 members to the House of Representatives. As I said earlier, the opportunity for the electors of Western Australia to elect 10 members to the House of Representatives has been a little overdue for some time. I appreciate the action of the Government in bringing this motion before the House today. I anticipate, of course, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  himself acknowledged, that there will be very rapid growth in the enrolments in some electorates in Western Australia and, therefore, possibly it will not be very long before another redistribution of boundries will be required to provide 11 seats for Western Australia. Certainly another redistribution will be required to even up electoral numbers in the electorates. I think this is a problem which exists in most cities in Australia today. The population in outer metropolitan areas of our cities grows so rapidly that it is very difficult for a redistribution of boundaries to keep up to date with those changes. A redistribution is made and new boundaries are laid down. But the rate of population growth, being what it is, means that the figures on which that redistribution was made are distorted very quickly. I do not think that there is any way at all in which we can avoid this situation. 
In this redistribution of boundaries an opportunity existed to adopt the variation of 20 per cent above or below the quota. It is noted, of course, that the Distribution Commissioners took due note of that factor. The Commissioners took into consideration that requirement and varied the appropriate electorates accordingly. In his speech on this motion the Minister for Services and Property indicated that the number of electors in the proposed Kalgoorlie Division would be varied by 15.57 per cent below the quota and that the number of electors in the proposed Swan Division would be varied by 14.12 per cent above the quota. So, consideration has been given to the provisions of the Act. 
Another factor which the Commissioners took into consideration - it is quite an important point - was the boundaries of existing seats. The Commissioners disturbed as little as possible, as far as I can see, existing electoral boundaries in Western Australia. But at the same time they created another electorate in the Perth metropolitan area. By and large, I commend the Commissioners for the job that they have done. Their task was not an easy one. I believe that the redistribution of boundaries will be to the advantage of the State of Western Australia. 
