 I address a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Was a Torres Strait pilot in charge of the Oceanic Grandeur' when it had a collision with a submerged object? What recent hydrographic surveys have been carried out in Torres Strait? What vessels are available to carry out such surveys? Because of the extensive use of this passage by larger and deeper draft tankers and bulk ore carriers, can early action be taken to ensure that charts of Torres Strait are kept up to date? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to the fountains being set up in Lake Burley Griffin. 
I see. What ls the cost of same? What is the cost of operating the fountain? Is this cost comparable with that of other fountains operating overseas? Was an alternative pumping system with considerably reduced operating costs suggested? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
As the benefits of a uniform rail gauge link from eastern to Western Australia become more tangible, what plans has the Government for a similar uniform rail link from Northern Queensland to the south. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are young people who fail to pass a medical examination because of faulty eyesight, epilepsy or diabetes barred from joining the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Does the Commonwealth Public Service accept some responsibility for the employment of these people. 
How many persons who failed medically were accepted into the Commonwealth Public Service in each of the last S years. 
How many have been rejected in each of the last  5  years. 
This being my maiden speech in this session .1 would hope that I might be accorded the privilege that has been given to honourable members making their maiden speeches. I feel at home following the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  because the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the honourable member for Bennelong and I have spoken in nearly every debate on housing since I have been here. He has not changed. When we proposed amendments for the inclusion of widows, divorced people and credit unions his attitude was the same as it is towards the amendments proposed by the Australian Labor Party on this' occasion. He has acknowledged that the maximum value allowed is not in keeping with present day trends but this is an acknowledgment by the Government that the cost of housing has increased. I do not think he is prepared to acknowledge that the greater part of this cost is absorbed in the cost of land. 
He has said this increased cost of land is a matter of demand; that there is not sufficient land to meet the demand. In the Northern Territory, particularly around Darwin, the Commonwealth of Australia has the sole prerogative in the acquisition and provision of land for home building, lt could be thought that here land would be readily available - there are vast spaces available - but the cost of land is such that many people, particularly wage earners, are deprived of the privilege of owning their home irrespective of what is provided under this legislation. This legislation is piecemeal legislation. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  when moving the amendment quoted the words of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, the then Prime Minister, in his election speech in 1963. He said: 
But there are 2 special problems which we propose to help to solve. 
He dealt with the homes savings grant and the housing loans insurance. The Homes Savings Grant Bill was introduced in May 1964 by the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  It is interesting to recall on that occasion he acknowledged the complexity of the legislation and said it was quite possible there could be various amendments to it. In fact he said if he was not responsible for the legislation he would not know what it was all about. These are the words of the present Treasurer, who was then Minister for Housing. He said that these measures were conceived during the 1963 election campaign, Typically, we had to wait until 9 months later for the introduction of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
We cannot get away from the fact that the legislation now before us helps those people who have the money more than it does those who are trying to acquire it. No matter what may be said about incentives to people to save money, the fact is that those who do not have to save, who have money available to them because of their position or because of the circumstances into which they were born, have no difficulty at all in obtaining the maximum assistance while those who have to battle through their lives really must battle to obtain the maximum assistance under this legislation. These are the real facts of life. 
I am reminded that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser),  who is back with us again in this House, on the occasion of the debate on the Homes Savings Grant Bill in 1964 pointed out to the House what a harvest would be reaped by a person such as the late Tommy 
Manville - the much married Manville - who married 11 times. If each of his wives had been under 35 years of age Tommy Manville would have qualified in 1964 for ยง2,750 under this scheme while the amount after the passage of this legislation would be $5,500. There is no way in the world that Tommy Manville would be a person who would really be assisted by such a grant. That amount probably would pay for his expenses for one night only. It certainly would not pay for the alimony of any one of his 11 wives, although I understand that he married one of them twice. I make this point to illustrate that this scheme does assist more those people who already have the money rather than those who are trying to save the money. 
Various speakers on the Government side have said that a need exists to encourage people to save in recognised forms so that the money saved will be made available for housing investment. We recognise various organisations such as building societies and the rest as approved savings organisations under this scheme. But we do not recognise savings in the form of insurance. After all, insurance companies are obliged to contribute considerably to Commonwealth loans. Nor do we recognise the investment of savings in Commonwealth loans which, I understand, if rumour has it correctly, will pay a higher rate of interest than the building societies - that is, 6% - in the very near future. So we do not even recognise savings in what are gilt edged securities, that is. Commonwealth bonds. 
Through this measure the Government is recognising the increase in the cost of housing. The maximum amount in the original legislation in 1964 which attracted a grant was $14,000. This amount was increased in 1967 to $15,000. Under the present legislation it will be increased to $17,500. The Government purports in this Bill to recognise credit unions. People belonging to credit unions were led to believe that promises were given in this direction. I have a letter dated 6th March from  Mr Stephens,  the Manager of the Queensland Credit Union League  Lid.  He states: 
The 17,500 members of the Queensland Credit Union Movement were elated to learn of the Federal Government's intention to allow savings  deposited by members in Credit Unions to qualify under the provisions of the Homes Savings Grant Act. Following the statement by the Minister for Housing, Dame Annabelle Rankin, in Canberra on Thursday 5th March 1970 which appeared in the Financial Review' dated 6th March 1970, this elation has turned to utter dismay. 
This statement by Dame Annabelle Rankin makes it abundantly clear that the Government is fully aware that existing Credit Unions cannot meet the conditions prescribed and hence will not qualify to participate under the Act. 
The Government while pretending in one respect to recognise credit unions has, on the other hand, laid down conditions, which have been pointed out by previous speakers, that makes it almost impossible for credit unions to make such loans. This is certainly impossible in those States where restrictive legislation places upon the credit union movement requirements regarding loans which will mean that no credit union will be in a position to register as an approved saving society. I point out that in New South Wales where, as the honourable member for Reid pointed out, credit unions have assets of over $l00m with 70% of those assets available for loan, legislation limits the amount of each loan for housing purposes to $4,000. The Commonwealth requires a maximum loan of $7,000 to be made available for housing purposes otherwise applicants do not receive the benefit of this scheme. In Victoria the limit on credit union loans is $3,000. In South Australia the maximum loan that can be made by credit unions is $2,000. The same restriction applies in Western Australia. No limit exists in Queensland. In the Australian Capital Territory the maximum unsecured loan is $800 while the maximum for a secured loan is $2,000. 
I wish to place on record the position of credit unions in Queensland. 1 refer first to the ABC Queensland Credit Union Ltd. It approved 76 loans for home purchases and home improvements last year which were valued at $41,550. In addition, 27% of loans for assistance with housing represented 27.2% of the value of all advances. The point that I wish to make is that a house is a house, but it takes more than just a roof, a floor and walls to make a home. This is the point: The credit union movement has played an important part in the provisions of bridging finance and second mortgage loans to cut down on repayments. These things are crippling young couples who are desirous of purchasing a home. Possibly these young couples are crippled for a lifetime because of the high interest rates charged. The credit union movement has played an important part by making funds available for bridging finance purposes. 
I come now to the Clerks Credit Union Ltd in Queensland. In the last year it made 40 loans for home purchases and home improvement. These loans were valued at $13,840. I mention next the Royal Australian Nursing Federation Credit Union Ltd. These are all small credit unions. In the last financial year, that credit union allowed 1.7 loans for home purchase and home improvement valued at $11,450. That is not a large amount when we consider that under this legislation credit unions will be obliged to make available a loan of $7,000 for their applicants to be eligible for this grant. 
In the period 1st July 1969 to 31st December 1969, the Queensland Teachers Credit Union Ltd approved 94 loans for land valued at $160,460, 38 loans for home purchase valued at $60,650 and 29 loans for home renovations valued at $32,100. The Postal Technicians Credit Union Ltd in that same period approved 14 loans for houses valued at $17,740, 31 loans for land valued at $37,345, 19 loans for home improvements valued at $14,710 and 4 loans for discharge of second mortgages valued at $4,490. The Australian Postal Credit Union (Qld) Ltd during the period from 1st June 1969 to the end of February 1970 granted 38 loans for the purchase of land valued at $52,600, 68 loans valued at $93,360 for the purchase of homes and the discharge of second mortgages, 57 loans for home renovations valued at $67,750 and 103 loans valued at $47,635 for house improvements. The University of Queensland (TALSA) Credit Union Ltd since its inception in 1967 has approved 19 loans for land valued at $23,410. As well, 23 loans valued at $22,150 were provided for assistance with house purchase and 72 loans were made available for home renovations and improvements valued at $44,840. The maximum loan presently being advanced by credit unions in Queensland is $2,000. Once again they do not qualify. 
I think it would be a biased person indeed who would say that the credit union movement is not playing an important part in assisting in the purchase of homes and in saving for homes. One of the important points about the credit union movement is that there is personal contact with its members. There is close affinity between members because they meet in their daily work. Because of this close contact members are encouraged to budget to meet their annual expenses. They are taught and encouraged to save to meet the ordinary expenses that face everyone. I think this point is very important in this day and age when many people are encouraged to live today and pay tomorrow. People are encouraged to travel today and pay tomorrow; to buy today and pay tomorrow. They find out that they are paying not only tomorrow but the next day, the next day and the next day ad infinitum. Many people have to save to purchase furnishings and electrical goods for their homes. I would go so far as to say that nobody can tell me the price of a particular electrical appliance. The advertisements do not set out the real price to the buyer. They state that so much is allowed for a trade-in or that it is marked up or down. We see all sorts of prices. The price depends these days on how good a talker you are, on whom you know or what you have to trade-in. The price depends on what sort of deal you can get and there is no telling what it will be. 
The credit union movement has assisted people to purchase household items. Sometimes it purchases such items in bulk. It encourages people to save for them and indemnifies them. It does play an important part mainly because of the close affinity of its members. Members are allowed loans on a personal basis and nothing more. Personal integrity is taken into account in arranging the loans. Recognition is paid to the applicant's ability to pay but in most cases no security is sought. I say again that the credit union movement is playing an important part in assisting young home buyers, yet it is excluded from this legislation by what the honourable member for Reid aptly described as a thimble and pea trick. 
What amendments have been made to the Act over the years? In 1964 the honourable member for Hughes moved various amendments to the Bill which was debated at that time. I recall that one of the amendments related to the eligibility of widows to this grant and the eligibility of people buying partly constructed homes or who were living in temporary accommodation. That was 6 years ago. Many people have been excluded from the benefit of this legislation because our amendments of that occasion were not approved by the Parliament. They were opposed vigorously by people such as the honourable member for Bennelong. Now those same people welcome such suggestions. They recognise that a widow or widower should be eligible. They recognise that people separated because of divorce should be eligible in certain instances. People who have acquired temporary accommodation which is not considered as being a permanent home also should be recognised. 
I suggest that this legislation should give assistance to people who are endeavouring to raise finance to purchase a home that is 20 years of age or more. They find it easier, however, to arrange finance for the purchase of a new home. Some of these old homes are very well constructed. Some of them are in the developed area in the cities; some are large homes which suit young couples with families. However finance is not available to them and the amount of deposit required is too large. I have known instances of this myself which I have referred to the responsible Minister. I know of young couples who have purchased existing houses in order to acquire the land. But because such a purchase did not conform to the legislation at that particular time their application for a homes savings grant were not recognised as being for the first home purchased by them and they were not eligible. I produced building permits and the like from local authorities but the result was still the same. 
I welcome this Bilk because it includes so many of the amendments put forward over the last 6 years by the Australian Labor Party. The suggestions are now recognised by the Government as having merit. Because of this the Opposition must support the Bill. However we do not believe that it goes far enough and I support the amendments put forward by the honourable member for Reid. 
The honourable member for Bennelong and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  referred to the acquisition of land by the Government. If it were not for the fact that the Commonwealth did acquire land in certain areas for the building of war service homes the cost of such homes would be far greater today. The Commonwealth over the years has acquired land for war service homes. The attitude of both those honourable members reminds me of a debate in this House about 20 years ago during which one honourable member said that there was plenty of land around Canberra on which war service homes could be constructed. He asked why this was not done. It was said then that he was not very far sighted. Today we can look back and say that it was not a bad idea. The Northern Territory also was mentioned in this respect. I think that if the Commonwealth Government had taken that advice, even though it was offered in a satirical fashion, it would have meant that the cost of homes today to individual persons would have been much less. The States are able to acquire land and they have kept prices down in areas where they have done so. 
There is one further point that I would like to make, that is, that about 23% of Australia's housing finance is provided by the Commonwealth under legislation introduced by the Chifley Labor Government in the immediate post-war period. The intention was to provide housing by making loans available to low income earners over a period of 53 years at an interest of 3% and by meeting three-fifths of the rental rebate in cases where the rental was more than one-fifth of the income of the person concerned. Therefore the record of the Australian Labor Party in the housing field stands unchanged in this respect. The first Labor Government in Queensland, the Ryan Government, introduced a measure to provide dwellings for workers on a similar basis of long term loans. The Commonwealth provides 23% of housing finance in Australia but I know many disappointed housing loan applicants. I know of many people who are purchasing homes from State housing commissions or housing authorities who are debarred from receiving this homes savings grant. 
Several speakers in the debate have referred to the necessity for a uniform building code. They have pointed out that there are about 800 different regulations covering building in Australia.  Sir Robert  Jennings, for whose company I once worked, has estimated that this multiplicity of building regulations adds $600 to the cost of a home or $600m a year to the cost of housing in Australia. In the last 10 years the average cost of land has increased by 182% and the average cost of building a house has increased by 68%. The Government has acknowledged that building costs have increased. The Government has further contributed to the rise in building costs by increasing the bank interest rate by  i%,  which will be reflected in an increased interest rate on loans for housing. Under this Government interest rates have increased so considerably that the interest component of repayments on housing loans exceeds the component for principal, whereas when Labor was in office the interest component represented only a small percentage in the total repayment. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  asked what Labor proposed. The 2% rebate promised in his policy speech last year by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would have provided a benefit of about $250 a year to young people on low incomes. Their interest payments would have been reduced by about $250 a year. This rebate would have been applied to persons in accordance not with their wealth or the wealth of their parents but in accordance with their needs. The honourable member for Bennelong need have no fear that the Labor Party will not continue to assist people who are deserving of a home. I am confident that a Labor government would make further progressive improvements in this legislation. I support the amendment moved so ably by the honourable member for Reid. 
1 address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. What restrictions have been placed on the release of 50c coins? Who was responsible for the release of these coins into circ.nation? Is there any reason for a shortage of these coins? Will the Prime Minister inquire to determine whether more 50c coins can be put into circulation? 
The Australian Labor Party once again puts forward a case for the inclusion of the credit union movement in this scheme. Many people heard His Excellency the Governor-General say at the opening of this session of Parliament: 
My Government will introduce legislation immediately to amend the Home Savings Grant Act ... to liberalise other aspects of this scheme and to provide that, if a credit union meets the conditions which will be required, savings deposited with that credit union will qualify for the purposes of home savings grants. 
This is the very thing about which we are speaking. I think it is summed up very aptly by the journal of the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association of the Commonwealth Public Service when it headlined an article: 
Stop the cheering. Few, if any, Credit Societies will qualify for Savings Grant Scheme. 
This is what happened. Conditions have been applied which make it impossible without amending State legislation in the case of New South Wales and virtually impossible because of the financial positions of the credit unions in the other States for them to fulfill the conditions which require loans of up to $7,000. I am not arguing against that, but there is a requirement that 20% of their deposits be used for housing and not less than $50,000 per year is to be provided by way of housing loans. I am quite certain that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who is representing in this place the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  interprets the term 'by way of housing loans' to mean not loans for assistance in the purchase of homes which credit unions are providing at present but complete loans for the purchase of homes. 
There has been in this Government right from the very inception of this scheme a prejudice against the credit union movement. In the first instance, a time was given for the withdrawal of savings from credit unions by prescribing a period within which savings in credit unions would be recognised; after that date the savings had to be transferred to a home savings account. Credit unions have had a number of deputations to the various Ministers for Housing. They believed that they were getting somewhere but now they have been shown that once again the gate has been closed to them by the application of conditions which will mean - and quite possibly this is the intention - a restriction of membership of a credit union movement to persons over 35 years of age to whom all these conditions in the home savings scheme mean nothing at all. While we have this continuing prejudice against the credit union movement the Opposition would like to see further conferences with the Minister and the Department of Housing by the credit union movement to allow it to make some progress towards meeting the conditions. Credit unions are doing quite a lot in the way of bridging finance and this has been stated time and again during this debate. 
Last night I mentioned how the credit union movement or some major credit unions in Queensland have been assisting. In the ABC Queensland Credit Union, for instance, 27% of loans for assistance for housing represented 37.2% of the value of all advances. In the Clerks Credit Union 18.2% of loans for assistance for housing represented 27% of the value of all advances. Percentage wise credit unions are qualifying but not to the extent of the $7,000 or the minimum amount of $50,000 per year. These are impossible conditions that are being placed upon the credit union movement, which has done much to reduce the cost of the purchase of a home, firstly, by making available bridging finance at reasonable interest and reasonable rates of repayment, and secondly, by assisting in the purchase of the things that make a house a home - furnishings, home improvements, extensions and the like. But there still seems to be prejudice and this will, if carried to the ultimate, mean that persons under 35 years of age are being discouraged by this Government from joining credit unions because when the time comes to purchase a home their savings will not be recognised. 
I support the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  It is not the type of amendment that we would make to the Bill if we were the Government, but we are restricted, as was quite rightly pointed out by the honourable member initially when addressing himself to this clause, and it is impossible for us to change the allocation. The amendment that we have put forward was the only method by which we could ask the Minister and the Government to do something worthwhile to recognise that the credit union movement is encouraging young people to save for their homes. This is said to be the initial purpose of this legislation - to encourage young people to save for the purchase of homes and to put money aside for this purpose. Various principals of the credit union movement are going to organisations such as guilds, churches and lodges to encourage their members to save more. These people have a closer affinity than have people who are saving with banks. The credit union movement is doing a commendable job in training young people to save and encouraging others who have not previously had an opportunity to save to do so now. It is doing a commendable job in the provision of finance to help in the purchase of a home. By placing these restrictions on the credit union movement so that savings with a credit union will not be recognised, the Government is restricting membership of the credit union movement to persons of 35 years and over. 
Let me put the record straight for the benefit of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  The date '31st December 1967' was the latest date allowed in the amending legislation passed early in 1967, following the general election of 1966, for designating accounts as homes savings accounts. People were allowed to change their accounts up till 31st December 1967 to bring them within the scope of the legislation. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  pointed out how under this Government the cost of a home had increased so markedly that the only people in a position to buy land and build a home are those who belong to the 2 wage society. Unless both husband and wife work a young couple has no chance of purchasing a home in the areas described by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Perth. 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  who is at the table, did not introduce this legislation, but since he is acting in this place at the moment for the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  perhaps he will answer a query that I have concerning the Bill. Proposed section 26a relates to the withdrawal of approval of a credit union. It provides that a credit union shall, within 14 days after the date of service of the notice of withdrawal, give a prescribed notice to every person who was a member of the credit union at that date or who had applied for membership on or before that date. The credit union must be sure that it does not advertise that it is a credit union for purposes of the homes savings grant. What will happen to persons who have savings in a credit union whose approval is withdrawn? Have they a prescribed time in which to withdraw their money from the credit union and deposit it in a homes savings account? I take it that savings with the credit union while it was approved under this legislation will be recognised but there is nothing in the Bill to indicate that such savings will be recognised after approval has been withdrawn. This is an important matter because a person who wishes lo apply for a grant does not want to make a withdrawal from his bank account until he has signed a contract. 1 have told young couples not to make withdrawals until they sign a contract. It is the savings at the prescribed date that count. What time is allowed a member of a credit union to withdraw his savings from the credit union and deposit them in an approved account? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of the Captain James Cook Memorial Jet in Lake Burley Griffin. 
What is the annual allocation for the running cost and maintenanceof the Jet. 
Does the cost include an auxiliary plant and spare parts. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the value of Australia's exports to (a) Canada, (b) France, (c) Italy, (d) Japan, (e) The Netherlands, (f) the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, (g) the United Kingdom, (h) the United States of America, and (i) West Germany in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the value of imports from each of these countries during the same years. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are many persons who seek to vote for a candidate in another State often deprived of a vote because the Divisional Electoral Office is many miles away. 
If so, will he consider allowing the Assistant Returning Officers at major polling booths power to receive interstate absentee votes during the hours of polling. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise: Has he received representations from registered breeders of budgerigars - I tell honourable members who are laughing that this is an important matter - to allow registered breeders of budgerigars to export a number of domestically raised birds. Does the Minister intend to apply to this request the principle advocated yesterday by the Acting Prime Minister in regard to another species peculiar to Australia, the merino ram - that is, that the breeders are the people to make the decision, not this Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he received any report of the success, or otherwise, of the methods of dispersement of oil escaping from the tanker Oceanic Grandeur. 
ls he satisfied that the detergents used and the methods of application would be capable of dealing with any further oil spills or leakages. 
Has he been notified of any effect the oil and/or the detergent has had on bird or marine life, including cultured pearl banks. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What quantities of pig meat in carcass and processed form were imported into Australia over the past 2 years. 
What were the countries of origin. 
What was the value of these imports. 
asked the Minister for Im migration, upon notice: 
What was the (a) male and (b) female migrant intake of each of the 6 Australian Slates over the past 5 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I ask: Has the Minister had an opportunity to study the report presented early this year to the Canadian House of Commons by a government mandated commission inquiring into the costs of agricultural equipment? If he has, and having regard to the commission's findings and the complaints regularly being made at primary producers meetings throughout Australia about the costs of spares, the selling of spares as package units on the one hand and the substantial gifts being offered to purchasers of new machinery on the other hand, will he cause a similar inquiry to be held in Australia to ascertain whether Australian primary producers are being taken for a ride? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say in what States persons involved in civil defence work during an emergency are covered by workers' compensation. 
Is he also able to say whether any guarantees are given of compensation for loss or repairs to vehicles, craft, etc., involved in civil defence work during an emergency. 
1 second the amendment. 
The measure before the House which was announced by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on 15th February 1970 is to ratify the Commonwealth's allocation of a grant of $ 12.8m to the Queensland Government for what is known as the Bundaberg Irrigation Works. The case for this scheme was carefully prepared and strongly supported by the Bundaberg and 
District Irrigation Committee which comprised 6 local authorities in the area, 6 sugar mill areas which were represented by both the millers and suppliers and other interested organisations. Besides a substantial initial contribution of $20,000 to the cost of preparation of this case the local canegrowers have also been prominent in the promotion of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. If there is any cause for disappointment it is that in agreeing to make a contribution to the scheme the Commonwealth has rejected the initial request for a scheme totalling $47m which would also include the Isis and Bingera areas which are, perhaps, the areas most devastated by drought and which even today, despite the good early season, look like facing a crushing in which the mills will not reach their peaks. 
These 2 areas are not included in the scheme for which the Commonwealth has made a contribution of $ 12.8m which, with the State's contribution, will ensure that the Bundaberg-Kolan regional scheme will finance, first of all, a barrage on the Burnett River, a barrage on the Kolan River, the Woongarra distribution system, the Gooburrum distribution system, the Abbotsford system, the Giveloa system and the Monduran Dam with a pipeline to the Monduran Dam for which the Commonwealth will make a contribution of $8m as part of the $12.8m. This figure will also include a 19-mile pipeline from the Monduran Dam to Gin Gin with a feed line to the Burnett River via Sheep Station Creek near Gin Gin. I am pleased to follow 2 prominent men who have made a substantial contribution towards development in Australia in recent times. I refer to the previous Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and his chief and most able adviser, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Both these men have very forcibly put forward the case on the economics of this scheme. The honourable member for Dawson has moved the following amendment: 
Thai all words after 'That' be omitted wilh a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
The technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses earned out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House'. 
I do not think that the amendment is an unreasonable one. There has been some opposition, particularly from honourable members of the Liberal Party, to the proposition which was defended so ably by not only the honourable member for Dawson but also the honourable member for Farrer. I believe it is right that when J similar schemes are put forward such ini formation should be available to the House I whether  it be on irrigation schemes or other national projects, lt is essential. 1 do not think it is beyond The capability or capacity of the Commonwealth Government departments to produce such information and make it available to honourable members. 
The Queensland Government, through the Irrigation and Water Supply Commission and the Department of Primary Industries, has already put forward a comprehensive report on the cost analysis of this scheme as compared with other schemes. One of the points which they have made - I say this without any malice at all even though the city of Bundaberg is within my electorate - is that both the departments and the Queensland Government have indicated that the economics of this scheme are far superior to those of the Nogoa, now the Fairbairn Dam scheme. They have agreed on this point. If it is within the capacity of the Queensland Government to put forward a case such as this and make it available to members of the public who are interested and to members of Parliament, I see no reason whatsoever why the Commonwealth should not make available this report. I am quite convinced in my own mind of the economics of this scheme which will bring stability to an existing industry in an already established area. I disagree with the view of the honourable member for Farrer that this might lead to all sorts of arguments to the effect that this point should be taken, this evaluation should or should not have been made, and so on. 
The Queensland Government has seen fit to put forward this case, lt has made recommendations to the Commonwealth. The initial recommendation was in favour of the Nogoa scheme in preference to the Kolan scheme as it was then known. In doing this the Queensland Government may have had its own reasons but the point is that the Commonwealth acted on the advice of the 
Queensland Government in this measure. The advice could quite easily have been given on political grounds. Whether or not this action is taken on political grounds 1 welcome it. My only regret is thai it does nol incorporate the entire scheme; it means only a partial contribution by the Commonwealth at this stage to the scheme, lt is expected thai the work on the Monduran Dam will commence in 1972-73 and will lake some 3 years to complete. The channelling works will entail quite a considerable amount of work and it is quite feasible that the money that has been allocated by the Commonwealth and the Slate of Queensland in this instance will not be spent within the 5-year period. Within the next quinquennium perhaps we can expect to see further assistance to the complete scheme which has as its purpose the stabilisation of an existing industry in an established area. 
The mills and the facilities are there and the people are experienced in the production of sugar. I point out that the Bundaberg area is the third largest sugar producing area in Queensland producing some 16% of the entire harvest and servicing 6 mill areas. This scheme will provide additional irrigation from surface water to existing assignments from which a number of farms are now irrigating, and will release a number of farms which are now irrigating from an overloaded underground supply. Ii has been clearly staled - and investigations have proved it to be correct - that retention of surface water increases the underground supplies which have been used to such great advantage in the Bundaberg area in recent times. 1. refer to an early manual put out in 1965 by the Committee which points out that in the Fairymead mill area in 1953 there were only 12 bores irrigating cane. In 1965 the number was 312. The Qunaba mill area irrigates 95% of its farms from underground, particularly in the plantation area. This irrigation system was established many years ago. In the Millaquin area some 69% of the farms are irrigated. I would point out that Millaquin is the only sugar mill area in Queensland where the cane is grown, where it is milled, where it is refined for distribution and sale through retailers in Queensland and where the important by-product, the famous Bundaberg rum, is also distilled. 
So we have had over the years, because of the recurring dry spells, an extension to these areas of the irrigation system from the underground supplies The city of Bundaberg itself draws from these supplies. But in recent years, because these supplies have not been built up and because there have been extensive demands placed on the water within that basin, there has been a drop in the water level of some bores by as much as 30 feet. This means an additional cost in the lifting of the water by pumping, particularly in the coastal areas. There have been cases on some coastal farms where the level of the water within the basin has been be:ow sea level. There have been some cases of slight salt water intrusion. Experts repeatedly advised placing a restriction on the use of the water. They feared that, if there was a salt water intrusion into this basin, as could quite easily happen, because the fresh water level within the basin dropped below sea level, it would take many years for it to be excluded. What has been regarded up till now as a bounteous supply of fresh water will be no more. By the provision of water storage this underground system will be built up. It will be built up for 2 reasons. Not only will the surface water accumulation build up the underground system, but it will also mean that a number of farms which are at present irrigated from bores will be able to draw from surface water if it is circulated through the various channels. It will reserve the use of these underground supplies to some 277 farms which have a gross area of 25,000 acres of cane. Th;s will raise the efficiency of sugar production, harvesting and processing through the elimination of shortfalls. 
For honourable members to really appreciate this point, it should be pointed out that the production and the rates of payment in the sugar industry - some people might call it a socialised industry - are within Government control. The Queensland Government acquires the whole sugar crop, not only in Queensland but also in the cane growing areas of the northern rivers district of New South Wales. Each farmer is required to plant a certain acreage and produce a certain amount of sugar. In a good season in these areas he has an ovc; supply of cane. He has to plant an area which he would believe would produce a certain amount of cane which would contribute towards the mill's peak. He is obliged to produce this amount. If he does not produce it or if he does not continue to produce it, he is in danger of losing his assignment. The assignments are based in many cases on what was at that time a living area. 
There is no doubt at all that the sugar industry in Queensland has contributed considerably to closer settlement. People are able to make a living from smaller areas than they do elsewhere. In recent years, because of poor prices on the overseas market and because of the expansion which the industry underwent within a few short years, the position has been that many of these living areas have had to be increased. Farmers have had to purchase neighbouring farms to continue in the industry. But the point 1 wish to make is that the provision of this water will bring about stability in the industry, if a farmer has contracted or has undertaken to produce a certain amount of cane he knows that he can do it with irrigation with some certainty. With irrigation he can produce a certain amount of cane in a certain area. Without irrigation, in a poor season he might not be able to produce enough cane. In other times he might have cane left standing in the field. That means that he is obliged to undertake additional work and pant an area which is somewhere in between and which he believes will produce :e somewhere near what is required of him by the Sugar Board. Irrigation would a!so reduce e the annual production area required, as I said before, to produce existing peaks to an average of 52% of the assigned area as against an average of 65% at pres-'nt. It will also eliminate industry losses which have exceeded S50m. This is more than the S47m which the Commonwealth was asked to provide. This loss could occur with a recurrence of a prolonged drought cycle such as that from 1899 to 1910. 
Much investigation and tabulation of figures has gone into the calculation of rainfall. Although we talk of average rainfalls,' this is not always an indication. I wouk point out that in the year 1968 the average rainfall was good but most of that rain fell in the month of January :n the latter part of the year when (he cane needed rain for increased production the rain was not there. The average rainfall, even though it is a guide, is not always an infallible guide. So we have a range from underproduction to overproduction. We have shortfalls in the mill peaks, which have amounted to considerable sums. It is estimated that in the 6 mill areas the annual mill peak of 341,000 tons of sugar, which is 16% of the State peak, would be valued at $30,350,000. This was based on the 1969 predictable price of $89 a ton. Only last Friday it was indicated that the average price of the No. 1 pool sugar was $101.59 a ton. The total value of sugar from the 6 mill areas of Bundaberg was $2 1.31m. This was a drop of $11. 6m on the 1968 season and it was brought about by the continuing drought conditions. 
This measure will further assist in sugar production. It will further ass st other sugar producing centres in Australia, because the northern rivers district of New South Wales is included with Queensland, by the elimination of drastic shortfalls in exports which could provide opportunities for other countries to take over our established contracts with overseas countries. We have the International Sugar Agreement which guarantees a certain price, but we also have fixed contracts for the sale of sugar to the United Kingdom, to the United States of America, and even to some extent at the world price to Japan. If we are unable to fulfil those orders we will lose the contracts to other countries. This is not in the best interests of the industry. The scheme will also assist by ensuring that plantings in flush years do not produce sugar substantially in excess of the requirements for the home and overseas markets and leave the farmer with cane standing in the field at the end of the crush ;ng. The scheme will bring stability to an industry which is worth about $50m a year to the city of Bundaberg, an area that has been established for many years as a sugar growing centre. 
The scheme will bring about a guaranteed production. That does not mean that more sugar will be produced. The farmer, knowing that the water is there, can produce a certain amount of sugar. He will not plant more cane than is necessary because the cost of planting is considerable and is increasing all the time. I make that point to illustrate the difference between irrigation and dry land farming. For an assigned area of 49 acres under dry land farming the return from the cane less the harvesting costs amounts to $7,000. Under irrigation, for 56 acres under the same management, the value of the cane less harvesting costs amounts to $12,900. After deducting the additional annual cost of irrigation of $2,400 there is a net margin in favour of irrigation of over $3,000. The honourable member for Farrer, the previous Minister for National Development, quite rightly pointed out that the Commonwealth could, possibly by grants, make money available to the States and allow the States to decide what they wanted to do with it. On the other hand the money could be made available for certain projects. By making money available for projects such as this the Commonwealth is also a beneficiary. Without this scheme there will be a loss of income not only to the farmers but also to the millers and the people who work in the mills. The Commonwealth would lose the income tax that would be paid by those people and the sales tax on motor vehicles, fuel and other items necessary for the work involved in the mills. Sugar mills have to be modernised and repairs have to be carried out. The sugar industry as a whole has kept abreast of technological advances in regard to the types of cane to be grown in certain areas. One or two mills have not been able to do this but gradually they are realising that this is what they have to do. 
The sugar industry is one in which all sections play their part in ensuring that the maximum economy is maintained in the production of sugar. The Commonwealth Government is making these funds available although the amount is only part of the Queensland Government's request for the scheme which would cost $47m altogether. The Queensland Government has already made available $8m towards this project. The people involved were prepared to spend considerable amounts of money 'o promote the scheme and put forward its economics. If the scheme is not implemented it will be a sorry day not only for the city of Bundaberg but also for the sugar industry in Queensland. I regret that the scheme as a whole is not being supported. ] understand that the Queensland Government put forward the proposal for the complete scheme which incorporated not only the proposal that is to be carried out by the Commonwealth and the State but also the irrigation of the fsis and Bingera areas. I am only guessing in this respect, but increased costs may be involved in the pumping and raising of the water for the irrigation of the Isis area. 
I travelled through the Isis canefields yesterday and 1 know that unless some such scheme is forthcoming - it cannot be financed from State funds - there will be a complete failure of the sugar industry in the Isis district, an area noted for its sugar production. The area is wholly and solely dependent upon sugar and has in the past proved that it is capable of producing sugar in reasonable years. These are unreasonable years, but the availability of water will mean that there is not an overproduction of sugar. By not over-producing the industry will be able to contain the cost of the scheme. The various farmers will guarantee that there will be no overproduction. A number of failures of the sugar crop have occurred in the Isis area. 1 see the only solution to that as the acceptance of the main scheme. 
I do not know why the Government rejected the scheme. Discussions took place between representatives of the Queensland Department of Primary Industries and the Irrigation and Water Supply Commission, the Commissioner,  Mr Haigh,  who is we'll respected, and the various Commonwealth departments. I understand that the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry undertook a survey of the situation. I do not know the reasons for the rejection of the Isis section of the scheme and why the Commonwealth did not agree to contribute with the State towards that scheme. I must support the amendment put forward by my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson. 
 I will be very brief. I agree with the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who stated earlier that a certain amount of information is contained in the explanatory memorandum provided to honourable members, though certainly it is not to any extent comparable with the report prepared by departments of the Queensland Government. My understanding of the project and my support for the amendment is based on the assumption that the Queensland Government put forward a request for the entire scheme. 1 ask the Minister briefly: Did the State reduce its request for assistance to that which is provided in the Bill? Did the State not request the funds for the entire scheme? At what stage and by whose decision and following what evaluation was the Isis section of the scheme dropped? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Did reports over the weekend of 18th-&lt;19tb. April of the sending by the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Administration of police reinforcements to quell fights at the copper mining project on Bougainville refer to happenings on and before 11th April involving some 22 men or to later happenings. 
What action is taken by (a) the Administration and (b) contracting companies regarding the screening of Australian workers entering the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On what routes do Fokker Friendship aircraft carry both first and tourist class passengers. 
What is the name of the operating company in each instance. 
What is the maximum passenger loading of first class passengers used by each company for each type of Fokker Friendship aircraft. 
What fares are charged for first and tourist class in each instance where a Fokker Friendship service operates. 
1 refer the Minister for Labour and National Service to a reported joint study by the Australian Clothing Manufacturers Council and his Department of proposals for Commonwealth incentives to attract more married women into the clothing industry. Will he ask the Department to consider the costs of any such proposal against a scheme to decentralise clothing manufacturing in provincial and country areas, where there is an available source of unmarried female labour at present seeking employment and costing the Commonwealth unemployment benefits and other administrative costs? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are the health requirements which he introduced some months ago relating to cheese imported into Australia, and which were temporarily suspended, now being applied. 
Is Australian cheese for export required to be pasteurised. 
Does Australia impose a pasteurisation requirement on imported cheese. 
Have the reasons given at the time of imposing the limitations .changed during the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What are the maximum loans available from each State housing authority. 
What is the minimum deposit required by each State authority for the purchase of a new home. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Have workers in the building industry filed a claim for recognition of their eligibility for long service leave. 
Will he consider introducing legislation to grant long service leave to building workers and other federal award casual workers, particularly in the Territories under Commonwealth control in Australia. 
Will he confer with his State counterparts with a view to establishing a national fund for reserving credits for long service leave payments for these workers. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Wit) he consider striking a postage stamp commemorating the 25th anniversary of Rural Youth in Australia. 
The Budget, which was introduced a week ago. gave the Government an opportunity to honour its pledges at the last general election, it also gave the Government an opportunity to restore taxation justice and social justice. In fact, the Budget gave the Government an opportunity to do just those things which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  condemned the Government for failing to do in the amendment he moved tonight to the Budget. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Budget:   . . fails to meet the real needs nf the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to school, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases tax and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature.  ] am sure that this is also the sentiment of those people who felt so strongly about the Budget that they took time off work today to discuss it and let the people who stand behind the Government know their real feelings. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  touched on the subject of taxation reform. Previous speakers had congratulated the Government on a 10% reduction in taxation. However. I believe that what the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised and what was understood by the people of Australia to be the Prime Minister's promise not quite 12 months ago was taxation reform and not just a percentage drop in taxation. The matters that the honourable member for Isaacs spoke of deserve the consideration of the Treasurer and of the Cabinet. 1 am not alone in my thinking on this. I have received letters from white collar workers, from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, from people in business, from school teachers - from people in what I would term the low and middle income group - stating that it was their belief that taxation reform was to be introduced. But what was introduced? People in the low low income group earning $2,000 a year or less do not receive an increase in wages equivalent to the 50c a week that was granted to the pensioners. Tn other words, a person has to earn over $2,200 a year to benefit from a reduction in income tax in excess of $26 a year which is the equivalent of 50c a week. Therefore, I do not believe, and  I am sure the majority of the Australian people do not believe that the Ligation reform which was promised by the Prime Minister has been honoured. 
In contrast to this the Australian Labor Party through its 1969 policy speech did promise taxation reform - a review of all sections of taxpayers. The Australian Labor Party said that it would review the tax schedules and make a progressive system of tax apply in practice as well as principle. I note that one of the newspapers congratulated one of its favourite sons from Queensland for being one of the Government supporters - they gave him sole credit for this - who in the Party room had the reduction on income tax halted at $30,000. Looking through the taxation statistics provided by the Commissioner for Taxation - the latest one is for 1968-69 - we find that the highest number of taxpayers over that, period was in the actual income group of $4,000 to $4,999. This group amounted to 475,252 taxpayers. This was the greatest number of laxpayers in any group. But when we get up to the group receiving $30,000 and higher we find that the number of people who receive that amount total only 3,127. Therefore, in one group we have 3, J 27 taxpayers and in the other we have 475,252. 
I can see no reason for congratulating the honourable member for succeeding in stopping the concession at $30,000. The total income of the 3,127 taxpayers earning $30,000 or in excess of that amount at the time of the report was $153,717,000. [ would submit that this group is well able to take care of itself. As the honourable member for Isaacs has suggested, this group is made up of taxpayers who are in a position to take advantage of all the concessions that are available. I am reminded that the taxation schedule has not been altered since 1954-55, except for a 2.5% levy and the raising of the lower limits for taxation. Yet the average income since 1954-55 and 1969-70 has risen by 100% and the average award wage rate by 70%. 
In 1954-55 the percentage of income required to pay one's income tax was equivalent to 5 weeks pay. Until the present concessions were introduced this figure had increased to 9.2 weeks. This is not evenly spaced between the income groups. Those on the minimum adult male wage payable under Federal awards currently need to work for 6.2 weeks to pay the income tax on a full year's wages. This can be compared to 3.5 weeks required for a basic wage earner in 1954-55. As this scale goes up the concessions are more in favour of people on higher incomes who are best able to take advantage of them. I am reminded that one of the concessions that has been made is the increase of the amount claimable for insurance premiums. This has been increased to $1,200, which it would be impossible for a man who receives an income of $2,200 a year, and also many others, to pay. 
I submit that the Government, through the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  has not honoured the election promise of the Prime Minister to review tax scales and to give relief to the lower and middle income groups. The Budget has been described as a give and take Budget. I believe that it has taken more than it has given. It certainly has done so for the people in the lower income group. While some concessions have been made in income tax a further load has been imposed by an increase in indirect taxation. For a number of years now I, and I am sure other honourable members, have received representations from the cosmetic and toiletry manufacturers concerning sales tax justice. They have pointed out the anomalies that exist in sales tax and what a luxury it is for women to appear beautiful and for husbands to pay for their wives' cosmetics at the current rate of taxation. The cosmetic and toiletry manufacturers were seeking a reduction in the luxury tax from 25% to 15%. Such was not to be their lot. 
The Budget could be said to favour dogs rather than babies. The honourable member for Isaacs spoke about babies. I do not think the Treasurer gave any consideration to them when it is noted that dog powder is free of sales tax but baby powder is now subject to 271% sales tax. Hair nets are free of sales tax but hair spray which women use attracts sales tax of 271%. Women's gloves are free from sales tax but hand lotion, which they may use instead of gloves, attracts 27* % sales tax. There is a sales tax on luxury items such as motor cars. The honourable member for Isaacs said that people would benefit by the concessions if they did not buy some of these luxury items. He said that some of these things could be left alone, yet we find that this group comprises items ranging from contraceptives to motor cars, from artificial flowers to photographic equipment, and includes electrical equipment and television sets. Many of these things are considered to be ordinary household items. 
In addition people who own a motor car will have to pay the increased excise of 3c on each gallon of motor spirit. This is estimated to increase the Commonwealth's revenue by $61,100,000 this year and by $71,200,000 in a full year. I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the representative of a rural electorate, to the discussions that took place here about 12 months ago when the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement was introduced. The Opposition put forward the proposition, which has been part of its policy for quite a time, that the whole of the excise duty on petroleum products should be used for the maintenance of roads. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the problems facing local authorities in the provision of roads and in the repayment of public money borrowed to maintain the roads for use by motorists from whom the Commonwealth obtains its revenue. Each year the Commonwealth hands back a small amount to the States for distribution amongst the local authorities. It was pointed out on that occasion by a number of speakers from this side of the House that, had there been no increase in the rate of excise duty on petroleum products, the Commonwealth would still finish well ahead on the amount it was making available to the States. The proposed 3c a gallon increase will make sure that it will be so much further ahead. 
The assistance to be given to primary industry is not in proportion to what is needed. The Budget once again provides a stop-gap form of assistance that goes part of the way and leads people in many cases further into debt and into more trouble by not giving them any real sight of a solution to their problems. In the beginning of his Budget Speech the Treasurer said that the amount proposed did indicate a growth in non-farm incomes. He stressed that farm incomes had dropped over the past 12 months and gave all sorts of reasons for this. 1 believe that the policies that have been followed by the Government over the years have not in any way assisted to relieve the problems facing rural industry today. The problem is not just one of drought. The honourable member for Isaacs said that he did not know what the Opposition's rural policy was. He failed to mention the Government policy, as did the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. He dismissed the whole rural crisis in 10 words. The Government knows and the country knows that Labor's programme in the rural sphere is clear and definite. We have announced our 11 -point wool reform programme; we have spelt out our wheat policy for the present and the future; we have repeated time and again our basic proposals to help local government. Against this the Government has brought the country people to their knees. It has abandoned the farmer, the wool grower, the country business man particularly, and the worker. The Government alone is responsible for the depression in half the countryside, and in the other half it ignores the drought and its hardships. 
I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the assistance that is being given on this occasion to secondary industry. It will receive $272m, which is an increase of $81m on last year's expenditure. The assistance to be given to rural industry amounting to $215m is an increase of $77m from last year, and that includes the large amount of $30m to the wool industry - an industry which is worth approximately $800m a year to Australia. 
This amount is supposed to solve the problems of the people connected with the rural industry and to carry them over for another year. This has been the hope of the Government over the last 20 years. It says: 'Give them enough to keep them going. Just keep them going a little bit longer. The weather might break. Some of the pensioners might fall by the wayside. Some of them might even win the lottery and go off the pension.' I hope some of them have the opportunity to do that. The Budget that was brought down a week ago does not offer any great solution to the problems that are before us. T believe that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  stated the position clearly when he said: 'What is the use of all this prosperity, of this increase in the gross national product, if part of the community is being denied a share of it?' 
I conclude on this note: Australia may now look to the Australian Labor Party for urgent attention to pensions, health, housing, education and the reconstruction of primary industries, all of which are more depressed than ever after 20 years of government by the Liberal Party encouraged and maintained by the continuous support of the Country Party minority. I suggest that it would be in the public interest for the Prime Minister to accept the challenge issued by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What regulations control the discharge of ballast from oil tankers in 
Australian waters; and 
international waters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What was the average cost of a War Service home in each State capital city during the current financial year. 
How many applications for War Service Homes loans were received up to the end of March 1970. 
How many of these have been approved to this date. 
How many applications were received last year to additional loans for home improvement. 
How many applicants were successful. 
What are the approximate maximum and minimum loans sought for the purpose of home improvement. 
asked the Minister for Soda. Services, upon notice: 
How many (a) male adults, (b) male juniors, (c) female ad: .Its and (d) female juniors in the Bundaberg, Gympie, and Maryborough regional districts at 31 May 1970 had been drawing unemployment benefit for (i) 3 months and over, (ii) 6 months and over, (iii) 9 months and over and (iv) twelve months and over. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Do the views on a 35-hour week recently expressed by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and other Ministers indicate a conviction within the Government Parties that a longer working week would be beneficial to Australia? If so, does the Prime Minister propose advocating an extension of working hours during the Senate election campaign? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. We have heard a number of estimates given of the cost of the recent national wage increases. Can the Treasurer indicate to the House what additional revenue will be available to the Commonwealth, by way of increased income taxation resulting from the national wage increases for the year ended June 1971 and/or for a full year? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Whereas: 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of education allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Will he consider striking a postage stamp commemorating the 25th anniversary of Rural Youth in Australia. 
-! join with my colleagues in supporting the. measure before the House. It ratifies the agreement between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Government to regulate the production and marketing of sugar within the Commonwealth for a 5-year period from 1st July 1969. This Bill was presented to the Parliament on 4th March last year. I join with my colleague in saying that much water has passed under the bridge since then. However, we still find ourselves in very little disagreement over it. It is a historical fact that the Australian Labor Party has supported these sugar measures since the first of such agreements was drawn up between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government. They bring a measure of stability to an industry which is vital to the eastern coast of Queensland. 
The first such agreement was drawn up in September 1915 by the T. J. Ryan Government of Queensland and the Fisher Commonwealth Government. It is worth recalling some of the views expressed by people at that time who were the forebears of those now in government. Through the process of evolution even socialistic schemes have the approval of some of the people sitting opposite. We might wonder what the position will be in another 30 years. Some of the things that have been described as socialistic by them might gain their approval. Tn 30 years' time perhaps even people like the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  will see some good in schemes such as that covering the Australian Wool Commission. It is worth pointing out that the then Leader of the Opposition,  Sir Joseph  Cook, claimed that the first of these sugar measures was introduced to carry out the Labor Party's programme of socialism. To a great extent the sugar industry is a socialised industry because production is controlled and there is a guaranteed price for local consumption. There is also a guaranteed price in export areas. Sugar was being imported at the time of the original agreement. New agreements were negotiated from time to time and there was  a  guaranteed price for  a  considerable portion of the export market. This situation continued. 
As the demand for sugar rose both at home and abroad and more markets were found the industry expanded. In my electorate of Wide Bay there are 7 sugar mills and therefore the people I represent have a definite interest in this Agreement. The engineering works in the cities of Bundaberg and Maryborough have played an important part in producing machinery for the harvesting of sugar cane and the milling of sugar. They have contributed to our export income by exporting machines. Until a short time ago the industry was labour intensive, but the situation has changed completely with the advent of mechanisation. Now the cane cutter is a figure of the past. In former years many of the towns in the sugar areas had a high influx of workers during the crushing season, but now many have a very small boom period. However, this has brought a measure of stability to them. 
T find myself in some disagreement with the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  over his reference to the criticism about expansion in the sugar industry. I believe that the Queensland Government should have taken heed of the cane growers who suggested that the expansion should be developed over a number of years instead of immediately. The immediate expansion eventually threw the industry into a certain amount of chaos from which it has not completely recovered. 
I agree that the industry has been able to provide our fruit canning industry with a certain amount of assistance. It is pleasing to note that on this occasion the amount of rebate will be increased to $15 a ton. This rebate is allowed by the Fruit Industry Concession Committee to processors of Australian fruit for home consumpion as well as export. 
I said before that this industry is an example to other industries. It has set a pattern for them to follow in the field of controlled production and controlled returns. These agreements have contributed to a large extent to the stability within the industry which has been recognised worldwide for its efforts to contain costs and improve production by the development of new species and new methods in order to get higher yields per acre and higher results from milling. lt is interesting to dwell on the fact that this industry is controlled. There are controlled production and controlled returns for the home market and for the export market. Wages within the industry are controlled. 1 can assure the honourable member for Maranoa that decisions on wages are not in the hands of the Australian Labor Party. They will be in the hands of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, lt will make decisions on the prosperity of the industry at the time as it has done in the past on the ability of the industry to pay wages. It is the machinery side which is not controlled. I earnestly suggest to honourable members on the Government side that they give some thought to the question of controlling the cost of spare parts and fertilisers, because it is these things which are adding to the cost to the producers in an industry that has played a large part in establishing the European population on the east coast of Australia. I think all honourable members are aware that in the early days it was thought that this was not an industry in which Europeans could take part. It was thought that they could nol cultivate and harvest sugar. It has been proved adequately that they can do this work, so much so that the services of many Queenslanders engaged in various sections of the industry have been sought by developing countries to give assistance to those countries and to show them our methods of production so that they might benefit from our experiences. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill, firstly as a Queenslander, and secondly, because as an Australian 1 know the value of the sugar industry to this nation. 
The two matters that I wish to raise this evening concern social services. 1 am not a member who takes much- advantage of adjournment debates, but I feel that these matters deserve some airing in the Parliament. I join with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who. yesterday protested about the exclusion of children over the age of 16 years, who are undergoing full time study, as dependants of recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. I have had referred to me. the case of my own brother who recently underwent a major operation which Will . result in his being off work for a lengthy period. He applied for sickness benefits but when he was notified of the amount that he was to receive he thought that some mistake had been made. He mentioned this to the social service worker at Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney. She said that she had a long list of similar cases. 
It may be thought that the  non-payment of a benefit for one child for a few weeks would not mean much of a loss to a family if sickness is not retcurring. but with the extension of the school leaving age it is not impossible for two or more children over 16 years of age in one family to be receiving full-time education, yet if sickness overtakes that family such students are not taken into account in determining the amount of benefit the family should receive. Children of this age are virtually adults. They eat as much as adults and it costs as much to clothe them as adults, but they are not recognised as dependants and this imposes a double penalty on the family because in calculating the amount of benefit payable in respect of children, those children' above .16 years of age are not considered. The benefit is paid on the basis of S2.50 a- week for the first child under 16 years of age and S3. 50 for other children under 16 years of age. 
I commend the Government's action in extending long term sickness benefits as in the case of the invalid pension, but I emphasise that children over 16 years of age who are receiving a full-time education are not recognised as dependants by the Department of Social Services. The number of beneficiaries involved and the amount of money that would be paid to them if such children were recognised as dependants would not wreck the economy of the nation. A sympathetic review of this situation would be of considerable value to those families whose breadwinners have been forced through accident or illness to cease work. 
The second matter concerns the payment of unemployment benefits. Several cases were brought to my notice towards the end of last year concerning employees who, because of a shortage of work offering, were asked to work 1, 2 or 3 days a week. As a result they are not unemployed but are paid only for the time they work. I have referred these cases to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The men are members of the Amalgamated Meat Industry Employees Union and they are employed at abattoirs. For one reason or another - either because of drought or because of rain following a drought when animals are not being made available for purchase by the buyers of meat works - these men are being stood down. The men do not receive notice a week or two beforehand that they will not be required to work. They may be at work and it may not be until 4 o'clock in the afternoon that they are advised that they will not be wanted for work the next day. 
When these men found that employment was not available for them for the remainder of a week they registered for unemployment benefits. Their cases were considered and rejected. I referred them to the Director of Social Services in Queensland and later to the Minister for Social Services. He has informed me that the reason for the rejection of their applications was that it is an essential requirement for the grant of unemployment benefit that the applicant be unemployed and, further, that the applicant must be prepared to accept employment. These men have been prepared to accept employment provided it is of a short-term nature. Some of these men have worked for almost 20 years with the one firm and if they accepted another job it would mean the termination of their employment with the loss of entitlements that have accumulated during their service with the abattoirs. They are being penalised. 1 agree with the Minister that there is a requirement that an applicant for unemployment benefits must be unemployed and that his unemployment must not be due to his being a direct participant in a strike. He must be capable of working and willing to undertake suitable work. He must have taken reasonable steps to get work and must have registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Furthermore, there is a 7-day waiting period. 
If these men were not actually working they would be entitled to unemployment benefits. A man with a wife and 5 children, with' a permissible income of S6 a week, would be entitled to a benefit of S39.50 a week, but if that man works for one or two days at the meat works his wages would still be less than S39.50. I ask the Minister for Social Services to consider whether or not, depending on the number of days a man works, the unemployment benefit payable to him might not be sufficient to increase his income to the amount of benefit to which he would have been entitled had he been unemployed. These cases are not dissimilar to the position of waterside workers who, before the payment of appearance money, were required to report as available for work when a ship came into port or when other work was available for them. Waterside workers are required to make themselves available. Employees at abattoirs also are required to make themselves available and, because of the entitlements that they have accumulated during their years of service, they naturally want to make themselves available provided their term of unemployment is not lengthy. But the period of short working weeks can extend, and in this instance it has extended up to 10 weeks and they are suffering loss. 
Whilst I agree with the Minister that the Act must be complied with I believe this situation requires examination. The employer does not lose because the men are available and he has a hold over them. The Department of Social Services does not lose because it refuses to recognise them as unemployed at present, and rightly so. But the men and their families are certainly losing because of their refusal to take another job- which would mean termination of their present employment and loss of accumulated entitlements. I have spoken to other honourable members and I believe that there are other instances which would warrant an investigation. I hope that I can prevail upon the Minister for Social Services to give sympathetic consideration to the two matters that I have raised. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer him to the fall in employment in the shipbuilding industry. When does he expect to announce the Australian Shipbuilding Board's approval or acceptance of further shipbuilding tenders? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation in his capacity as the Minister in this chamber representing the Minister for Air. I ask: To what extent is the Australian Government responsible for costs connected with the coming visit to Australia of F111 aircraft belonging to the United States Air Force? What resemblance is there between these aircraft and the aircraft which Australia ordered, as an urgent defence necessity, in 1963? Will the Royal Australian Air Force receive the 1963 version or a later and improved model of the aircraft when delivery eventually is made? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Mow many homes savings grants were paid on houses where the finance for purchase was provided from State funds by each Slate Housing Authority during each of the years 1966 to 1970 and what was the amount of these grants in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What orders have been placed with Australian shipyards for the construction of ships for the Australian National Line and other shipowners since 1st July 1969. 
For whom are the ships being built.  notice were circulated: 
What is the (a) type, (b) overall length, (c) tonnage and  (&lt;i)  expected delivery date for each ship. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say how often the retail price of half-gallon cans of ice cream has been increased in the past 3 years. 
What has been the total rise in the retail price. 
Has there been any corresponding incresae in the price paid to dairy farmers supplying the basic ingredientsto the ice cream manufacturers. 
(Quorum formed)- I congratulate the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  on having made his maiden speech. I do not think it matters from which side of the House an honourable member comes - a maiden speech is always a matter of concern. I speak for all honourable members on the Opposition side when I say that we wish the honourable member well. However, I assure him that his next speech may not be so peaceful. As member for the electorate of Murray he follows a very distinguished Australian. If his record is half as good as the man he follows I think he will be well pleased with it. The Bill before the House is concerned with rural reconstruction. It is a pity that the time for debate has been shortened. Not all honourable members who have placed their names on the Whips notice board will be able to participate in the debate on this important matter. 
I do not think that any honourable member from either side of the House has denied that there is a need for some action in the rural community. Today, very few sections of primary industry enjoy anywhere near the affluence which is enjoyed by some sections of the community. Not all sections of the community are affluent, of course, and recipients of social services such as age pensions certainly are not. Nevertheless honourable members on both sides of this House recognise that there is a need for something to be done for rural industry. Even Government members who supported the measure have criticised it and, in many cases, condemned it with faint praise. The honourable member for Murray felt that not sufficient was being done. If he felt that further legislation was necessary, naturally he would not be very pleased with this measure. 
Government members seem to be optimistic that this Bill does not represent the end of the assistance available to the rural section of the community. We on this side of the House believe that this measure does not go far enough. It is for this reason that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has moved, among other things, that the agreement between the States and the Commonwealth be amended to make provision for more detailed criteria on eligibility. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that in order to obtain any assistance an applicant must be unable to obtain finance to carry on and must be in danger of losing his property or other assets. This would mean that, to qualify for assistance, an applicant would need to have used up all available sources of finance. The Minister states further that, if this is the case, advances may be made for periods of up to 20 years and that the money may be advanced under the scheme with a minimum interest rate of 4 per cent. Many of the details as to how this assistance is to be made available have been left to the States. 
The scheme as outlined by the Minister and the Schedules to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill do not state the method by which loans will be made available or whether guarantees will be required. We are not told whether a loan will be on a. first mortgage basis or whether it will be used in many cases merely to follow up and to assist in the payment of loans that have been advanced from various banking sources, including private banks, or by stock and station agents and the like. Undoubtedly such institutions would take a first mortgage on any asset held by the farmers. 
In questioning the merits of this scheme, I am following up and quoting the views of an eminent constituent of mine. At least, he is eminent in the Country Party. 1 refer to the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who has claimed that the assistance under this scheme is not sufficient. The Liberal Minister for Lands in Victoria said, on 23rd May, that the plan was sure to fail because it did not go far enough. He said that of 600 applications for assistance under the scheme 78 had been processed but only 2 applicants were eligible. I feel that many people who believe that this scheme will offer some assistance to them are doomed to disappointment. 
This scheme will provide $100m over 4 years for rural reconstruction. When we talk of this amount, it seems a lot of money. When we consider that the economic crisis in the rural community extends over the 6 States of the Commonwealth and that this money must be divided among a number of people in those States, it is a long way from being sufficient. I note that, in the European Economic Community, assistance is being offered on a somewhat similar basis. That assistance is expected to total approximately ยฃStg8,000m a year. That scheme is not altogether similar to the scheme under consideration here because it goes much further in providing assistance to the rural community. It assists in some cases in the repayment of debts and in others in the acquisition of land to produce more viable farms. Assistance is provided where a farmer will be able to make a go of his farm if he is able to obtain more land or if he is able to obtain more stock. 
Paragraph 20 of the Schedule to the States Grant (Rural Reconstruction) Bill provides:  (1.) Each State agrees te operate the scheme in such a way that, taking into account its experience with other schemes of rural assistance and the normal expectations as to factors that affect farmers' incomes that are current at the date of this agreement, the amounts received by  the Authority in the  course  of the operation of the Scheme could be reasonably expected to equal the payments of principal and interest which the State is required to make to the Commonwealth under this agreement. 
The State is required to repay to the Commonwealth $75m of the sum made available under the scheme. There are many points on which the scheme is vague. Possibly in different States it will operate in different ways. Honourable members have referred to the servicing of debts and the preferences to be allotted to farmers' debts. Are a farmer's debts to be serviced in such a way that his banker, commission agent or stock and station agent to whom he has already mortgaged his property is to receive preference before he makes repayment to the State? The Minister has referred to a loan of SI. 000 to people who are no longer able to carry on. If I am correct, the Minister referred to interest at 6i per cent. 
I thank the Minister for that information. A loan of $1,000 may be made for an unspecified time to enable a farmer and his family to carry on. I think it is important to remember that in many cases not only a farmer is involved but also members of his family who have grown up and are being helped by him. The position today is reverting to that of pre-war days when in many instances members of a farmer's family were forced to work on the property for low wages, or no wages whatsoever, to maintain its viability. Recently I have known of cases of farmers who settled land about 40 years ago and have sought to place their sons on the properties. In the last couple of years the land has been repossessed and farmers who have spent a lifetime developing their properties have lost them. They have gone on to a pension and in some cases have incurred debts - the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will bear me out - amounting to $20,000 or $30,000 because they guaranteed their sons when they took over the properties. 
I do not think that the scheme goes far enough. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  raised the point that in countries belonging to the European Economic Community when farmers are displaced assistance is given and re-training programmes have been introduced. The Minister hinted that a re-training scheme will be introduced by the Government at some future date. I do not know whether he meant that it will be introduced in the very near future. The programme will retrain farmers who are unable to continue on their land. They will be given assistance or re-trained. That is all very well, but a man in his 50s finds it very difficult to obtain a job. Men aged about 42 or 43 years have complained to me that they have found it very hard to obtain a position. This difficulty is recognised in the European Economic Community and farmers who are displaced are given assistance. I suggest to the Minister that if a re-  training scheme is introduced, some heed should be taken of the reference by the honourable member for Bradfield to servicemen. I do not know whether a section of the community could be singled out. 
My colleague the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  referred to redundancy on the waterfront. The honourable member for Bradfield pointed out how a serviceman who has served in certain areas within a theatre of war is eligible at 60 years, an earlier age than normal, to obtain a pension. These matters also should be considered. Having promised not to take the full time allotted to me, I do not intend to do so. I apologise if I have caused any inconvenience by not starting my speech, after the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  had concluded, in the few minutes remaining before 11.30 p.m. I thought that perhaps honourable members would like to have time to appreciate the matters mentioned by the honourable member for Murray before their supper and that, having enjoyed a light supper, they might also enjoy the nicer things, such as good wine, a cigar, or my speech. Having referred to these matters, I hope that the Minister, and the honourable members opposite who have expressed some doubts about this scheme, will join with us and support the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  With few exceptions, honourable members have acknowledged that the scheme has inadequacies, and that they would like to see a wider field covered by the funds available and an improved method of administration by the States. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physical and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer the Minister to the Tariff Board inquiry into the Australian shipbuilding industry which was completed in December 1969. Having in mind that the future of a number of Australian shipyards hangs on the recommendations contained in the Board's report - 18 months is a long time to be hanging -I ask: When will the Minister table or release the report of the Tariff Board? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did Commonwealth investigators, during April 1970, inquire into fraudulent misuse of funds made available by the Commonwealth Government to the Queensland Government as freight rebates on fodder for drought relief. 
If so, were these investigations carried out at the request of the Queensland Government. 
Did these investigations extend into the South Burnett district of Queensland. 
Was any misuse of funds revealed. 
Have any prosecutions resulted from these , or associated inquiries. 
If so, were the prosecutions made by the Queensland Government or the Commonwealth . Government. 
Has the Queensland Government requested a  further investigation into . the illegal claiming of rebates for drought relief fodder. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When is it proposed to upgrade the international terminal at Brisbane Airport in keeping with other capital city standards. 
What is the present weekly inward and outward movement of international flights at Brisbane Airport 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What quantities of Duboisia (corkwood), leaf were exported during the last 3 years? 
What were the principal countries to which this leaf was exported. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to  a  report on page 1 of Retail World of January 1971 regarding a dispute between a chain store operator  Mr Hank  Brink of Sydney, and Bonds-Wear Pty Ltd? 
If so, is he able to say whether the action taken by Bonds-Wear Pty Ltd, in refusing to supply goods unless they are sold at a recommended price, is in the nature of a restrictive trade practice? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer the Minister to the questions asked of him this week and last by the honourable member for Wentworth regarding the employment of married women. Do the former Minister for Labour and National Service and the former Treasurer reflect the attitudes of the Liberal and Country Parties of acceptance and encouragement of a 2-wage economy where both husband and wife must have separate incomes to survive the difficulties caused by rising living costs? Does his Government consider that the minimum wage is sufficient to maintain a man, his wife and 2 children? 
 I join with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who has condemned the Government on its Budget in these words: 
The House condemns the Budget because (a)  lt  breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for  1971-72 a  fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security'. 
This Government has held office by the use at election time of a number of issues which have divided the people. When governments are elected on emotional issues one finds that those governments do not always govern in the best interests of the people. Emotional issues on which governments achieve electoral success may mean something 1 week but in 6 months time may mean nothing at all. When this is the case, I can say only that the electors certainly are getting the Government that they do not deserve. It is often said that electors get the government that they deserve. 
If the Australian people are to be divided, this Budget has sought to divide them even more. Personal income tax has been increased by $164m. In 1969, Prime Minister Gorton promised taxation reform and in the 1970-71 Budget he did grant an across the board reduction in personal taxation. There was no review of taxation, but he might have been working on it too for all we on this side of the House know. Certainly, there has not been any review of personal income tax as it relates to the middle and lower income groups. I believe this is what was understood to be the electoral promise made in 1969 by the then Leader of the Liberal Party, Prime Minister Gorton. This review is long overdue. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on the presentation of the 1971-72 Budget condemned wage increases - he has done this before - and his Budget Speech contained a veiled threat to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commonwealth Treasury always receives its pound of flesh from any wage increases that are granted. It is expected that this year there will be an average increase of 13 per cent in incomes - so much for the anti-inflationary measures which are spoken of by Government members as being contained in this Budget. The increase of 13 per cent compares with an increase of 11.2 per cent last year. 
The former Prime Minister was regarded by members on both sides of the House as a true Australian. The man who now wears the shoes of Prime Minister and who in March of this year was speaking of the rights of Parliament, before a month had passed was causing Bills to be rushed through this House and the Parliament to sit at all hours and into the morning so that he might close down the Parliament as soon as possible. He neglected the rights of Parliament further a fortnight ago when he was hell bent on disregarding the views of Parliament on the subject of the appointment of Assistant Ministers. However, the Prime Minister was forced because of dissension within the ranks of his Party to refer this matter to the Parliament. 
For the second successive time a Budget has introduced increases in the customs and excise duty on petroleum. Time is limited to speakers in the Budget debate, but I wish to make some passing reference to Commonwealth employees Who are directly victims of the Budget. I refer to mail contractors who every 3 years tender to provide mail services which in some cases extend from 60 miles to 110 miles a day for 6 days of the week. They tender for these contracts at about 12c a mile. In some cases they can satisfactorily tender at this rate because the mail service is an ancillary service to either a cream run or a carrying service which covers the same route. But with the phasing out of the dairying industry in parts of Queensland we have seen a decline in the number of cream carriers. So mail deliveries which were previously made on 5 days or 6 days of the week have now been reduced to 3 days or 4 days a week. These people contract on the basis of a 3-year term. Last year's Budget increased the sales tax on tyres and spare parts. Also, excise and customs duty rose last year. The price of petrol is increased by 2c in this financial year. 
The owners of school buses operating on similar routes for the Department of Education have rise and fall clauses in their contracts. This means that if the running costs become excessive the proprietors can ask for a review of their contracts. Depending on the case that they are able to present, consideration is given to granting an increase without them having to face open tender. However, the only redress the mail contractors have is to give 3 months notice of the cancellation of their contracts and then to engage in public tender. This process of cancellation is not always practicable because of the outlay on their vehicles and the arrangements they have made on the understanding that they would be carrying out a service for 3 years. The increased costs have been placed upon them by the very people for whom they have contracted to work. I have not been successful in persuading the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to revise the form of the contracts and include in them a rise and fall clause. 
I believe that these people are truly victims of the Budget. Also, I believe that I would be failing the people I represent if I did not mention what I consider to be the most depressed area of the economy. I refer to the rural sector. People in this sector are bedevilled by bad weather, low prices and poor government. For 20 years they have followed Micawber-like the policies of the Country Party and the Liberals. There are many who agree wholeheartedly with the policies of the Country Party but who are so deluded that they are now circulating Country Party branches and Country Party members asking that their parliamentary representatives adhere to party policy and party doctrines and not administer on a day to day basis, as at present, with policies which are greatly influenced by the Liberal metropolitan policies rather than with any understanding of rural problems. 
One sees the drift of population from country towns and the closing down of family stores that for many decades had been the sheet anchor of the rural community. Those stores gave credit to customers at a time when no bank would do so - at a time when the banks' doors were closed to them. However, such of these stores that remain are no longer able to extend credit. Indeed, they are no longer able to carry on in competition with cash and carry stores. Therefore they are folding up, and their employees and other people in the rural community are fading away and drifting to the cities. How could the Prime Minister talk tonight of an affluent society when for the first time in decades wives have to work alongside their husbands on farms in order to keep the property together because the husbands cannot afford to employ labour or producers have had to leave farms because the income from the properties will not support them. They have to seek other jobs. 
For many of these people the rural reconstruction scheme has come too late. The processing of applications has taken too long. The guaranteed price of 36c per lb for wool will be of great assistance to some but of little assistance to the many. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  clearly stated that IS per cent of Australia's 92,000 wool growers produce 55 per cent . of the annual clip. Of this number 12,000 major growers will share $33m of the $60m while 88,000 small growers will get $27m. So the big grower will get, on an average, $2,750, and the small grower will receive $337. 
Much has been said about the freezing of wages and prices. I suggest very sincerely that there should be a freeze of 6 months duration or longer on rural debt repayments to enable people in rural areas to be given some breathing time in order to re-establish themselves and to know that they can do this during this period. If they have no income during this period I suggest that they would very rightly be eligible for unemployment relief or special social services benefits. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the past Treasurer have defended interest rate increases as anti-inflationary measures. But Canada and West Germany and last week Britain decided that a reduced interest rate would help to curb inflation. Which economists are right? One group says that we should reduce interest rates to curb inflation. However, in Australia economists say that if we want to stop spending we should raise the interest rate. All I know is that if we want to have development it will not be brought about by people with invested money which brings them in regular dividends as they sit on their verandahs waiting for the cheques to come in. We will not obtain development in this way. Development will be brought about by people who are prepared to back their own capabilities and abilities with their own capital or money borrowed at reasonable rates of interest. I suggest very sincerely that these high interest rates are one of the causes of the inflation that is rampant in the community. Perhaps another cause - and this was referred to by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  - is outside banking interests which have had a charmed existence during the lifetime of this Government. They have gone from one success to another and have had no curbs whatsoever placed upon them. They are outside the rules applying to regular banking institutions. They charge exorbitant rates of interest. Perhaps the money they supply is not available from regular banking sources. Nevertheless it is made available at a very high rate of interest and this again contributes towards inflation. 
In a period of 6 months this year we have had changes in the Government. I am indebted to a correspondent who wrote in the 'Canberra Times' on 16th August and who pointed out that with an undeclared war in Vietnam we have had in the last 6 months 3 Defence Ministers. Also, he points out that with major realignments in foreign affairs we have had no fewer than 3 Foreign Ministers. Also, although we have what the Government claims to be the world's best health scheme which for some reason or other needs major running repairs, we have had no fewer than 3 Ministers for Health at the helm within 6 months. With an unparalleled school crisis - and many members of this side oi' the House and even on the Government side have referred to the crisis in education that exists right across the nation - we have seen 3 Ministers for Education and Science in half a school year. With law and order becoming one of the issues of the day - indeed at one stage it was thought that it might be an election winner for this Government - and even though this matter is on the lips of supporters of the Government, we find that there have been no fewer than 3 Attorneys-General in the first half of 1971. The only thing that the people of Australia have to hope for is that Parliament might, in the very near future, choose another - the third - Prime Minister this year who will have some thought for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
In the short time left to me I would like to refer again to how this Government has existed by dividing the people. A means test is applied to the tapered means . test which was introduced by the Prime Minister when he was the Treasurer. Under the present scheme, which includes some of the largest pension increases for some time, we find that 148,000 age pensioners will not benefit from the pension rises; that 17,000 invalid pensioners will not benefit', and that 16.000 widow pensioners will not benefit. A total of 181,000 or 17 per cent of the total number of pensioners will not receive any increase in pension. About 27,000 will receive only partial benefit. Truly, it has been a further division amongst the ranks of the pensioners who have been divided into single pensioner and married pensioner, through the merged means test and the tapered means test and now further again into those who would qualify for the increases that are proposed and those who do not qualify or qualify only in part. 
I am pleased to note that mention has been made of the plight of local government. It has never been the policy of the Australian Labor Party to usurp the functions of local government, but what we and what most representatives of local government say is that there is an urgent need for a review of the ways of financing local government. At present the Commonwealth makes money available to the States. A few years ago a new Commonwealth Aid Roads 1 Agreement was introduced and large grants were mentioned as being made over a 5-year period to the States for road works. 1 feel that the States are not making sufficient of this money available to local government for road work but nevertheless the whole system of financing local government is in need of review. The method of rating on valuations from time to time does not hold good. It is not sufficient and pays no regard to the position, financially or otherwise, of the people concerned, the rate payers of the community, who are called upon more today than they were 10, 20 or 40 years ago to provide further amenities within the community. 
In the short time left to me I would like to comment upon the appointment of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines 
18918/71 -  R- 
and the Arts and Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities  (Mr Howson).  When the Australian Tourist Commission was formed it was, under the provisions of the Act, required to present a report to the Minister for Trade and Industry each year. I know that it is possible that some members of the Tourist Commission employed overseas may have some connection with the Department of Trade and Industry, but since then we have had appointed first in the Senate and now in this House a MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities, but the report of the Tourist Commission is still made available only to the Minister for Trade and Industry and is not made available to the Parliament. I found in the report made by the Public Accounts Committee after investigating the Tourist Commission far greater detail of the operations of the Commission than I found in the report which I obtained from the Parliamentary Library. I would like to see the Tourist Commission present its report to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, not to the Minister for Trade and Industry, and also to the Parliament so that the Parliament may act upon the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What proportion of the total cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme is expected to be borne by the patient charge? Does he know of any reason why the patient charge should be doubled from 50c to $1 rather than be increased by a smaller amount? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
When did the Government approve the extensions to Parliament House which are currently proceeding. 
Were the extensions on either side of the front of Parliament House and above the Chambers recommended by the National Capital Development Commission. 
If so, were recommendations and projections also made by the Commission in respect of the- 
future of the present Parliament House; 
siting of the new Parliament House; 
findings of the Committee appointed by Parliament to investigate the new Parliament House; and 
decisions of both Houses of Parliament on the site. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
Will annual reports of the Australian Tourist Commission continue to be furnished to the Minister for Trade and Industry or will he as the Minister responsible for tourism receive these reports and present them to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth aid funds being used to build a large luxury type tourist hotel at Bali? 
If so, what amount has been contributed by the Commonwealth, and over what period have the contributions been made? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the (a) total and (b) per capita consumption of (i) butter, (ii) margarine and (iii) milk in each State in each of the years 1960, 1965 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many ships are under construction or on order (a) in Australia and (b) overseas for (i) the Australian National Line and (ii) other Australian owners. 
What is the tonnage of each ship. 
Who are the builders of each ship. 
When was Government approval given for each order. 
What is the estimated date of completion in each case. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Why are student children of recipients of sickness or unemployment benefits no longer regarded as dependent when they reach the age of 16 years. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What vessels were added to the Register of Shipping for Papua New Guinea during the year 1970-71. 
What was the (a) type, (b) gross tonnage and (c) country, of origin in each case. 
I refer the Minister for Social Services to the non-recognition as dependants of student children over 16 years of age of recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits, which the Minister confirms has been the case since the original Act was passed in 1942. I ask the Minister: Has the school leaving age in any of the Australian States been raised since 1942? Does he agree that there are now many more children over 16 years of age who are full time students as compared with 1942? 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What vessels are currently on order for the Royal Australian Navy? 
Where are each of these vessels being built? 
What is the: 
estimated delivery date; and 
approximate cost of each vessel? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Stales for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I note that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in the report presented on his Department mentions that the amount of $308m spent by the Department last financial year was a record. The appropriation for this financial year for this Department exceeds that amount. I commend the Department for its encouragement and acceptance of an increased number of cadets who undertake university and technical studies at the expense of the Department. An overall increase of 91 occurs in the various categories. Cadets undergoing civil engineering training increased from 103 last year to 109 this year. The number for mechanical engineering training increased from 32 to 49 while in the electrical engineering field the increase is from 44 to 50. The number of cadet architects rises from 153 to 206 and the number of quantity surveyors increases from 32 to 41. The total number of cadets this year is 455 as against 364 last year. It is apparent that in this sector involving the training of young men, and women perhaps, the Department of Works has not suffered the cut backs that are apparent in other branches of the Public Service. 
However, a drop occurs in the number of apprentices being trained. The reduction is quite a considerable one. I find that 104 fewer apprentices will be trained. These apprentices would have become Australia's tradesman in the future. At the completion of apprenticeship, these people are needed for the work of the Department throughout Australia and in its Territories. In the Works Review' section of the report the point is made that a considerable amount of work was done not only in Australia but also in Papua New Guinea by the Department. 
Last year the Department of Works expended $39m on capital works for the Department of Civil Aviation together with a further S2,638m on repairs and maintenance for that Department. 
A number of honourable members have spoken already on the subject of airports. I wish to comment on present and future airports. I acknowledge the need for airport improvements following the introduction of new aircraft onto overseas and Australian internal routes. In the time that 1 have been a member of this Parliament I have noticed the reduction in flying time resulting from the use of the faster aircraft which have been introduced into service by Australia's domestic airlines. This has led to a growing demand for improved facilities at air terminals. In no way do I begrudge the people of Victoria the millions spent on developing Tullamarine Airport; nor do I begrudge the people of New South Wales and the others who use the Mascot airport complex the millions spent on the airport itself and in extending one runway into Botany Bay through the dredging and reclamation work that is going on. Apparently this work displeases some people living in the surrounding area. 
On my way to and from meetings of this Parliament I land twice at Brisbane Airport. I travel through Sydney Airport. When I behold the old quonset huts which make up the terminals at Brisbane Airport, I see that no amount of tizzying up can conceal the fact that, despite the good job of work done on them, the terminal buildings were constructed from these huts. The land on which they stand was taken over from the Brisbane Amateur Turf Club at Doomben. Part of the track on which a famous Queensland race - the Straight Six, or the Newmarket - used to be run was taken over at Doomben as land for these buildings. When we realise that the terminals were built over 26 years ago, I think it is past time for an international terminal improvement in keeping with the terminals at other Australian cities, particularly capital cities. The terminals are not even in keeping with the standard of terminals at airports in non-capital cities. 1 recall that not long after I entered this Parliament I was one of a deputation of Queensland members - very ecumenical - which was invited to speak to the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge, when he was Minister for Civil Aviation, about the improvements that should be made at the Brisbane Airport. We were promised that after the international terminal had been built at Perth and after the improvements had been carried out there Queensland was in line for consideration. That is almost 8 years ago. Perhaps in some respects TransAustralia Airlines was fortunate that there was a fire in its terminal at Brisbane. Now something will have to be done. Going further afield and travelling further north, the facilities at the airports at Maryborough and Bundaberg - the latter airport being called the Hinkler Airport - are the same as those that existed when Dragon Rapides and DC3s were servicing the area. It is true that both airports are serviced only by Fokker Friendships now. Nevertheless, these aircraft carry more passengers than did the DC3s. When there are 2 aircraft on the tarmac at the same time the facilities at both airports are sorely stretched. I suppose that in some ways we can be thankful that both places have a salubrious climate so that people can stand outside, although in the middle of the day it can become quite hot. There are no cold winds from which to shelter. Perhaps this and the demand at other places for improved facilities is the reason why improvements at these airports have been put off. 
Another matter which I wish to raise is that of landing facilities, particularly night landing facilities. For quite a time I have been stressing the need for better landing facilities at Maryborough. The power, which is supplied from the local regional electricity board, has failed on occasions. The non-directional landing beacons were not operating and the aircraft had to carry on to the next airport which, in most cases, unless the aircraft were redirected to Brisbane, would be Bundaberg another 72 miles further north. That would mean that the passengers would have a journey of Iยฃ hours to 2 hours by car to return to Maryborough. The Department of Civil Aviation installed transistorised non-directional beacons as an alternative. Once when there was a power failure there was the farcical situation of an aircraft coming in on its approach when the power cut off. The non-directional beacons were operating quite effectively on the transistorised batteries but the lights along the strip were out. The Department assured me that it took 15 minutes to light flares and place them along the strip. Apparently the pilot had more experience of the vagaries of the operation than I did. He decided that it was better to carry on to the next airport - at Bundaberg. Those passengers who were not proceeding north were faced with  a  car trip of 72 miles from Bundaberg - another trip of lยฝ to 2 hours, depending upon how heavy the foot of the driver was. 
The position is that there is no alternative power supply. All that is needed is the installation of a power plant that would take over immediately the town supply cut out. 1 do not think that this would involve a great deal of expenditure. Again I urge the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to give consideration to the installation of an alternative or emergency power plant at these airports. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
1 rise to support the amendment moved bv the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  This Bill has been described by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and other Government speakers in this debate as representing a change. But how much of a change does it represent? Since this measure was first publicised the Minister has adopted a stock phrase. He used it tonight when interjecting to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Minister said: 'You do not understand the Bill'. He said the same thing to the Queensland Minister for Housing,  Mr Max  Hodges. When  Mr Hodges  complained that the States were being let down, the Minister for Housing said: 'You do not understand the Bill'. 
To enable honourable members to understand the purpose of this Bill, I put it to the Minister that he should follow the example of his predecessors. When the first Minister for Housing in this Government, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who held the portfolio in 1964 and 1965, and the former Minister for Housing, Dame Annabelle Rankin, introduced measures of this nature, and particularly legislation associated with the home savings grants scheme, they issued explanatory memoranda which to some extent enabled people who were interested in a Bill to understand it a little better. My understanding is that the grant over 30 years represents the equivalent of the 1 per cent interest rebate over the 53 years duration of the loan. But, in effect, this does not take into account the actual amounts that might be sought by the States because the amounts of the grants in lieu of the 1 per cent rebate have been fixed for a 5- year period. 
The housing industry has always been considered as the barometer of the economy. We find a falling off in housing - not so much in the building trade generally - when the economy is tightened. The honourable member for Wentworth in 1965 stated that to dampen down housing because of undue expansion in other sectors of the economy could distort our ultimate priorities for survival. The same honourable member earlier this afternoon, when he followed the honourable member for Reid in this debate, criticised the Australian Labor Party policy which proposes a subsidy of 2 per cent in respect of interest repayments on a home for the first 10 years of those repayments. He said that people might keep up their interest repayments so that they might obtain this 2 per cent rebate and invest their money elsewhere. My knowledge of most people who are purchasing a home on a mortgage or who are buying a home from a State housing commission is that they have not money to re-invest or to speculate in this way. The honourable member for Wentworth stated that taxpayers' money cannot be used to support private people. But taxpayers' money is being used by way of this grant to support people and to provide them with cheaper housing. 
In his amendment, the honourable member for Reid has made special mention of lower income earners, pensioners, migrants, Aborigines, deserted wives and similar disadvantaged people. T do not think that any member of this House, irrespective of the type of electorate that he represents, has not at some stage or other come across people of this type. It is generally accepted that one-fifth of the earnings of a low wage earner is the maximum that he can spend on housing and still provide adequately for his family. We believe that the States have been able to live up to their responsibilities in this regard. What is happening in fixing the grant is that the States will not be encouraged to enter into higher borrowings to provide housing of this type because no encouragement is offered to them to increase their borrowings in this regard. When they received a ratio of reduction on the I par cent rebate on interest, there was encouragement but now no encouragement is given because the amount that is divided among the States is fixed for the period specified in the Bill. 
The Bill ako provides for a noncumulative grant of Si. 25m each year for the next 5 years, totalling S6.25m, which is to be used, to quote the Minister:  . . for the purpose of reducing rents for families in indigent circumstances'. I presume that the States have met the costs of these rebates from profits from the operations of housing authorities. My reason for believing this is to be found at page 60 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission 37th Report of 1970. Under the heading 'Housing Finance' the report states: 
Tasmania is the only State to bring into its budget the profit of its Housing Authority and the cost of rental rebates. In that Slate the cost of the rebates exceeds the profit arising from other aspects of the Homing Department's activities, in other States the profit is at least sufficient to cover the cost of any such concessions.  lt also stales: 
In support of its suggestion Tasmania claimed that 'in the standard States, mainly because of their large scale operations, the activities of the Housing authorities are profitable, even after making rental rebates'. It  also  claimed that profits retained and made available for  further  housing development represents interest free money available for the construction of houses which can be rented or sold on the same basis as houses built with interest bearing loans'. 
I ask the Minister: How was this profit made? Was it made by charging higher rentals than were necessary? Was the profit to meet the rental rebate made by increasing the prices of homes which were offered for sale? Will the fact that the States are now to receive $ 1.25m to meet the cost of providing a rental rebate instead of having to find the money from the profits of their own operations mean that there will be cheaper rental rates and will it mean that the overall price of homes will be reduced? 1 do not know the answer to those questions. I would like to believe that this will be so hut, if the usual trends are followed, T do not think it will be. 
Some mention has been made of wage rises affecting the cost of building houses. My colleague, the honourable member for Hughes, referred to increases in the wholesale prices of building materials. The Treasury Information Bulletin' of October 1971 states at page 19: 
The wholesale price index of materials used in house building increased by 1.1 per cent between June 1971 and September 1971. In the  12  months to September.  this  index rose by 7.3 per cent. The largest increases during this period  were  recorded in the. group indexes for steel products (11.0  per  cent), cement products (9.8 per cent) and concrete mix, cement and sand (8.5 per cent) 
In view of . those rising costs one might wonder why no arrangement has been made for an alteration in the rebates that will be going to the States by way of grants. lt has been said that the States are all agreeable to this legislation. . The fact is that a second meeting had to be called of the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing. We have heard pious utterances from supporters of the Government of Commonwealth-State co-operation instead of federalism. It should be remembered that, as the Commonwealth holds the purse strings, the State Ministers for Housing had no more option than did the wheat growers or dairy farmers who were told to reduce their production. They had to accept the Commonwealth's demand. It was simply a matter of no money being made available if no co-operation was given. If is very easy to obtain co-operation when one is holding the purse strings. Irrespective of the thoughts of the various Ministers for Housing in the States and their opposition to the Commonwealth's proposal they had a job to do and the Commonwealth was holding out on them. It was therefore very easy for the Commonwealth to obtain the co-operation of the States. I suppose many of the members of the Australian Country Party will agree with me that the best way to get a poddy calf to drink its milk is to let it go without it until it is hungry. A similar situation applied in regard to the negotiations beween the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing. 
I can readily understand why certain Ministers for Housing are happy about the percentage of the grant they will receive. I can equally understand why others, like  Mr Hodges  of Queensland, have expressed disappointment. The percentage of the grant is fixed for 5 years. So too, though on a different ratio, is the percentage of the grant for rental rebate. Neither makes any allowance for variations in the demand for housing or increases in costs in the States. The demands for housing in Western Australia and South Australia have tapered off to some degree. When a Labor government is restored to office in Queensland next year there will be an unprecedented demand in that State for Government housing. I would prefer to see the percentage varied over a shorter period than 5 years. 
The second part of the amendment which the honourable member for Reid has proposed requests the Commonwealth Government lo provide the States with adequate funds to enable them to acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by way of rental or sale. Anyone who has had any experience of trying to purchase a home will admit that it is very hard to obtain a loan for homes which are IS years of age or older. Parents of families which have grown up and left their homes to live elsewhere or to get married, often find themselves in a home which is larger than they need and which requires a considerable amount of upkeep. As they get older and find i'. getting more difficult to look after their homes so they often move into smaller ones. These larger homes are generally within the inner city areas. Because of their location they are usually serviced and do not require, as the honourable member for Hughes pointed out, channelling and kerbing and all the other service facilities because they are already there. But anyone who is interested in purchasing one of these homes will find out as soon as he goes to a bank or any other lending authority that as soon as the age of the home is mentioned he is asked immediately for a substantial deposit. That immediately puts off most young couples, particularly those in their twenties. 
More people are now marrying in their twenties. People are marrying at a much younger age. These people have not usually got the deposit which is necessary to buy the type of home to which I have been referring, although it is often cheaper than other homes which are available to them. Perhaps such a home will need some repairs as time goes on. Nevertheless these people are young enough to face up to this problem. This type of home would suit them better because it is larger. These homes are what one would regard as family homes. Lots of young people are interested not in a little 2-bedroom flat or home unit but in larger homes in serviced areas. Many of them would be able to buy these homes if they were available on a lower deposit or if such a body as a State housing authority were to buy them and make them available to these young people on the same conditions as these bodies make available homes which they themselves construct. If this were done the local authorities would not be faced with the task of having to provide services on the fringes of the cities. One also would not find dead hearts in the cities because the inner areas would be alive with people. These people would not be crowded into high rise home units. They would be young families who are prepared, because of their work and because the type of home suits them, to live in homes in these areas. However, these young people are at the moment debarred for financial reasons from acquiring these homes. I believe that, in particular, the second proposal put forward by the honourable member for Reid is worthy of the attention of the Government. I have much pleasure in supporting the Opposition's amendment. 
1 second the amendment. The. Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in his second reading speech on 4th November said: 
Purchasers of subsidised homes built by the States with funds provided under the Agreement are excluded from the payment of a homes savings grant because they already receive a significant benefit from the interest concession and to ensure as far as possible that these homes are reserved for those with very small means and on low incomes. This housing is made available below its true economic cost for social reasons, and there arc long waiting lists for the homes largely because they are relatively so cheap, lt would be wrong lo inflate these lists and disadvantage the most needy elements of the community. 
The Minister's statements were true under the terms of the old States Grants (Housing) Act, but it provided for an interest concession which no longer applies under the measure just passed by this House. On 13th September, before the Minister made his second reading speech from which I quoted, I placed on the notice paper the following question: 
Are purchasers of  homes built by  State housing authorities, with money provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, ineligible for a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act because these homes are subsidised? 
Will these people be eligible for the grant under the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement? 
Will the States be making this housing finance available at a reduced interest rate? 
If anyone has qualifications for the mushroom club the Minister for Housing certainly fills the bill. Tonight he has answered a question that I placed on notice on 13th September. He gives me all this jazz about assistance not being provided if the house is purchased with the assistance of a loan of money provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. He also states: 
Purchasers of subsidised homes built by the States with funds provided under the Agreement are excluded from the payment of a home savings grant because they already receive a significant benefit from the interest concession, and to ensure as far as possible that these homes are reserved for those wilh very small means and on low incomes. 
In part (3) of my question I asked: 
Will the States be making this housing finance available at a reduced interest rate. 
The Minister's reply states: 
and (3) The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement under which housing advances were made by the Commonwealth to the States at concessional interest rates is not being renewed. Instead, the Commonwealth will make direct grants to help the States continue to provide housing for lower income groups. For reasons explained in the Second Reading Speech on the Homes Savings Grant Bill 1971 purchasers of homes built by State housing authorities who receive the benefit of the new form of Commonwealth housing assistance will not be eligible for a home savings grant. 
Following the second reading speech of the Minister on 11th November I asked this question: 
Has the Government sought guarantees that interest charges on loans by, State Housing Authorities from Commonwealth funds will be less than normal savings bank rates. 
If not, where are the advantages of cheaper money to which he referred on 4lh November 1971. 
The Minister has not answered the question whether the States will be making the money available at the cheaper interest rates and, if they are not being made at the cheaper interest rates, whether they are to be made available at the bond rates at which the States are borrowing the money from the Commonwealth, 7 per cent, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and which compares with the savings bank interest rate of 6 1/4 per cent. I cannot see where the people who are borrowing at 7 per cent have an advantage over those borrowings at  6b  per cent. Unless some assurance is given by the States that they are making the money available al a lower interest rate I believe that the people who are building with Commonwealth funds are entitled to the benefit of the homes savings grant. 
We have 2 schemes operating in Queensland. The first is the old workers' dwellings scheme that has operated since the days of the T. J. Ryan Government in 1915 with money provided from the State's funds. The other scheme is also operated by the State housing authority with funds made available by the Commonwealth. This might answer the question of my colleague the honourable member for Corio (Mi Scholes) as to why the Queensland State borrowings are so low in proportion to the population. The people who borrow through the Queensland Housing Commission and are given money provided from Commonwealth funds are not eligible for a homes savings grant, yet the people who borrow from the authority money which is provided from State funds are eligible for the grant. Both schemes are operated by the same authority. I cannot see how this can operate unless there is a concession in the interest rates charged by the States. The Minister has given no indication whatsoever that this concession in interest rates is being provided by the States. 
If the Minister has information on this I would ask him not to keep us in the dark any longer and let us know what the position is. Surely he has had some discussion with the State Housing Ministers on whether they are going to make it available at savings bank interest or at the bond rate, the rate at which they are being charged for their loan funds. We do not want to be members of the mushroom club even if there are honourable members opposite who are, so I ask the Minister: Please make this information available. 
asked  the  - Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Are purchasers of homes  built by State housing authorities, with money provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, ineligible, for a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act because, these .homes are subsidised. 
Will these people be eligible for the grant under the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
Will the States be making this housing finance available at a reduced interest rate 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What quantities of  fish  were imported into Australia in each of the last 3 years? 
What were the main exporting countries? 
What quantities of the imported  fish  were canned? 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, ernestly request our Government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What precautions are taken to ensure a minimum octane rating in petrol sold as (a) standard or (b) premium grade. 
Do Commonwealth officers make checks of petrol at the point of sale to the public to guard against dilution and selling of standard grade as premium grade, similar to checks made of spirits and beer in hotels. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Was the . allowance payable to repatriation pensioners who use their own transport to obtain treatment reduced from 11.4c to 6c a mile; if so, why? 
If the position is as stated, did the Repatriation Commission reduce the allowance on its own initiative after considering evidence that travel costs are reducing or was the reduction part of the Government's economy drive to reduce expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
When does he expect to present to the Parliament the Tariff Board Report on Shipbuilding? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Has the Government sought guarantees that interest charges on loans by Slate Housing Authorities from Commonwealth funds be less than normal savings bank rates. 
If nol, where arc the advantages of cheaper money to which he referred on 4th November 1971. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he received recommendations for the compulsory rust-proofing of mo. or vehicles. 
Has he investigated the Ziebart process for rust-proofing as used in the United Kingdom. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it correct that countries like the United States of America, West Germany, the United Kingdom, France and others who give aid to distressed countries have painted on the sides of their ships in large lettering, for example, 'United States of America Relief Ship'? Does he consider that Australian aid carried by a Japanese ship with a Japanese crew and flying the Japanese flag will be interpreted as Japanese aid by those who witness the arrival of the ship and the discharge of the cargo in Bangla Desh? Is Australia's image in Bangla Desh not more important than the money saved in freight in such an operation? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is any restriction placed on the export of spray skim milk powder. 
Does the Dairy Produce Board arrange all exports of this powder. 
What quantities were exported during the past 2 years. 
What were the countries to which the milk powder was exported. 
My question is directed to the Prime. Minister. I ask: Has he as yet received a request from the Premier of Queensland for Commonwealth assistance for restoration work on damage caused by cyclone Daisy in February? Has the Commonwealth Government agreed to provide funds for that purpose? If so, on what basis will the money be made available? How much will be made available, for beach restoration work? If no funds have as yet been made available, what are the reasons for discriminating between Althea aid and Daisy aid? 
I second the amendment. I agree with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that we should place a responsibility on Ministers to notify the House within a certain time what action has been taken in regard to petitions. In recent times we have seen a considerable number of petitions presented in regard to the Post Office. I think that sufficient have been presented to indicate that there is a national interest in what is happening. 
Honourable members are often asked what happens to petitions. As far as I have been able to ascertain they are filed away underneath this chamber. I think that if a petition is to be worth anything some action should be taken in relation to it. Whilst it is proposed that a Minister will accept some responsibility for petitions that concern his department I think that he should be obliged to report on what action is proposed to be taken. Therefore, I am pleased to support the amendment. 
I join with my colleagues in supporting the proposal introduced by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  namely, the urgent need for the Government to take immediate steps, as a matter of public importance, to plan for the protection of the Australian meat industry against the probable future influx of synthetic or imitation meats on the Australian market or Australia's overseas markets following recently announced developments overseas. Having listened to the statement by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  about importations of these synthetic or imitation meats into Australia I do not know that I agree that the word future' suggests some time very far in the future. This is a matter which concerns most members of this House. On a number of occasions the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has mentioned this subject. I think the last occasion was during the debate on the meat industry research levy. He then referred to the need for development and investigation. 1 agree with most other honourable members who have spoken and who have said that the buying public is entitled to know just what it is buying and that the ingredients of imitation meats should be clearly indicated on the labelling. This should be the case with all products whether they contain animal fats or vegetable fats, whether they are margarine or butter, or whether they are meats, lt has been suggested that the labels should clearly indicate that the products are not meat. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  in whose electorate the largest meat works in Australia are situated, has indicated that some people avoid such a requirement by having the words: This excellent product contains no meat' in small lettering on the packaging. I do not know whether this sort of deceptive advertising can be allowed but I believe that there is a need for legislation requiring all products, particularly food products, to have the contents indicated on the packaging. 
A long time ago Robbie Burns wrote: 
Some hae meat and canna eat, And some wad eat that want it; But we hae meat and we can eat, And sae the Lord be thankit. 
I think the question here is: Is it meat that we hae eat or is it imitation? I think this type of protection can be given by the State and Commonwealth governments to make sure that there is a nationwide protection of all types of foodstuffs, not only meat. The word 'meat' has been used to describe types of food and I feel that the problem can be tackled only on a national level: We strike problems when it comes to dealing with competition from imitations on our overseas markets. We know already that in Australia meat consumption has dropped some 10 per cent over the last 10 years, I think, as mentioned by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  I believe that greater promotion of meat should be undertaken within Australia. Perhaps the number of migrants coming into this country who do not eat as much meat as we do is responsible for the drop in consumption. Again, perhaps it is the price of meat sold locally that is causing this falling off in meat consumption in Australia. 
There is a shortage of meat in the world. Even meat producing countries like Chile and Argentina have introduced meatless days on which meat is not available for sale. I do not know whether this system could be adopted in Australia. However, the majority of people in Chile and Argentina do not possess refrigerators and therefore the practice of having meatless days is a successful one and enables these countries to have enough meat to fulfil their export requirements. Because of such restrictions there is an opportunity to sell imitation meat even to meat producing countries. The western housewife who can afford to buy meat is often offered these new foods as something different to break the monotony of meat. The honourable member for Paterson raised the question of: 'If you cannot beat them, join them'. We have to ask ourselves whether we should sell to countries to which we cannot now sell our meat or which have not enough money to buy our meat, products which contain additives and a portion of our meat. Products which come readily to mind are such old lines as the Aberdeen sausage and Dutch pork which do not contain a great percentage of meat - they were certainly not made wholly of meat. 
Haggis is another product which comes readily to mind although I am not quite certain what goes into it. Some honourable members have mentioned that most of the imitations are made from very high protein foods. Through various means of propaganda we have become diet conscious and protein conscious. Countries such as Japan and the United States of America have concentrated on the production of these imitations. They have been helped along by the high cost of real meat and also by the improvements in the chemistry side of this business. It is said that chemists can produce almost anything and that it is very hard to discern the difference between the real and the artificial product. 
In my travels around local shows I have met purists who support the British breeds of cattle and who would not look at  a  brahmin. They have said to me that brahmin beef is too gristly and that one cannot eat it. I do not know whether these people ever have knocked back a steak because they believe it to be brahmin. My teeth or taste buds are not so good that I would attempt to discriminate in this way. But these people have assured me that they are capable of telling the difference. I notice that one of the meat research committees has carried out investigations into the measuring of tenderness. It indicates that although tough meat may have its origin in the life history of the animal or the procedures of the slaughter floor, it does not follow that the cure must lie in the same areas. The committee looked into the various ways of achieving tenderness. It suggested that a far simpler solution would be a method to make all meat tender. One such method to achieve this is that of ageing. This is the traditional method of hanging meat - to the point of ripeness in the case of game. Someone told me that to make jugged hare one hangs it on a hook and when it gets down off the hook it is time to cook it. This certainly makes meat tender but there are problems and dangers in carrying this out. I understand that the Australian Meat Research Committee is undertaking investigations in this regard. 
Mention was made in the Committee's report of fungi. It says that there are uses for fungi in the manufacture of synthetic or imitation meats. The report mentions that meat can be made tender by adding enzymes extracted from plants or fungi. The report states: 
The traditional softening of steak wilh paw paw juices underlies the practice. 
The report goes on: 
Thus, a plant enzyme like papain is best suited to quick cooking as in grilling steak, a fungal protease to slower roasting. 
Therefore, fungi could act in competition. The honourable member for Paterson has something by suggesting that there could be ways in which we could supply a protein, meat hungry world. We could do this by joining the genuine and synthetic product. I do not think that this would need to be the case in our traditional markets, but certainly it is one suggestion which could bear some investigation. I hope that the Government will give some consideration to the suggestion when it takes note, as I hope it does, of the matter of public importance that has been raised today. 
 I would like to direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He has Indicated that he is looking at amendments to the Navigation Act. My question follows on from the question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and it relates to the manning scale. I know that this is a matter which has caused concern to some of the smaller merchant unions. 1 refer particularly to the Australian National Line ship 'Echuca' on which there were some accommodation troubles and some disputation, as the Minister is well aware. 1 have a particular interest in the cause of the ship's carpenters in relation to accommodation on this type of vessel. Can the Minister indicate whether the manning scale is to be reviewed in the proposals that he has received for amendments to the Navigation Act, and can he indicate whether this will be amongst the amendments that he has suggested could be introduced before the end of this year? 
If anyone in this Parliament or in the nation feels there is a better advocate for the quid a week and keep policy than the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  I should like to hear his nomination. I feel that the honourable member for Wakefield is living in the past. He believes he is a member of  a  government that has provided for us a better way of living and a better way of life than that enjoyed by people in most of our neighbouring nations in the Asian area. The honourable member feels that we would be better off living on their low wage standards rather than competing as a nation in the transportation of the goods of Australia. He believes that we should leave the carriage of our goods in the hands of others. The honourable member has failed to recognise that in doing so we are leaving ourselves wide open. Apparently he would rather see Australia in that position than see Australia participating in competition which would result in Australian seamen and others associated with martime unions receiving higher wage rates for their involvement in foreign trade. He is concerned that the Australian community might be asked to contribute something towards maintaining high standards and therefore he believes that we would be better off using slave labour and the low wage conditions of other countries. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  on behalf of the Minister for Shipping and Transport, has introduced amendments to the Navigation Act. Those amendments do not actually deal with the matters to which the honourable member for Wakefield referred. They introduce a varied means of measuring the tonnage of ships and in effect will reduce the tonnage of several Australian ships competing with vessels of other nations on the trade routes of the world. The Minister said that the registered tonnage of a ship is used for assessing harbour dues, docking fees and such matters. I recall the time when ships using the Suez Canal often had spaces in their hulls sealed off so that they might be excluded from the net tonnage of the vessel as it was on the net tonnage that fees for the use of the canal were charged. The Australian Labor Party does not oppose the provisions of this Bill. On Thursday last the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  moved an amendment, which provided: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House condemns the Government for having failed to amend the Navigation Act to comply with International Labour Organisation and Inter-governmental  Martime  Consultative Organisation Conventions, modern shipping practice, and effective safety operations, as promised by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in August 1967, and for failing to introduce a Bill to provide for an Australian Register of Shipping.' 
The Navigation Act was introduced in 1912 and since then on various occasions piecemeal amendments have been introduced. 1 invite the attention of the Pari Lament to the fact that the Government of New Zealand, another island nation, has seen fit to accept in total the provisions recommended by the British Board of Trade. Those provisions are recognised throughout the world and cover navigation, navigation requirements, suitability of vessels for survey and other matters. 1 understand that in Australia several interstate conferences have been held particularly in regard to survey and other requirements of the Navigation Act. These conferences have discussed the type of vessels, the requirements for vessels and the requirements to be met for vessels plying on the intrastate and interstate trade along the Australian shoreline. The conferences were called for the purpose of recommending amendments to the Navigation Act. In 1967 the Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable Gordon Freeth, promised that the Government would introduce certain amendments. In reply to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  who had proposed amendments suggested by the Opposition Members Transport Committeee, the Minister said that the proposed amendments would be considered. He agreed to quite a number of the amendments put forward but expressed doubt about others and he said that he understood the Parliamentary Counsel was preparing some amendments to the Act. He said that though he thought some of the amendments put forward by the Opposition were acceptable he felt that it was not the time to introduce them. That was almost 5 years ago, on 21st July 1967. Since then we have seen one amendment made to the Navigation Act and that related mainly to the construction of ships. A considerable number of smaller vessels, constructed in Australia, operate along the Australian coastline. The Minister would be aware of these vessels and would know that many of them are under 200 tons, which is the qualifying tonnage for a shipbuilding subsidy. The Navigation Act, as it stands, does not apply to these vessels. 
My understanding of the Act is that there are 3 distinct requirements regarding various types of vessels. The United Kingdom legislation, accepted by New 
Zealand, provides for many more classifications and sets out the types of vessels which may operate within certain waters. Australia does have classifications covering navigation of the River Murray but outside those waters the same classifications apply to ocean going vessels as apply to other vessels operating within restricted waters. The United Kingdom legislation applies to the operation of vessels within certain seasons. This does not create any great problem. The Minister for Shipping and Transport had some experience in this field when he was in charge of meteorology as Minister for the Interior, and he knows that along certain parts of the Australian coastline at certain limes of the year there are potential dangers to shipping. The United Kingdom Navigation Act provides for regulations governing the operation of ships within certain times in the North Sea and in other waters off the British coast and restricting shipping to within certain distances of the British coast. I believe that similar provisions could be worked out to control the operation of Australian ships at different times of the year. 
But it goes even further than that. I noticed recently that the Minister, when speaking on the occasion of the establishment of an air-sea rescue body, indicated that some charge should be made on the owners of the number of small craft operating along the coast to cover the operations of air-sea rescue. Most of these craft are trailer-drawn boats which in some cases operate outside our territorial waters, even if one accepts the 12-mile limit and certainly if one accepts the 3-mile limit. We all agree that the Commonwealth at various times has been put to expense by people who operate small craft which normally should not be out in certain weather. Nevertheless they are, and sometimes they are caught because of the inexperience - sometimes a complete lack of experience - of the operator. This has put the Commonwealth to expense in conducting searches and rescues. 
The achievements of  Mr John  Fairfax and his companion, Miss Sylvia Cook, in crossing the Pacific Ocean in a lifeboat do not need to be duplicated. These people deserve congratulations for what they have achieved, but I hope that this will not be an encouragement to other people to take unnecessary risks by going to sea in craft that are not seaworthy, particularly in certain weather. The cyclone which hit the Queensland coastline between Brisbane and Gladstone over Easter and in which 2 vessels were lost - one a trimaran - indicated the necessity for a uniform Navigation Act which would apply to vessels operating within certain waters at certain times of the year. From my experience of the Queensland coastline, in another month or so it will be quite possible for small craft to operate with reasonable safety in that area, but in the cyclone season from December to the end of March or even to the middle of April there are extreme dangers to people operating these craft. 
We should have a Navigation Act which lays down quite clearly national requirements in regard to the operation of vessels, particularly for the benefit of surveyors of vessels. These amendments to the Navigation Act, which are being introduced in a piecemeal fashion, are not giving the Australian public the protection that it requires. I do not believe that the surveyors of vessels are given the authority that should be given to them in the control of the operations of vessels. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  mentioned a vessel which was not cleared on inspection and could not obtain  a  certificate in one port but apparently was cleared in another port. It was eventually abandoned by the crew in calm water. We can be thankful that it was calm water at the time that this vessel was abandoned. We have had along the Australian coastline numerous cases in recent times - and these have been brought up in this Parliament - which have amply shown that the Navigation Act is not stringent enough. As the honourable member for Swan has said, in most of these cases the objection to these vessels operating in the first place was raised by maritime unions. I mention this in order to refute the argument put forward by the honourable member for Wakefield to the effect that members of these unions do not act responsibly. From my experience, particularly with regard to the margins of safety, they do act responsibly. Perhaps there have been a few cases - and thank God there have been only a few - which have proved that their objections were not based on false grounds. We can be thankful that in those cases there was no loss of life. 
The Commonwealth should conduct an urgent inquiry into the Navigation Act. It should act quickly. The experience of the United Kingdom Board of Trade is there and can be accepted in total. It will be a vast improvement on what we are trying to do new. It will introduce into Australia a Navigation Act which will be to the benefit of most Australians and will be in their interests. There may be some cases where alterations will need to be made. But, as I recall most of the amendments which have been introduced while I have been in the Parliament, they have been almost chapter and verse the provisions of the United Kingdom Board of Trade. If it is good enough for New Zealand to accept these provisions - and we are getting closer and closer to New Zealand - particularly in relation to the operation of small craft we will be serving the country well if, instead of having lengthy discussions about whether we should do this or that and whether we should introduce small amendments which mean very little at the time they are introduced in this Parliament, we accept the provisions of the United Kingdom Board of Trade whose Navigation Act has been drawn up from experience and making allowances for particular seasonal conditions. These provisions can be readily put into operation along the Australian coastline. 
There should be uniform laws regarding the survey of vessels. This applies particularly to fishing vessels which operate between New South Wales and the Gulf of Carpentaria. Uniform laws regarding the survey of these vessels would contribute much to the welfare of the fishing industry. As I said before, the people who are engaged as surveyors should see that the Navigation Act is complied with in regard to the measurement of ships, bearing in mind particularly the safety of operations. They will know exactly what is required of them; the owners of the vessels will know what is required of them, and so also will the men who are obliged to man these vessels in their operations. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Are extended permits being granted to shipowners who were allowed to import ships for trade on the Australian coast on the understanding that replacements would be built in Australia? Are the ships 'Iron Cavalier' and 'Iron Clipper' 2 such ships? If the Minister is not allowing extensions, will he correct the impression that is held by a number of people, including the honourable member for Griffith, that the Minister is granting these extensions? 
 I rise tonight to speak on 2 matters which I believe are the concern of the Commonwealth. To some extent they are the concern of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  .The first matter relates to the reported dumping of 400,000 lb of prawns at Weipa in the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
It is indeed a shocking waste to think that succulent prawns, which are being caught in the Gulf of Carpentaria in such large numbers at the present time, are being dumped. I understand that they are being dumped because of lack of facilities at the port of Weipa. The prawns were caught by people who contracted to catch prawns mostly for private companies. Most of the people involved are professional fishermen from Queensland or New South Wales. I understand that the vessels came in with a load of prawns and were tied up at the wharf at Weipa waiting for the prawns to be unloaded and processed. But the vessels remained there for so long that the prawns went off. Anyone who has experienced prawns going off can readily understand why they were dumped. 
I am concerned that the facilities at Weipa are provided only by the private companies of Craig Mostyn &amp; Co. Pty Ltd, Keppels and Markwell Fisheries Pty Ltd. These companies have their own boats operating out of the port of Weipa and they have other prawners operating under contract for them. I suppose that it is only natural that they would handle the catches from their own vessels first. When these prawns went off, the only alternative available to the people owning the boats was to dump the prawns, go and catch some more and take the chance as to whether the companies would be able to handle the prawns when the boats returned to port. The reason why I raise this matter is that' I believe it is worthy of investigation by the Minister for Primary Industry. I have on the notice paper a question in which 1 have asked the Minister to investigate this matter. 
These prawns are mostly exported, and they provide considerable export income for Australia because they are our very best prawns. People in the south of Australia would be quite ready to pay up to $1 lb for these prawns because they like prawns but they cannot afford them. To dump 400,000 lb of prawns was indeed a dreadful waste of good food and also a loss of the income which would have been derived from the sale of prawns overseas. The Queensland Fish Board operates branches at a number of other fishing ports along the Queensland coast. Although the Queensland Government has seen fit to spend millions of dollars for the benefit of overseas companies exporting bauxite and aluminium from Weipa it cannot see fit to establish a branch of the Queensland Fish Board at Weipa. This section would handle the catch of the fishermen and ensure that they were given a reasonable deal. We have heard much tonight from the Liberals and the Country Party members about the rights of individuals. We hear it from them much more at election time. Here is an instance where they have failed to assist individuals who are operating in a small way. They spend their time catching prawns and instead of getting sizeable pay cheques in return often they are operating at a loss. This is an instance of the individual being bypassed and the Government allowing port facilities to be provided simply by private companies. 
In view of the large quantities of prawns that have been reported to have been dumped will the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  investigate the matter without delay? The Queensland Minister has said that the report is an exaggeration. We depend upon reports and I have had reports. Fishermen have approached me about the failure of the Queensland Government, and the Queensland Fish Board in particular, to provide facilities at these gulf ports. The Queensland Minister concerned has dismissed their complaints as an exaggeration. I do not think 400,000 lb of prawns would be an exaggeration. I would hate to see them dumped into Lake Burley Griffin; we would all know about it then. I should like the Minister for Primary Industry to take an interest in this matter even though it occurred 2,000 miles from Canberra. 
The other matter I raise I believe should be the concern of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. Again, to some extent it comes within the province of the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to birds, particularly native birds, and the taking, trapping and dealing in these birds within Australia. I make it quite clear that although I have, on a number of occasions, asked the Minister for some relaxation of the laws concerning the export of budgerigars I have been speaking of birds that are referred to as cage birds - birds that have been bred in captivity. I am strongly opposed to those people who illicitly trade in birds and send Australian birds overseas. This matter has caused considerable confusion to aviculturists and other people who have aviaries, collect birds and, in many cases, breed birds. Some of these people are capable of even breeding many types of our native birds in captivity. It was not until I made further inquiries into this subject that I found that some people were breeding black cockatoos, a type of bird I thought could never be bred in captivity. However I believe that a gentleman in Victoria has bred them with success. 
I raise this matter because I believe some action should be taken urgently to seek uniformity of laws between the States. We see in magazines various types of birds offered for sale, in New South Wales and Victoria - -goldeons, king parrots, various types of cockatoos and galahs. I understand that in South Australia a person does not even require a permit to be a dealer in birds. In Queensland some people have been keeping birds for many years. Indeed, some have bred some of our native birds in captivity. I think this is a fair indication of the conditions under which the birds have been cared for and of the interest taken in them. These people have been told that if any of these birds that are so readily available in other States are taken into Queensland they will be confiscated, irrespective of whether they have been bred in captivity or have been caught in the open. I am informed reliably that experts have no difficulty in distinguishing between birds that have been bred in a cage and those that have been caught in their native state. 
In Queensland on 6th October 1971 the State Minister for Primary Industry made a statement indicating that regulations were to be introduced - not an Act of Parliament - to claim all fauna for the Crown and apparently to cover all native birds whether bred in captivity or trapped in a wild state. Moreover, no person would be allowed to keep more than 20 birds without special permission. Indeed, in respect of certain breeds no permission would be granted. Some people have been advised that they will have to free some of these birds that have been bred in captivity, have never flown around or had to fend for themselves. It is well known what will happen if these birds are released, even with their own species. 
I urge the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry to seek some uniformity of the laws regarding the trading in birds, trapping of birds, and the types of birds that can be trapped within the various States. I believe that this is a matter that has been referred briefly to the Wildlife Conservation Committee but I should like it referred to that Committee for detailed investigation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Are persons of Aboriginal descent, who have received Commonwealth finance to establish commercial projects, subject to laws and regulations from which Aborigines in their native state are exempt. 
If not, are they exempt from laws governing the taking of fish or protected fauna. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can the Attorney-General say whether the Queensland Government has investigated claims for freight rebates on grain in 1970-71, allegedly for drought relief fodder, which was instead used as stock feed, mainly for pigs. 
If so, can he also say whether prosecutions are being initiated against offenders. 
As funds were provided by the Commonwealth for freight rebates on drought relief fodder, will the Commonwealth be entitled to a refund of moneys fraudulently paid out as drought relief freight rebate. 
Were Commonwealth investigators involved in any inquiry. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. How much of the $100m provided for development of water resources over a 5- year period has already been allocated for specific projects, how much remains to be allocated and which States have submissions under consideration by his Department? 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many applications were received in each State for assistance under the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Schemes up to 31st December 1971. 
How many applicants in each State were successful. 
What were the minimum and maximum amounts involved in separate applications. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many persons have applied for rural reconstruction assistance in each State to date. 
How many of these applications have been approved in each State. 
What were the types of producers who successfully applied for assistance. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he make immediate inquiries into the alleged dumping of up to 400,000 lb of prawns near Weipa. 
Will he act with the relevant State Minister to prevent wastage of valuable food. 
Why has the tabling of the report been delayed for 12 months? The Minister spoke for about 5 minutes before he referred to the questions raised in the matter of public importance. As I say, he said that he has not had time to prepare a statement on the report, and that he will release a statement after the House rises. The Minister mentioned a policy going back, I think, to just after World War I when ships were allowed to operate on the Australian coastline with the permission of the Minister. This policy has not been changed, but what has happened is that there is some laxity in the application of the policy. I am informed that 52 ships which have been built overseas are operating in the Australian interstate and intrastate trade at the present time when, as the honourable member for Newcastle has said, 17 ships of the Australian National Line are tied up. It seems to me that the Minister is lax in allowing these overseas vessels to operate on the Australian coastline. 
As the Minister has said, there are new types of vessels. There have been some changes in vessels and in their operations. I agree with him that it would be better to bring in a ship and allow it to operate for a while before building a replacement ship in Australia and manning it with an Australian crew. I do not think that the Minister will receive any opposition on this score from the Australian Labor Party or from the maritime unions. This has been our policy ever since the days when the Millers brought their first tanker to operate on the Australian coast line. I am not alone in my thoughts that the Minister is being lax in allowing overseas ships to operate on the Australian coast line. I refer to a report in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail' of 2nd May in which the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who is a member of the Liberal Party, referred to the Government's policy and said: 
My inquiries indicate that this policy is not beingstrictly applied, and extensions of permission to use imported vessels are frequently granted. 
He referred to the 'Iron Cavalier' and the Iron Clipper' which are owned by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The point is that there is a particular problem facing the Evans Deakin shipyard, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Griffith. This is an election year in both the Queensland and Commonwealth spheres and,  Mr Speaker,  I want to diverge for a minute because there is some concern about what is happening at the Evans Deakin shipyard and the possibility of the shipyard obtaining further orders. In fact on 6th May the Liberal Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier of Queensland said that the State Government was negotiating with the Commonwealth in an attempt to obtain forward orders for Evans Deakin. 
In shipbuilding there is a need for a definite programme of continuity so that people know where they stand. The industry can maintain a competent work force and it can train apprentices to take the place of those who drop out of the industry. It should not be one of stop and go where people are employed for a short period and then discharged. They may be picked up by or they may wander off into other industries and never come back. Evans Deakin has a particular problem. It has built a graving dock - primarily a construction dock - at the Kangaroo Point yards. There is a possibility that a bridge will be built across the river downstream from this shipyard. This will limit, to some extent, the size of vessels that can be built in that shipyard. 
I thank the House. In shipbuilding and ship repair work there is always a system of job to finish and I hope that this is the way this debate will work out. According to a statistical report concerning Australian shipping and shipbuilding there are 13 dry docks in Australia, the newest of which were constructed during the war. The Cairncross Graving Dock in Brisbane was never completed to its original size, nor was the Captain Cook Graving Dock in Sydney. From the total number of dry docks can be deleted the Frank Nicklin Dock, which is a building dock, and the South Brisbane Government dry dock which will close shortly. In the post-war period there has been no construction of floating docks or graving docks in Australia. 
As the Minister for Shipping and Transport said, there have been technological changes in shipbuilding. Today ships are built deeper and wider and they draw more water. An article in the 'Courier Mail' refers to the problems that will confront the 'Clutha Capricorn' after it is launched at Evans Deakin shipyard. It will then enter the Cairncross dock. The article points out that it will be a tight squeeze. The ship is 835 feet long with a 106 foot beam and the Cairncross dock can accommodate a vessel up to 860 feet in length with a beam of 110 feet. This will give this vessel a 2 foot clearance on either side, so it will be a tight squeeze. 
I believe there is need for some action. I can understand the concern of the honourable member for Newcastle in this respect. In 1970 a deputation from Newcastle spoke to the State Minister for Works,  Mr Hughes,  and asked that a new dock be built as quickly as possible at Newcastle. The Minister said that his last approach to the Commonwealth had been in 1969 when a British expert estimated that a graving dock would cost $20m. A Japanese team had designed a scheme which would cost half that amount. The Minister said that the graving dock planned by the Government would be 900 feet long, 150 feet wide and would take ships up to 100,000 tons dwt, which is by no means the largest ship operating on the overseas trade at present. The Minister said that because of the shortage of dry dock facilities in Australia he believed it vital for the New South Wales maritime industry to have a new graving dock built at Newcastle as quickly as possible and asked for a Commonwealth subsidy - a one-third shipbuilding subsidy and an additional one-third subsidy because of the significance of the dock to Australia as a whole. It is recognised that there is a need for a policy. The New South Wales Liberal Minister for Works agrees that there is a need. The Minister for Shipping and Transport has had time to study the report, even if he has not had time to make a statement. I look forward to his statement. I disagree with him that the present policy is in the best interests of the shipbuilding industry or of the operations of ships along the Australian coastline. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government requested Commonwealth assistance in restoration work following damage by cyclone Daisy. 
If so, when was the request made and have specific sums been requested. 
If specific sums have been requested, how much was for (a) beach restoration work and (b) other work. 
What action has been taken by the Government in respect of any request. (Question No. 5939) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When does he anticipate that he will be able to give me his promised answer on aid to Queensland for restoration work following cyclone Daisy (Hansard, 12th April 1972, page 1493). 
On 12th April  Mr Hansen  asked the Prime Minister, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Has he as yet received a request from the Premier of Queensland for Commonwealth assistance for restoration work on damage caused by cyclone Daisy in February? Has the Commonwealth Government agreed to provide funds for that purpose? If so, on what basis will the money be made available? How much will be made available for beach restoration work? If no funds have as yet been made available, what are the reasons for discriminating between Althea aid and Daisy aid? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What progress has he made in obtaining State and industry acceptance of a uniform building code as prepared for his predecessor prior to her retirement. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the excellent booklets on a wide range of sports provided by the New Zealand Government for use by teachers and coaches. 
If so, will he consider making similar material available to regional national fitness committees and schools for the purpose of improving fitness standards of young Australians. 
I thought that after the bringing down of the Budget last Tuesday night we would never hear from the other side of the House the question: Where is the money coming from? I thought that ghost had been laid once and for all. I think what we have to consider and what the people of Australia have to consider - it is time for this very shortly - is whether this Budget heralds a new thinking by the LiberalCountry Party coalition which has been in government in this country for 23 years. Is it new thinking which has caused the revision of social welfare? Has the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his second budget suddenly found that Australia can afford higher pensions and the abolition of the means test within 3 years - a promise, incidentally, made by the former Liberal leader, the then  Mr Menzies,  in 1949. It has taken 23 years to get around to promising it in another 3 years. 
I do not believe that we will hear any longer the question: Where is the money coming from? It has now been found in this Budget by budgeting for a deficit of $630m. The Government and its supporters - the members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party - must feel that Australia can afford to do this. This is a budget of necessity. It is like the coalition itself - a marriage of necessity. Now these marriage partners find that they themselves are involved in the eternal triangle with a third partner joining in the cooing and the wooing. But as my friend me honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has often said, it was a shotgun wedding and it will come to the same end. 
This Budget in itself condemns previous budgets which have been introduced by successive Liberal Party and Country Party Treasurers. It does not. reflect the true attitude of the people opposite. Last year the Treasurer called for restraint in consumer spending and imposed increases in income tax .and indirect taxes such as sales tax. He was found to be more successful than he could have believed. Consumer spending fell suddenly; savings increased; so too did unemployment. The recipients of pensions were found to be joined on the poverty line by the increasing numbers of unemployed. In so many cases their problem was even worse than that of the pensioners. 
By December of last year the Commonwealth was giving $2.25m a month to the States for the relief of unemployed in nonmetropolitan areas. This had to be increased to $4.5m in February 1972. At the Premiers' Conference in July the rate was increased to $6m a month, to be paid out to the States at least until the end of this year. Yet the number of registered unemployed continued to grow until now it has reached the all time high of 2 per cent of the work force. This in itself highlights the fact which the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  mentioned, that the number of registered unemployed does not give the true figure of those people who are actually seeking jobs; who are available for employment and who are unable to find it. In many cases we find that this money which is being given to local authorities and being spent by them is being used to employ farmers' sons and farmers who no longer can make a living off the land from which they and, in many cases, their parents before them earned a good living. They find that they have to go out to work for wages, and it is not just a drought that has caused this situation to arise. It has been caused by a recession in prices and other recessions that have been brought about by the policies of this Government. 
I am certain that this unemployment relief money is appreciated by the local authorities in these areas. In some ways it is a breakthrough in Commonwealth-local government finance, even though the State governments still administer and distribute the money to the local authorities. But the question which is always before these people in local government is: How long will this money continue? ls the best use being made of it? Each year at about this time or a little earlier councils all over Australia meet. After deciding what work needs to be done they decide what work they can afford to do, and they budget accordingly. In order to finance this work they increase the rates within their own local authorities. As I say, they plan for this work. In some cases they have to obtain loans to carry out this work. Then this unemployment relief money is suddenly thrown into their lap on the condition that they use it immediately and put men to work. Mostly it is men who are put to work. It is an unfortunate aspect that in many of these non-metropolitan areas there are many single women who need work but whose local authority is not able to provide employment for them; and the State governments care little about them. So the local authorities have been given this money and have been told to use it. They have to use it before a certain date. 
They employ men because one of the conditions of this money being granted is that the work must be of a high labour content. So they employ men to carry out the work, but they feel that they could make better use of the money had they known beforehand - preferably at the time of formuating their own budgets - that they would be receiving a certain sum of money so that they would be able to plan accordingly and get the best use of it. 
The Treasurer described this Budget as pensions up and taxes down. But is this correct? Overall receipts from taxes will increase by $567m in this Budget compared with last year. Receipts from indirect taxation will increase by $95m; receipts from company income tax will increase by $28m; and receipts from personal tax - the pay-as-you-earn tax on personal income and wages - will increase by $389m. So despite the reduction in the rates of tax this year, the result will be that more tax will be paid. It is not a case of taxes being down. The man with a wife and 2 children and a taxable income of $50 a week will receive a taxation benefit of 90c a week. A little higher on the income scale the man with a taxable income of $80 a week will pay $1.75 a week less in tax. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  clearly showed that there is no relationship between this reduction in income tax and the promise made by Prime Minister Gorton in 1969 to introduce tax reform.  His  first Budget reduced income tax by  21  per cent but this was subsequently restored by the next Treasurer in the time of the next Prime Minister. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has pointed out, the inequalities of the old system remain and are bolstered by this Budget. 
Provision is made for deductions of up to $1,200 for life assurance payments. A $1 a week increase in the rates of child endowment would have been of much more value to the families of Australia than the increase of $52 a year in the allowable deduction for each dependant of the taxpayer. I believe that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has dealt adequately with, the inequalities of this system of remissions for dependants. 
No provision has been made in the Budget for a topic which is always popular with honourable members opposite at the time of elections, namely, decentralisation. The major cities of Australia grow larger, placing an increasing burden on the home buyer, increasing the price of land and housing, wasting the time of workers in travelling to and from work because of traffic jams and increasing the need for local, State and Commonwealth authorities to provide such services as freeways to allow easy access to cities and a free flow of traffic through them. In many cases by the time resumptions have taken place and freeways have been completed, they are no longer adequate to deal with the increasing demands being placed upon them. Now is the time to balance the cost of providing civil services and works to the ordinary people in cities against the cost of providing funds for the establishment of industry in country centres. The Government should grant tax concessions, not only freight concessions, and make land available. Industries would be encouraged, through taxation concessions, to establish in country centres outside the crowded metropolis. For the benefit of the House I will quote section 96 of the Constitution which allows the Commonwealth to provide funds for such a purpose. It reads: 
During a period of 10 years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
I believe it is time to do something about this matter. While I am speaking on the subject it might be appropriate to mention a particular case in my own electorate of Wide Bay. I believe there is discrimination against country based industries. The major towns of my electorate of Wide Bay - Bundaberg and Maryborough - are fairly well catered for by air services of both domestic airlines. But I refer to the fares that must be paid by those people travelling north from the Bundaberg or Maryborough airports. Both these cities have traditional ties with the sugar industry. They are both manufacturing towns with fairly large decentralised industries associated with the manufacture of sugar milling machinery. Bundaberg particularly is recognised as a centre for cane harvesting machines. Both of these centres do a lot of servicing, through their associated industries, in towns like Mackay, Townsville and Cairns. Because of the scarcity of direct air services to the north, most people travelling in that direction find it more convenient to go to Brisbane and then fly back north over the same route in a larger aircraft. For the benefit of the House I point out differences in the costs to my constituents or their employers who send them north in such circumstances. To travel to Mackay from Bundaberg via Brisbane costs $68.70 or $29.40 more than the fare for a direct flight. The flight from Maryborough to Brisbane and on to Mackay costs $33.40 more than a direct flight. From Maryborough to Townsville the difference is $17.10. From Bundaberg to Townsville it is $24.60. Persons may travel on northbound flights from Maryborough or Bundaberg to Mackay on Mondays and Tuesdays only  -  2 nights a week. I suppose these nights have been chosen because they are the times of greatest demand. I point out that in this small instance of sending people backwards and forwards in the area - persons not only from the sugar industry but also from the cattle industry - many people find that the quickest way to reach northern areas is very often the cheapest. But why should they be asked to pay in one case $29.40 and in another $33.40 just because they happen to live in a certain area. My understanding is that people who live in Newcastle, which is shockingly served by air services to my way of thinking, pay the same air fare from Newcastle to Brisbane whether or not they travel through Sydney. I think that this should be so. We have spoken of rationalisation of air services. I believe that some method of rationalisation of fares should be introduced so that people living in these centres who travel, sometimes for business purposes and at other times on holidays because they want to go to the wonderful tourist centres of Mackay, Proserpine, Townsville and Cairns, will not be penalised as is the case with people who live a certain distance outside the city of Brisbane. If this can be done in the case of Newcastle I do not see why it cannot operate similarly at other centres where people have to backtrack to get a plane and then have to pay the additional fare just because the air services do not run through a smaller centre. 
Mention is made in the Budget of assistance to rural industries. An amount of S20m will be used to provide a bank. Nobody knows too much about this, how it will be operated, whether it will be operated through the free banks, whether money will be made available to them or whether a separate branch of the Reserve Bank will be set up. When we think of this $20m I think it is good to make a slight comparison. Recently $100m was set aside for rural reconstruction. It was to be spent over a 4-year period. We find that $S6m of the amount that is left of this rural reconstruction money will be spent this year. All of it will be spent in 2 years, and another $15m besides. So, in 2 years $115m will be spent, which was originally to be spent in 4 years and which up to date has proved to be totally inadequate for the requirements of people in rural industries. 
In some respects it is shocking to see the way in which people have to prepare cases. One farmer told me that he knew of 18 cases within his district in which applications had gone to the Rural Reconstruction Board and one had been approved. In other cases farmers have changed their approach and each time an accountant has made out their case it has cost them another $38. These people are living from hand to mouth. They are being badgered by hire purchase companies for their commitments and by oil companies to which they owe money. In some cases the companis have even threatened to walk in and take over whatever crop they have had. This year in some cases they have had a good season. All this money has been committed. Give them another year and they might be able to meet their commitments. 
The Treasurer spoke about $20m to provide long term, cheap finance for rural industries. I am sure that all honourable members on this side of the House will agree with me that that is totally inadequate for the purpose for which it is intended. For that reason I believe that the Budget is a short term measure. It is one to appease the electors. It is one of necessity. It is one that will be followed closely by a minibudget next year, make no mistake about that. This Government and these parties have a history of mini-budgets. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said that we cannot be too sure; we cannot look too far ahead. The Government is not looking any further ahead than the election date, and the sooner the election comes about the better it will be for the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have any of the domestic airlines operating Fokker Friendship aircraft indicated the type of aircraft which is being considered as a replacement. 
If so, will the aircraft be pure jet. 
When is this change likely to occur. 
Will there be a need to upgrade existing airport runways and other facilities being used by Fokker Friendship aircraft. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I ask: Following relaxation of the requirements in respect to the householder mailing service, has he received requests from the Australian Provincial Press Association for a relaxation of the postal regulations concerning category A newspapers where supplementary advertising is enclosed with a newspaper and the newspaper is required to print in a conspicuous place the full title and date of publication of the newspaper in which the supplement is enclosed? Has he been advised by the country newspapers that they believe that the present householder delivery service offers unfair competition and could affect the future of those newspapers and their employees? Will he consider a relaxation of the pertinent regulations? 
I am not sure whether the source of information of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  was the 'Little Red Schoolbook', but 1 think a speech about selling people drugs in a permissive society would be better left to somebody other than a publican. My purpose in rising is to speak on the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry. Over the 23 years that this Government has been in power we have seen a steady decline in the field of primary industry and in the incomes of those people associated with that industry. I refer particularly to the dairying industry. In a statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on !6th August he spoke of the various types of assistance the Budget provides for the rural industry and he made some mention of the allocation of $20m in this Budget to set up a rural finance bank. I think it was only a few days later that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in a television interview that the $2 Om was to be allocated to the Commonwealth Development Bank to be used for rural finances. This scotched any suggestion that the money would be used to set up a separate bank for rural finance. 
The Prime Minister was asked: 'What is this about S350m being made available for long term finance in rural industries?' The Prime Minister replied that he knew nothing about it, that it had never been discussed. 1 think that if we compare this $20m being made available and what it might do to the depressed rural sector of the Australian economy with the SI 00m to be allocated over a 4-year period for rural reconstruction purposes, we find that within 2 years of the commencement of the operation of this scheme the money will be completely expended. In fact, Queensland, which drew $16m of the $10Om, already has appropriated $ 16.2m. The answers that have been provided by the Minister for Primary Industry to questions asked by honourable members on this subject  -  I refer in particular to a question asked by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)-  indicate that there is no shortage of applications for these funds. I do not deny that there is a need for this finance. One can judge this by the number of applications received. I do not believe that these people who apply for this finance are not genuinely in need of it. I believe that the great majority of them are. 
In relation to farm build-up, for instance, we find that to the end of March 1972, of 355 applicants in New South Wales, 73 were accepted, 105 were rejected and 177 are still under consideration. In Queensland, of 414 applicants, 103 were accepted, 165 were rejected, and 146 are still under consideration. In Queensland 24.9 per cent of applications were accepted; in New South Wales, 20.06 per cent; in South Australia, 7.3 per cent; in Western Australia, 34.3 per cent and in Tasmania, 10.9 per cent. With respect to debt reconstruction there is not much change in the percentage figures. Of the applications received, 29.3 per cent were accepted in New South Wales; 20.7 per cent in Victoria; 31.2 per cent in Queensland; 32.6 per cent in South Australia; 30.4 per cent in Western Australia and 9.7 per cent in Tasmania. When it comes to rehabilitation the situation is somewhat better. Of a total number of 45 applications throughout Australia, 32 were accepted, 8 rejected and 3 are still under consideration. The $100m to be spent on rural reconstruction over a 4-year period will be used entirely within 2 years and the proposed additional amount of $20m seems totally inadequate. 
I have the greatest sympathy for the people who administer this scheme - those who must examine the applications and make decisions. Although this is not a personal problem for them it must be something of personal concern to them that they are able to approve of only about 25 per cent of applications. Because of the shortage of funds available this percentage only of applications will be successful. There is a desperate need for a greater allocation of funds, particularly for debt reconstruction, especially if it is the Government's intention to encourage people away from the land. Up until now people have been forced from the land, in some cases because they did not have the oppor tunities that are now available under the marginal dairy farm scheme whereby they could sell out and get something for their investment. 
In a Press release of 16th August the Minister for Primary Industry said that a total of $33. 3m would be made available for butter and cheese bounties, the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme and the processed milk products bounty. He did not say that this represented a drop of $11,382,000 on the amount that was provided last year for the butter and cheese bounties and a reduction of $1,252,000 on the amount provided last year for the processed milk products bounty. Further, the Minister said: 
In addition to the budgeted amounts, the Government has given an underwriting commitment to the industry which has allowed butter and cheese factories throughout Australia to make opening pay rates of 34c per lb on a commercial butter basis. 
These rates, which were settled a fortnight ago after talks with the Commonwealth Dairy Equalisation Committee, will mean that dairy farmers will enjoy the same guaranteed returns they have for many years and with the prospect of enhanced payments according to export market opportunities. 
Some people within the industry do not agree with the Minister. They cannot see how, if about $12.5m less assistance is being given to the industry, their financial returns will be more unless it is to be shared by fewer people. That, of course, makes sense. If people leave the industry, production of butter and other dairy produce will decline. In its preliminary annual report for the year ending 30th June 1972 the Australian Dairy Produce Board states: 
Unit returns to Australian dairy farmers at the factory door were at record levels in 1971-72. 
The Board indicates that payments for milk used in the manufacture of butter and skim milk powder in Victoria averaged about 60c per lb. This payment varies in different parts of Queensland by at least 10c and as much as 15c per lb below that amount. The Board makes no reference to the lowest payments within the States. Total butter and cheese consumption dropped in Australia last year and this includes consumption of imported cheese. Whilst our exports have risen we find that there has been a continuing increase in the amount of cheese imported into Australia. The cheese that we export and that which is used for home consumption must undergo strict hygienic tests and be subjected to pasteurisation but I understand that the health authorities do not insist on this with respect to imported cheeses because it is claimed that pasturisation would detract from the taste and quality of some imported cheeses. I believe we run a risk in allowing these cheeses into Australia without these precautions. Cheese consumption dropped by 3 per cent last year in Australia, the per head consumption declining to 8.6 lb. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Has the Department of the Navy given consideration to acquiring fast missile-carrying patrol boats such as the Komar class patrol boat used by the Soviet Navy? What are the cost differentials between this type of vessel and the DDL? How many more Komar class boats than DDLs could we acquire for the same amount of money? 
by leave - I join with my colleagues in congratulating the Government on having followed the lead and adopted a sensible attitude in this regard. I suppose that even at a late hour it is always best to know where one has gone wrong. In deciding not to impose the excise duty on liquefied petroleum gas. the Commonwealth Government is following the lead of other countries. I was pleased to hear the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  say that we would be working in closer collaboration with other countries in this regard. I understand that Britain this year eliminated the tax on liquefied petroleum gas altogether and that California and Texas have reduced the tax on liquefied petroleum gas. These countries are very conscious of the problems of photochemical smog. The decision of the Government announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget acted, I am sure, as a damper on people who were considering the conversion of their motor vehicles to liquefied petroleum gas. The Treasurer announced that the amount of revenue that could be expected this year from the excise was only $20,000. That seems only a very small amount to expect to receive. Probably the greater part of this would have been taken up in the collection and policing of the excise duty. If my investi gations are correct, the $20,000 for the remainder of this year would have been collected at the rate of 3c a gallon, not 3c a litre. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has pointed out, 13.6c a gallon is equivalent to 3c a litre. 
The conversion to liquefied petroleum gas is in its embryonic stages. The people who would be most concerned and interested in its use in motor vehicles would be the fleet motor users. In the cities 60 per cent of the traffic is generated by the fleet operated vehicles moving throughout the city. They are the principal offenders in causing pollution. I believe that operators of public transport such as buses, with this encouragement, could well consider the introduction of liquefied petroleum gas as a motor vehicle fuel. The proposed tax would certainly have been a setback to those people who are interested in the environment and who, with knowledge gained from overseas, are concerned that we do not have in our cities a situation similar to that in cities such as Los Angeles. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  as a doctor, described the benefits of the Government's action from a medical point of view. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Reid is most interested in the environmental aspect. I join with both those honourable members in thanking the Minister for making this statement. I think his action is one that he will have no cause to regret. We of the Australian Labor Party welcome the announcement. 
The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of 19th September highlights the population growth in the capital cities of Australia. The Prime Minister drew attention to the fact that some 60 per cent of the Australian population now live in the 6 State capitals and that approximately 40 per cent live in Sydney and Melbourne alone. In the 5 years to 1971 the population of the metropolitan areas increased by an amount equal to 75 per cent of the increase of Australia's population in the same period. The concept of urban and regional development is not new, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your experience in the Parliament would know. In the closing stages of the last war at the Premiers Conference in 1944 the late John Curtin, Prime Minister of Australia, requested a conference of the Premiers. This was called the following year for the purpose of instituting policies to establish and develop regional growth centres. 
This concept was pursued until 1949 when, with the advent of the LiberalCountry Party Government, nothing further was done until 1964. This was a period of immense population growth in which we saw the greatest drift into the metropolitan areas in our history. Even in war time the Curtin Government assisted in decentralisation. It established throughout the country areas of the Commonwealth various factories for the building up of new industries and the establishment of industries associated with the war effort. The Chifley Government during the postwar reconstruction period of 1945-49 sought to establish industries away from the capitals and to convert to peace time uses those factories which had been established in the country towns for the manufacture and repair of war materials and machines. It has taken 23 years for these aims to be resurrected. 
The co-operation of State and local governments and representation by local governing authorities is very necessary for any planned national urban and regional development to succeed. The Prime Minister announced the selection of  Sir John  Overall as  Chairman  of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. He is a man who has had considerable experience as Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission. The figures quoted by the Prime Minister show an alarming trend and I think that all Australians must be concerned about them. 
In many cases the growth of Australia was government sponsored. People were shifted to different areas for specific reasons. The first settlers to come to Australia did not come by choice; they came because they were brought here. Other people came along to supplement them - to guard them, to1 fed them and to employ them - and so we saw the population growth around Sydney. A little later we saw population growths in other centres. People were even taken up to Port Essington and to Darwin but eventually, even in those days, this policy lapsed as part of the defence of Australia. These people were not volunteers. It is very hard to find people who will volunteer to leave their homes within cities where all sorts of amenities exist. A certain amount of government assistance is required. Government enterprise is required to encourage people to leave the cities and go out into the country centres. The Prime Minister has said that the development will take place in 2 separate concepts, first by developing regional growth centres, the old concept of John Curtin, and second by the promotion of sub-metropolitan centres around the existing cities. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  referred to Canberra as an excellent example of planned building. I suppose many people came to Canberra in the pre-war days who did not come here by choice. I know that many people in the early days of Canberra came here because employment was available when it was not available in other places. Others were posted here by the departments for which they worked. It is only in the post-war period that Canberra has developed. I was here in 1947 and can compare how it was in those days with i?s present state. It is a far different city now. Today it provides for its residents all the amenities within easy access, I would find it preferable living here to living in a crowded city where one must change trains two or three times to reach one's destination. In travelling from point A to point B in a private vehicle, travelling to work or for pleasure, many problems are encountered. Hours of travelling each day are involved. 
The concept of new towns is not novel. The Minister for the Interior spoke of the establishment of new towns and of how long it will take. He referred to a period of 27 years. My concept of the regional growth centres would not necessarily involve the establishment of new towns as such. I believe that regional growth can be promoted within the areas around existing cities with a population of less than 100,000. There are plenty of such centres in Australia. The industries already established could be supported and the establishment of other industries encouraged, providing they have some connection within the area. 
Today one honourable member referred to the employment in rural areas created by forestry projects and the manufacture of forest products. Very few of our country towns owe their origin to a mineral boom. Some towns resulted from mineral booms but their development has long since ceased. Most country towns have been based on the timber and dairy industries, and in some cases on the activities of the beef and sheep squatters. In many such towns the population is drifting away in search of larger living areas. People are moving off the land, not into the nearby towns to find employment but into the capital cities. 
Efforts should be concentrated on establishing the people who are moving off the land looking for employment within the cities. I believe that the concept of new towns is commendable but there is a greater chance of success in concentrating on building up some of the old areas. I agree with the Minister for the Interior in his reference to the fading out of parochial jealousies. Many people realise that they have to stick together or go down together. The success of one growth centre will mean the success of many more. Parochialism does not exist to the same extent today. 
I have been provided by the Parliamentary Library with a copy of an interesting article in 'Nation' on the new towns mirage which refers to an article in the 'Readers Digest'. It states that communities can be designed to cut down the grind and bore part of living, like commuting, traffic jams, parking problems and driving miles for a loaf of bread. It adds that living in a new town should leave more time and energy to be yourself and to do what you want to do. A little earlier I mentioned that people are using up several hours a day in travelling to and from work. There is nothing more unproductive than sitting in public or private transport, travelling backwards and forwards to and from work. If industry can be established within easy distance of residential areas it will mean more leisure for the workers in that industry. In planning the surroundings of an industry provision must be made for parks and all the amenities that people expect today and are being provided by many of the small shires. It is realised that it is necessary to have such amenities as swimming pools, basketball courts, sports grounds and the like to provide people with the things they rightly claim as theirs today. 
The same article states that the worst projects are the land exploitation schemes designed to produce exorbitant profits at public expense and attempts by overreaching developers to rescue foundering real estate gambles with government subsidies. It states that some already have become subjects of local controversy and could grow into major scandals. The article goes on to say that the United States Congress has appropriated only $5m of the $200m requested for direct grants to new towns but it has authorised $500m in federal guarantees for private development loans made to new town builders. Developers in this country should take note of that experience. The article points out that in Europe these problems are already being tackled in many experimental new towns. Governments there frequently buy land for the projects and lease it inexpensively to developers. Mass production of housing is well advanced and the great variety of planning experiments being carried out has not yet slowed public response to Euro pean new towns. If anything, they are growing and filling up faster than even entirely private American developments. 
There is a lesson in that for Australia. Projects should not be left in the hands of private developers with get rich quick schemes, asking exorbitant prices for land as is being done now in the inner metropolitan areas. Earlier today we discussed the construction of a natural gas pipeline from central Australia to Sydney. Other pipelines that must surely follow will carry natural gas in vast quantities from fields in central Australia, the south west coast of Western Australia and no doubt other centres in a network around Australia. From the line that is to run from Gidgealpa to Sydney branches will provide gas as cheap power to country towns. This could be an advantage to industry to set up in country towns where a reliable work force is available and living and transport problems can be avoided. Governments would not be called on to provide transport systems to carry the people many miles a day to and from work. 
Earlier I referred to local government. In any development scheme the problems of local government should be recognised. Local governments face problems, as honourable members well know. In areas where there is a phenomenal growth the demand for services which people regard as their right, such as the provision of sewerage, drainage and water reticulation, places a severe burden on local governments whose main means of finance is rating on the value of properties. While developers might push up the value of the properties I do not think this is the correct way in which these areas should be developed. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many vessels has the Royal Australian Navy on order to be built in (a) Australia, and (b) Overseas? 
How many ships were commissioned during the last year? 
What types of ship were they? 
How many vessels were disposed of by the Navy during the last year? 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe)  paid great tribute to the homes savings grant, and also mentioned what the New South Wales Housing Commission has done, but he failed to reconcile one with the other. He should be aware that people who purchase homes through housing commissions or housing authorities do not benefit to any degree from the bornes savings grant. He mentioned that over the 9 years since the homes savings grant scheme commenced in December 1963 some $108m has been handed out. He would know that the people who had the best chance of getting the money that was handed out were those who did not need it the most. Nevertheless it has given assistance. I do not recall any honourable member on this side of the chamber using the phrases that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  attributed to them in relation to the homes savings grant. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  It is one of the few methods available to the Opposition, not so much to suggest that the amount of money made available for housing should be reduced but to express dissatisfaction with what is happening in the field of housing in Australia. The honourable member for Paterson joined the honourable member for Diamond Valley and the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  In expressing opposition to leasehold tenure of land for building. If there is anything contributing to the increasing cost of land in Canberra the honourable member for Paterson should very well know that it is the auction system that is operating here. Leasehold tenure of land for home building is nothing new. It is nothing new to Queenslanders, anyhow. It was introduced by the first elected Labor Government of Queensland in 1915 - the T. J. Ryan Labor Government - which introduced the workers dwellings scheme under which a person could buy land on a minimum deposit and a home on a minimum deposit. I recall that in 1946 a person could buy land on a deposit of ยฃ10 and build his own home on it. This meant that instead of having to make a large outlay on land he was left with the greater part of his money to put towards the purchase of a home. He paid  a  small rental annually. 
There may have been problems in this scheme, but I do not know of any problem that arises out of the transfer of leasehold land, particularly when it is leased on a 99- year term. The honourable member for Bennelong said it creates problems. I think most of the problems are in the minds of the people who are doing the dealing. It is amazing that if you want to buy something there are never any problems, but if you want to sell something all sorts of problems are put forward. If you try to sell your car or trade it in you will find out everything that is wrong with it. If you go back the next day wanting to buy it back you will find out how good it is and you wonder why you ever sold it. There is no problem to the people in Canberra in transferring land on a 99-year lease. I do not see how there would be any difference with a leasehold system elsewhere. The position today is not as it was in the early post-war period or the pre-war period. The price of land - the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  have mentioned this - is often higher than the actual cost of a home in the Melbourne and Sydney suburban areas. This situation is rapidly arising in Brisbane. If land were available and could be acquired for leasehold, instead of paying $6,000 and more for a block of land that money could be used as a deposit on a home and purchasers could save the cost on a second mortgage. 
The latest report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation shows that the greatest number of loans insured with that Corporation were in the $7,000 to $14,000 range. Very few people are borrowing such large sums of money as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  suggested. He might be used to a better income group of people than I am, but he has suggested that people can pay for their homes in 10 years. It is desirable but very few savings banks or home lending authorities lend money on a 10-year basis. Some people are able to pay off a loan in 10 years but apart from members of Parliament I do not know of many people who could borrow up to $14,000 and be able to repay it within 10 years. I do not know of many members of Parliament who would be able to do that, especially as members of Parliament have not had a pay rise for more than 3 years. 
In the Commonwealth-State housing field we have seen a fall off in the amount of revenue allocated by the States for rental housing. There has been a considerable drop in the private sector in the provision and building of homes for rent. Homes that have been provided are in the older suburbs of the capital cities. Some years ago the Brotherhood of St Laurence conducted a survey to find out what people could afford to pay for homes either by way of rental or by way of a repayment of the purchase price. The Brotherhood of St Laurence came to the decision that people should not be committed for repayments in excess of 25 per cent of their income. What is their income? It varies. The question of overtime arises as does the question of 2 jobs. I believe that the families of Australia are being forced into a 2-wage economy. I am quite certain of this. 
In Monday's issue of the Brisbane 'Australian' mention is made of a survey conducted by mothercraft nurses. They prepared a budget for a family of 5, comprising a husband, wife and 3 children on the minimum wage paid in Queensland - the lowest wage would be $46.80 - and this budget showed that at the end of the week, if they did not run into expenses, the family could have 50c left for luxuries. This situation would apply only if such a family were buying a housing commission home on which the weekly repayments were $11.62 or less and if neither adult smoked, drank or gambled. The family must not run a car. If they keep a pet, some clothing money would have to be sacrificed to help meet the cost of feeding the pet. These nurses, who work mainly in maternal and child welfare clinics, said that their survey showed that it was not practical for a family to try to live on one low income. The mother of the family would have to work part time or full time for the family to survive. Details of the budget were then outlined. The editorial in that newspaper states quite clearly that a family of 5 living on the minimum wage of $55.16 in Queensland would have 50c a week left over. So, there is a need for low cost housing and we cannot look to the private sector to provide it. The Australian Labor Party believes that the proposition it is putting forward will beat rising land costs. I know that this is repulsive to anyone who has been a real estate dealer, but it can work effectively. The State authorities would be urged to build more homes for rental. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid. 
I will not take up too much of the Committee's time. Housing constitutes probably the greatest financial outlay in the lives of most people. It is estimated that a quarter of their income goes towards providing a home. However, only 2 paragraphs of the Treasurer's Budget Speech, one relating to the home savings grant and the other to the war service homes scheme, are devoted to housing. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  pointed out how the Government has failed to honour an undertaking which it gave 12 months ago in regard to the extension of the war service homes scheme to cover members of the forces who have seen service overseas. 
One matter on which I wish to speak is homes for the aged. The Commonwealth makes available money to the States to provide housing for the aged. It is interesting to note that during the previous year Queensland, the State which is represented by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  provided the lowest number of homes for the aged. In 1970-71 Queensland provided only 1 8 homes. I suppose that one cannot blame altogether the Commonwealth Minister for Housing. Perhaps it is the State Minister for Housing who should be blamed for this. However, in the period when only 18 homes were constructed in Queensland, 498 homes were constructed in New South Wales, 150 in South Australia, 611 in Victoria and 52 in Tasmania. These totals have improved a little in the past year. The third annual statement on the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 indicates that the number of homes in Queensland has increased to 172 compared to 803 in Victoria, 340 in South Australia, 212 in Western Australia, 87 in Tasmania, which is not very far behind, and 1,134 in New South Wales. 
We are led to 2 conclusions in the case of Queensland. Either that State is not interested in using the funds provided by the Commonwealth for the provision of homes for the aged or the local authorities are not making land available. But the local authorities with which I am familiar have never hesitated to make this land available. So I put it to the Minister that the should perhaps speak to his colleague in Queensland on this matter. The Minister should put more  bluntly  to him that he should make more use of the funds that are available to him through this scheme. 
I know that the Minister has been critical of the interest subsidy scheme which was proposed in 1969 by the Australian Labor Party. I am pleased that the Permanent Building Societies Association has come forward with a proposal which, with limitations, will be of great assistance to low income earners. The Association instances what a 2 per cent subsidy could mean to a taxpayer with a wife and one child who receives a loan of $12,000 for a term of 25 years. If that man had a taxable income of $4,500 it could mean a saving in taxation of about $232. We are subsidising interest under the war service homes scheme and under the State housing agreements. But I do not believe that the money given to State housing authorities for housing construction is of sufficient assistance to encourage people to build their own homes. I have already dealt with the periods of loans and said that I felt that very few people were capable of repaying a housing loan within 10 years. 
Referring to the criticism of the proposal that the Commonwealth Government should acquire land in the various States I point out that some years ago a far sighted Commonwealth Government acquired land in the States and constructed war service homes on it. It will be noted in the report of the War Service Homes Division that it did own a considerable amount of property and it has built up complete housing estates comprising war service homes. I think the Government should follow that example. I for one do not agree that if it is good enough for Canberra it is too good for the rest of Australia. As the honourable member for Reid said, the leasehold land system has operated satisfactorily in Canberra and it has kept the price of land down. It was only recently when the system was changed that the price of land increased in Canberra. 
Those people who disagree with the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Reid particularly on the proposal to acquire land to make it available on a leasehold basis should bear in mind that a Labor government will not force people to accept the land on a leasehold basis. If some people have a preference for freehold, they have the money to buy the land and still have sufficient for a deposit on a home then good luck to them. I am sure that there will be plenty of land available for them. But for those people who do not want to acquire it on that basis I believe that the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Reid offers some hope of acquiring a home of their own. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. I ask: Has he yet considered submissions from the Queensland Government for Commonwealth financial assistance for phase 2 of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme? If so, is he able to indicate whether this will be included in the second allocation of funds for water resources development? 
In speaking on the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport, I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  which reads: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10. (As an instruction to the Government to enter into discussions with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments and any other interested State for (a) the acquisition and resumption of responsibility for their railways and (b) the provision of capital investment in urban public transport as recommended by the Bureau of Transport Economics in June 1972). 
I disagree with the remark of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that rail transport, which covers rail transport systems in the States, is a very small matter. I think rail transport is most important to this country, especially in relation to the transport of goods. With very few exceptions most of the State transport systems have been running at a loss. Most of these losses have been incurred by the interest and redemption payments on rolling stock, on general running charges, and in some cases in providing transport where it is needed for essential services, such as the transport of stock and fodder to areas of drought at concessional rates. 
In many cases State rail systems are being asked to operate as a social service by providing rail passes to pensioners. I do not disagree with what they are doing, but if these things are to be granted and if railways are to operate as a business, then I believe that these concessions that are granted should be charged to one branch or another of the State social service systems. The granting of passes to pensioners must cost the States quite a considerable amount by the end of the year. This applies also to people in need of medical treatment and people seeking transport to capital cities or to places where larger hospitals and specialist treatment is provided. If these people qualify under a means test  - this is certainly so in the State of Queensland - they are given assistance. But no charge is made on these people by the rail system. So I believe that there is a need for the Commonwealth, as is suggested in our amendment, to assume responsibility for the railway systems. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke of Federal systems and how central governments under other Federal systems are responsible for road transport. Commonwealth aid is given to air, road and sea transport. The Commonwealth over a 5-year period is giving to the States Commonwealth aid roads grants totalling $1,252,000 interest free. I can see no reason why intrastate and interstate rail transport should not receive similar financial assistance. Public transport is an import function in the larger cities. Some of my colleagues have referred to the crowded centres within the cities and the need to provide parking facilities for motor vehicles. 
In the time remaining to me I would like to discuss the problems of the shipbuilding industry within Australia. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  referred to the position at the Evans Deakin yard. The honourable member foi Grey  (Mr Wallis)  referred to the position at Whyalla. I am sure that if the honourable member for Newcastle had the time he would state the position at the State Dockyards in Newcastle. In my electorate a similar position obtains. There is a short age of orders at Walkers Ltd at Maryborough. Further orders are needed almost immediately to maintain continuity of employment at that establishment. 
The situation at the Evans Deakin yard is very serious and I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman. I thank the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for his courtesy when receiving a deputation of Queensland Labor parliamentarians and representatives of trade unions from Evans Deakin and Walkers Ltd to whom I introduced the Minister a little over a week ago. The Minister was most courteous and I believe that he genuinely tried to be helpful. However, it seems that the position as we knew it at the beginning of the year at Evans Deakin was not made apparent to the Minister. Somewhere along the line the wires were crossed. 
The Evans Deakin yard has the capacity to build vessels of up to 67,500 tons dead weight. It contributes about $9m annually to the econmoy of Queensland in wages, salaries, goods and services. On 31st May a joint statement on the Government's policy on shipping was made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It was decided to increase the sliding scale subsidy on shipbuilding up to a maximum of 45 per cent from the previous maximum of 33J per cent. Previously the subsidy was based on the cost of building a similar vessel in a United Kingdom shipyard. As I understand the position, the maximum subsidy of 45 per cent is related to world prices. In Japan and Sweden shipbuilding costs are about 15 per cent less than those in the United Kingdom. Finance is available to shipbuilders in overseas countries that is not available here. In Australia the costs of shipbuilding are not Government guaranteed. Overseas it is not uncommon for shipbuilders to give a purchaser credit for 80 per cent of the sale price over a period of 8 years at an interest rate of 6 per cent or 7 per cent. The Australian National Line purchased the 'Echuca' from Spain where credit is offered at interest rates from 6.75 per cent to 7.25 per cent. I understand that Spain, like Sweden, allows credit over 15 years as against 8 years allowed by other countries. I appreciate the fact that the 
Minister did somewhat belatedly retract part of his joint statement of 31st May. In that statement he said: 
Approvals to  import  new ships will be freely given where Australian yards have been given the opportunity to tender but where no Australian yard tenders for the vessel or where the price of the vessel from the Australian yard, after payment of the subsidy, exceeds the normal price for which the vessel can be acquired from an overseas builder, including the cost of delivering to an Australian port. 
Last week the Minister indicated that the Government intends to carry out the policy as it has operated over quite a number of years. It has been said in this debate that only about 2 per cent of our overseas trade is carried in Australian vessels. In 1971-72 our imports were valued at $4,150,000 and our exports at $4,374,000. I believe that a larger percentage of our trade could be carried in Australian vessels. Fifty years have elapsed since the Australian overseas line was disbanded. In that period our overseas trade has been at the mercy of overseas owned shipping conferences which have controlled freights, interest and insurance charges. In many cases through their subsidiaries they have controlled stevedoring charges and the conditions of transport. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are members of the Armed Forces permitted to remain enrolled in the electoral division where their horns, or that of their parents, is located or are they obliged to transfer - their enrolment to their place of posting within I month of that posting. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
On what dates in 1971-72 did importers produce to a Collector of Customs the permission of the Minister for Shipping .and Transport to import ships? 
On what dates did the Minister for Shipping and Transport give his permission? 
Of what types and tonnage were the vessels, and from what country were they imported? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Was it an accurate assessment of the cost of a 35-hour week which he gave in his news release of 2nd August 1972 when he said that it could add in excess of 9 per cent in unit labour costs df production was not made up or in excess of 12 per cent if production was made up by the working of increased overtime. 
Has his attention been drawn to the weekly radio broadcast made by the Prime Minister on 9th August 1972 when the Prime Minister said that the unit labour cost could increase by as much as 18 per cent; if so, was this assessment a re-assessment of the Minister's figures or an estimate. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many . volunteers were accepted for national service In the last 2 years. 
How many volunteers were rejected on medical or other grounds. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask what action has been taken by the Government in relation to claims  by primary and secondary industry for compensation for losses arising from revaluation and changes in the value of the United States dollar and other currencies? 
As this is my first speech in the new Parliament I take this opportunity of congratulating the  Speaker  and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker (Mr Scholes),  on your elevation to your new positions. I trust that you both will give long service in these posts in the Parliament. The House is debating cognately 5 Bills which implement the election promises of the Government. They provide for pension increases in line with increases granted to social security pensioners. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  referred to the gazetted increase in funeral benefits from $50 to $100 for war pension exservicemen. The Government recognises that a man or woman who served Australia and has been permanently incapacitated because of such service should not receive less than the Commonwealth adult minimum wage. Honourable members can think of instances - fortunately there are not as many as there might have been - of young national servicemen who have been sent to Vietnam and who have returned to face life as totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners. The least Australia, which was responsible for sending these men to Vietnam and at whose bidding they served, can do is to recognise that they should not receive as a pension less than the Commonwealth adult minimum wage. For this reason the TPI rate has been increased by $3.10 a week - from $48 to $51.10. The intermediate rate has been increased by $2.55 a week to $36.55. I understand this will affect some 1,800 pensioners. The war widow's pension is being increased by $1.50 a week to $21.50. This will affect some 50,500 widows, according to the Minister for Defence. Student children are being recognised as dependants, similarly to the children of persons who are the recipients of social security benefits. It has been a matter of concern to many parents in receipt of sickness or unemployment benefits that student children over the age of 16 years have not been regarded as dependants. Provision will be made for a payment until such time as the child either completes his studies or is able to obtain a position. Children will be recognised as dependants of -war pensioners as are the children of recipients of social security benefits. This will be of great assistance to the war pensioners. 
The Government has acted swiftly in recognising de facto wives and ex-nuptial children. I can recall a particularly sad case involving a constituent of mine who was entitled to a service pension. There was no doubt about this. During his service overseas his wife left him. He did not know where, his wife was but he knew she was around somewhere. He could not afford a divorce. Eventually he set up a relationship with a woman and lived with her for 23 years. They reared 6 children. At the time he was speaking to me 2 of the children were still dependent upon him. He was advised that he was elig ible for a single pension only. In his first application to the Department he was advised that because he was receiving an income of $47.40 a week, which was in excess of the amount allowed for a single man, he was not eligible for a Service pension. He had then just turned 60 years of age. When I saw him about 14 months later he was riding a bicycle 8 miles to and from work. I can tell honourable members that he did not carry any excess fat. He had to continue to work for $47.40, or whatever the wage  was  at that time, to support his de facto wife and his dependent children. 
He certainly could not live on the single Service pension and this was having an effect upon his general health. I referred the matter to the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  who was then Minister for Repatriation, and he confirmed the opinion given by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in Queensland. The Minister wrote to me and said that as this gentleman's de facto wife and dependent children were not eligible for consideration under the Repatriation Act any application for a Service pension he may lodge must be assessed on the basis that he was a single man. The Minister said, however, that if he married his de facto wife or legally adopted his children consideration would be given to granting him a Service pension and the assocated benefits. The Minister regretted that there was no better news to convey. This man was caught in a real scissors. The Department would not recognise his children and he was ineligible for a single pension. Because he was recognised as a single pensioner the amount of money he could earn outside the pension was restricted. I am very pleased to see this sort of anomaly cleared up in regard to repatriation and social service pensions. 
One of the cruellest things I have seen is ex-nuptial children not being recognised by the former Department of Social Services. I know that some recognition was . given to this matter during the period when the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was Minister for Social Services. It was agreed that the Commonwealth pay money to the States, to be allocated through the child welfare departments to provide some assistance to women with children born Outside marriage. These children would not normally be recognised as dependants. Even though this assistance was given, a distinction was still being made between members of a family. I know a case of a widow who had 3 children. Some time after her husband died she struck up a relationship and was left with a baby. This child was not considered in any circumstances to be a dependant. The woman had to make separate application to the Queensland Department of Children's Services to receive money for the child. The whole family was being penalised. I consider this to be totally wrong and I am very pleased to see that this differentiation is not to be continued by either the Repatriation Department or the Department of Social Security. 
As the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  has said, it is regrettable that some increases in pensions have resulted in wives, TPI pensioners and others being excluded from their medical benefits. In some cases they have been asked to return their medical entitlement cards. I hope that the negotiations between the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and the Australian Medical Association may achieve some means by which these people can receive their entitlement. If the only answer is national insurance, the sooner it comes into effect the better it will be for those people who have this constant worry of having either to insure against sickness or take the chance of paying large bills for treatment, except in those States which have a free medical and hospital scheme. I commend the measures to the House and congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who represents him in this chamber on introducing this legislation at such an early stage in this new Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. Can the Minister advise what progress has been made on submissions by the Queensland Government for Commonwealth financial aid for stage 2 of the Bundaberg irrigation project, which the Minister will be aware is necessary to complement the work at present under construction - work that will stabilise production of cane sugar, on which the prosperity of Bundaberg and Childers depends? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that quarrels over domestic financial arrangements are often found to be a major contributor to disagreements between married couples ending in separation and divorce? Will he encourage courses on home management to be made available at secondary schools and adult education centres with a view to reducing one of the major causes of disruption to nuptial bliss which, I understand, often occurs after the salary of the wage earner has been reduced? I have in mind now certain honourable members opposite. 
I refer my friend, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who extended an invitation to honourable members to join the Australian Country Party, to that elder statesman of former years of this Parliament, the late Billy Hughes. He had been a member of  a  number of political parties. He was once asked:  'Mr Hughes,  you have been a member of a number of parties but you have never been a member of the Country Party.' He said: 'Cripes! You have to draw the line somewhere.' I know that the Country Party has had differences with the Liberal Party in the past and is looking for new partners. Perhaps it might get on a little better with, and I wish it well on its projected amalgamation with, the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I rise today because of some comment in the Parliament last week about the method of awarding contracts to various firms. In fact, this issue was raised as a matter of public importance, as a censure against this Government, but it fell very flat. I wish to refer to a contract which was let by the Queensland State Government to a certain company in Queensland. Because a Government contract was awarded to this company, creditors accepted its bona fides in good faith. They believed that the firm which received the tender was in good standing. The firm was given credit by an airline company, oil companies and motel owners. The sub-contractors who worked for the firm believed that they would be certain of receiving payment for their work and the wage earners thought that they would face no problems in this regard. 
However, this company was a flop. I should like the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to confer with State Ministers to guard against companies registering in a State when they have debts and face insolvency in another State. This was the case with the company I mentioned, Blastrite Pty Ltd. It was established initially under that name in Western Australia on 5th June 1969. The principals of the company were  Mr Shapland  his wife who was a partner and 2 other partners who subsequently resigned.  His  son later joined the firm. 
After numerous operations, about mid-1972 the company shifted from Western Australia where it was running into financial difficulties. I am not quite clear on all financial aspects of the company's dealings in Western Australia but I know that the firm is in the hands of a receiver. It is estimated that the firm's creditors will be lucky to receive 50c in the dollar. On 22nd June 1972 the company registered in Queensland as Blastright Queensland Pty Ltd with a paid up capital of SI 00 - exactly the same paid up capital with which it was registered in Western Australia. 
The principals of the company registering in Queensland were of the same name and the same family as those I mentioned as principals in the Western Australian firm. 
The firm carried out a number of jobs, one as a sub-contractor. On 22nd September 1972, the firm was awarded a contract by the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine to build a rock wall as part of the Urangan boat harbour. My friend  Mr Jim  Blake, who is the member for Isis in the Queensland State Parliament, asked questions in the State Parliament about this contract. The facts in this case are confirmed by the answers received from  Mr Hewitt,  the Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs. The State Minister stated that a security deposit of $3,235.44 was lodged in the name of the Department by the ANZ Bank, Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Representatives of the company were interviewed and it was established that the company possessed the necessary technical ability to carry out the work which included the quarrying and carting of rock for the building of the wall. The bankers for the company were approached by the Department and they confirmed that the company was financially sound and in their opinion capable of carrying out the contract on the projected progress payments that would be received. 
This company was formed on 22nd June 1972 and by the second week in December it had a debt of $163,000, with accumulated credits. The company drew one progress payment of $34,000. The day it drew that payment some of the sub-contractors, who were mostly truckies, travelled nearly 200 miles to Brisbane to ensure that they would be paid because they had some doubts as to whether they would be paid. First of all they were told the cheque had not been received and then they were told that it had not been presented. The next time they went back to the office it was locked. They found that the assets of the company were all in the hands of hire purchase companies. The heavy equipment was under hire purchase. The company did not even own the typewriter in the office or the table on which it sat. The company's affairs have been placed in the hands of the receiver. I believe that the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine did a disservice to a number of people by not correctly investigating this company. The company's debt includes an amount of $120,000 for trade creditors and $29,000 for subcontractors. The majority of these subcontractors were truck owner-drivers. I know one of them. He is a young married man who mortgaged his home to buy a truck. He thought he would be on good money. Within 6 weeks his truck wore out a set of tyres. He had all the expense of running the truck in that time and aU he has received for it is experience. It is true that an amount of money was withheld by the Department as a guarantee. That amount of $8,000 might just cover the wages and salaries of the employees. It is quite obvious by the way that the people in this company were operating and the way in which they had operated previously in Western Australia that they had no intention of meeting any of their debts. They drew the first progress payment and disappeared from the scene. 
I ask the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral whether it is sufficient for a government department to accept from a bank, as it normally should be, an assurance that the financial position of a company is sound. We know that money can be withdrawn on the day it is paid in. There was no trouble in cashing a cheque for $34,000 and drawing it out immediately. I believe that there should be greater safeguards or closer co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth if necessary. I would like the Attorney-General to have a look at this matter to see in what way there can be co-operation so that the credentials of a company that is operating in another State can be investigated before people are let down in a shameful and shocking manner as were the people I have mentioned, on the eve of Christmas. The young married man to whom I referred has a young family. He had nothing for Christmas. I think he was given $10 to buy a Christmas present for his family, or to buy a ham. That amount of money would not buy much more than a ham. 
This episode illustrates the cavalier attitude of these people. Before the progress payment was made the contractor had to submit a statutory declaration before a justice of the peace certifying that the wages and claims of the workmen employed on the work had been paid in full up to the date covered by the progress payment. The statutory declaration was received but there remains owing an amount of $163,000. I believe that there is a need for a tightening up in the procedures to be carried out on contract work and that there is a need for greater co-operation between States when companies are able to set up business with an initial capital of $100. I believe that the experience which I have outlined should never be repeated. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of the concern shown by both consumers and producers at rapidly rising meat prices. Does the Minister know that many producers are concerned that exceptionally high prices could cause buyer resist.ence and an increased use of substitute foods? Has he or the Minister he represents had any discussion with industry representatives aimed at preventing spasmodic booms and ensuring a stabilised industry? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral confirm that his predecessor, in 1972, deferred for a further 12 months a proposal to change the policy in relation to the siting of letter receivers? Would that proposal greatly reduce the number of letter receivers sited in cities and suburbs? Has the same proposition been put to the Postmaster- 
General recently? Can he advise me of the average cost of installing and servicing a letter receiver? _  Mr LIONEL  BOWEN - No such proposition has been put to me recently and I am not aware of what my predecessor may have deferred. Under the policy that has been in practice for some time, letter receivers, in the main, are spaced half a mile apart and are provided on the basis that they will receive at least 30 letters a day. I think the cost of clearing them is 44c. 
lt is amazing that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  should run through such a long list of actions which he claims have been perpetrated over the past few years. I believe it is important that I draw the attention of the House to the fact that, despite this list of actions, no prosecutions by the Government of which he was a member or by the State Liberal governments of New South Wales and Victoria have been initiated. This fact stands undenied. 
Before raising the matter on which 1 intend to speak during the Grievance Day debate, I should like to reply to some issues that were raised by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  He made loose accusations that Queensland was being discriminated against by this Government. When the statements the honourable member made are analysed, they can be seen to have no basis in fact. The honourable member for Maranoa said that it is rumoured that Queensland will be denied an international airport. The facts are that already this Government has established a committee which has joined in investigations into the proposed new airport and has allocated sums of money to be made available for the acquisition of land for extensions to the Brisbane Airport and for the improvement of runways at that airport as well as for the purchase of land not only for the existing airport but also for a future airport in the vicinity of Brisbane. The Government has also sent a ministerial committee to Townsville to investigate the possibility of constructing an international airport there. 
The honourable member for Maranoa also referred to the conservation of kangaroos. He pleaded that, whilst he is basically a conservationist, he believes that conservation should be carried out in a planned manner. The facts are that an embargo has been placed on the export from Australia of kangaroo products. The embargo was imposed by this Government so that it could ascertain the facts relating to kangaroos. On 9th March of this year, Ministers representing the Commonwealth Government and the 6 State governments met in Melbourne for discussions on wildlife conservation. I refer honourable members to a 
Press statement which was released after the meeting and which states: 
The Ministers agreed as follows: 
The meeting is opposed to uncontrolled harvesting of kangaroos and related species. 
Recognises that for conservation purposes selective culling or harvesting of certain species . . . may be a legitimate management practice. 
Agreed that a scientifically acceptable range of data gathering and control measures be drawn up to regulate culling or harvesting throughout Australia in the interests of conservation of the species and the general environment. 
The Ministers decided to set up a working party of officers of the relevant departments who were to meet before the end of May. I understand that a preliminary meeting has already been held and they are to meet again before the end of May and draw up a report for presentation to the Ministers. A decision will then be made by the Government on the whole issue involved and not on one particular area in regard to the ban on the export of kangaroo products and to the harvesting of kangaroos. I am not certain whether the honourable member for Maranoa knows this. The honourable member mentioned that the income of some people has been affected by the ban; perhaps there has been some additional breeding of kangaroos within this area. But I believe that the Ministers of this Government have acted in a responsible manner and in the interest of the people and a decision shortly should be made that, I feel, will be acceptable to the majority of the people of Australia. 
The matter which I intended to raise this afternoon relates to the type of glass that is being sold for use in motor vehicle windscreens, more particularly in Queensland because that seems to be the only State where any complaint has arisen. I raised this matter almost 12 months ago with the then Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and with members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. I provided both the Committee and the then Minister with samples of the type of glass that was being used in windscreens. This glass, instead of crystallising when struck and broken, shattered into splinters. I asked what action could be taken. This glass was imported from Belgium and was being distributed to repairers of windscreens throughout Queensland. One such man drew my attention to the glass. He had  a  number of windscreens made of this glass in stock, but has refused to use them any longer He drew my attention to the glass and I, in turn, notified the then Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Committee. 
The then Minister wrote to me on 6 July last year and informed me that while Queensland traffic regulations specified that replacement windscreens should be made from non.shatterable transparent material, it is in fact the practice of the administering authority to require the use of safety glass which conforms to current accepted standards. He stated:  . . while the glass sample you provided has been through a heat treatment process akin to that required to meet safety glass specifications, it does not meet United States, British or Australian standards for wind screen safety glass. Vehicles manufactured after 1st July 1971 are subject to Australian Design Rule No. 8 for safety glass. This provides for the use of either laminated or toughened glass and requires that glass should fracture into much smaller particles than the sample you have provided. 
He then suggested that I should take the matter up with the Queensland authorities. Since I raised this matter, the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland has complained about the glass. Apparently no other similar body throughout Australia has made such a complaint, so the only conclusion to which I can arrive is that perhaps Queensland again is being discriminated against in that glass that cannot be sold in other States is being sent to Queensland. 
The point on which I should like to make my protest is that, while it is not an offence to sell this type of glass for use in windscreens, nor is it an offence to sell faulty safety helmets, seat belts or mag wheels, it is an offence for a person to fit them and to use them. I believe that the law relating to these matters requires changing. Australia has a Standards Association and I understand that, while the Association can list approved brands, it is not allowed to list those which do not meet up to its required standards. This glass is being imported into Australia. In the past, there have been embargos for health reasons on, for instance, toys that had a high lead content in the paint that was applied to them. These toys have been withdrawn from the market at the request of the Department of Health. About 12 months ago a type of air gun toy which made a very resounding noise was withdrawn because it was felt that it could cause deafness to children if it was used in a certain manner. 
I have taken this matter up with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and I am pleased to note that yesterday he sent an officer of his Department to Brisbane to confer with the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland about this glass and to arrange for tests to be conducted. If Queensland is the only State concerned, it seems to me that the distributors and importers of this glass have found some fault in Queensland legislation and therefore are distributing it in that State only. This seems hardly likely. 1 would like to see some uniform legislation in respect of not only the glass provided in new vehicles but also the glass provided for replacement purposes. I would like to see some legislation to the effect that imported glass should meet certain standards- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased to support this measure which, as I understand it and as it was presented quite clearly by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  has for its purpose the clarification of the argument about who controls the mineral rights in the territorial seas or submerged lands surrounding Australia extending out as far as the continental shelf. Some honourable members have suggested, and the amendment moved by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  expresses the opinion, that whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the Commonwealth Government should, in consultation with the States, work out a co-operative regime for controlling the exploitation of these resources and that a generous royalty distribution to the States should commence forthwith. The Opposition is not looking at facts as they really are. If the Minister had not presented this Bill, which was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and announced by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, the dispute would continue. The Commonwealth has offered the States the right to challenge this measure so that the matter can be clarified once and for all. 
There has been argument about where the low water mark lies and what people might achieve by breaking the law by walking out into the water. Very few members in this place would be capable of walking very far on the water, although some might think they could. Even if we accept the present 3-mile limit the problem is still unresolved further out. Some people have told me that it is cheaper for them to buy a Commonwealth fishing licence than a State fishing licence. 
The Commonwealth has recognised this and has insisted that a person must have a State fishing licence before a Commonwealth fishing licence can be obtained. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  spoke of his experience as Minister for Shipping and Transport when a disaster occurred in Torres Strait and the side was ripped out of the vessel 'Ocean Grandeur'. He said that it was only because the wind was blowing from a certain direction that the oil slick was moved from a State responsibility to a shared responsibility. It is a fact, to which numerous speakers have referred in this debate, that only the Australian responsibility is recognised by other countries. States are not recognised in international disputes. 
Mention has been made of the Great Barrier Reef. This concerns all Queenslanders and all Australians, because Australians regard the Great Barrier Reef as one of our greatest natural tourist attractions and one of the greatest wonders certainly of the South Pacific if not of the world. I remind honourable members that had it not been for the intervention of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when he was Prime Minister the Queensland Government might well have permitted oil exploration and various types of mining on certain parts of the Great Barrier Reef and certainly in proximity to the Great Barrier Reef where oil blows, if they occurred, could cause inestimable damage to the Barrier Reef. That was one instance of Commonwealth intervention. I am pleased that the right honourable member for Higgins has chosen to support this measure. Knowing of his support for it I realise it must give him a great deal of satisfaction to see this legislation once again before the Parliament, and so early in the lifetime of this Labor Government. The situation needs clarification. The amendment will not achieve anything. The only way to resolve the dispute is for the House to pass the Bill and reject the amendment. I support the Bill with much pleasure. 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether the Commonwealth Railways recently called for tenders for the supply of standard gauge axle and wheel sets. Is any preference shown to Australian manufacturers when these orders are placed? If so, will he continue to extend the preference in view of the work shortage in many Australian heavy industries? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did the Australian Council for the Arts allocate a grant of $50,000 to the Aquarius Arts Festival which finished recently at Nimbin, New South Wales? If the grant did not come from the Australian Council for the Arts, where did it come from? What autonomy  is  exercised by the Council for the Arts or the responsible body? Is Government approval sought before such grants are made? Has the Prime- Minister seen the statement by the Queensland Stats member for the Gold Coast,  Mr Bruce  Small - a man who is qualified, I believe,  in  Sbe exploitation of sex appeal, by taking bikini clad meter maids to Melbourne  in  mid-winter - that suck an allocation of money was irresponsible? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. I know that the Minister is aware and has been aware for some time of the critical position in some Australian shipyards in relation to orders. Is he able to give any indication of when orders will be placed with builders for the construction of the navigational aid vessels? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. What has happened to several requests made by the Queensland Government for financial assistance in the construction of phase 1 and phase 2 of the Bundaberg irrigation project? Can the Minister indicate when a positive decision can be expected on this important project which is located in a serious drought prone area? 
Perhaps it is time the Whip got cracking. I should like to say a few words about this Budget which has pushed members of the Opposition to the verge of hysteria. As I heard the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  I felt a little like the man who had been a feeding a dog on steak for a week and the first time he went to pat it, it bit off his fingers. Having agreed to allow more speakers from the Opposition and having agreed to stand down for them, I find that members opposite have treated this generosity as a weakness. Well, we can always amend this. . 
I should like to comment on what was said by the honourable member for Wimmera. He spoke of meat and said that the meat industry had been doing very well on its own, without any assistance. I do not know that this is altogether correct because quite an amount of assistance has been given to the meat industry by this and previous governments. But when the honourable member said that if we place ties on people and on production, sure enough we will find that the people are going to want this food, my mind went back a little over . 12 months and I thought of those wheat quotas which were introduced and how people were told that they could not sell their wheat. We know what went on in black market dealings in wheat and we knew that before the season was out, people would be crying around the world, looking for wheat to sell. This is the position. 
If the honourable member for Murray could show any proof that I promised $40m to any dairy industry I would be very happy to see it. I would remind him, when he is talking about dairy industries, that in the last Budget his Government reduced assistance to the dairy industry by $13m - not $9m - and it did not make any arrangements for any part of that money which was taken from the dairy industry to be used for readjustment purposes for the industry. No assistance at all was provided by the previous Government, and $13m was taken away from the industry. I do not remember too many cries coming from that corner of the House on that occasion, 12 months ago. Honourable members opposite should cast their minds back. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  attended a meeting with me in Ipswich and he will tell honourable members opposite what I said. I referred to the phasing out of assistance to the industry and the way it is being done at the moment. 
The honourable member for Cowper is in the chamber; he would know this and could verify what I have said. Someone at the meeting asked me whether the Labor Party would be phasing out assistance and I said yes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I think we might have a little more decorum. 
What some people do not seem to understand or will not admit is that this Budget was prepared to produce the greatest good for the greatest number of people. The emphasis has been changed so that it assists those people in need. There is a reference in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to broken promises. In this Budget - the first in 24 years by a Labor government - the first step has been taken in the alleviation of the means test. In 1949 the Liberal-Country Party Government promised to lift the means test and 24 years later, the first step has been taken by a Labor government. Value in the pound! Let us not talk about inflation; let us compare the 1949 pound to the $2 of today or, if you like, the $2 of 6 months ago. The facts are that the Labor Party in a little over 9 months in office has done more for the people of Australia in equating the distribution of assistance and wealth in Australia than the Liberal-Country Party Government did over a period of 23 years. 
It is a time honoured tradition in Budget debates to go through the pages of the Budget with a fine comb and seek out and enlarge out of all proportion some new and daring measures that the Government proposes. There are new and daring measures. This Budget represents an altogether different approach. The easiest form of criticism is to paint a terrifying picture to the public of the immediate poverty facing them. Just a few moments ago I was speaking to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and he told me that in the past month there was a record amount of overtime worked in Australia. What was the picture 9 months ago, just before the election? Over 120,000 people were looking for jobs and could not be placed in jobs. Under Labor these people have a job. Honourable members opposite can worry about inflation, but if we give people an honesty of purpose to allow them to work and to be able to pay their debts as they come around, it is more important than inflation. This is what has happened in this Budget. 
We have kept our promise not to increase personal income tax. What has been the pattern over the last few years under a Liberal-Country Party government? Income tax has gone up by 2.5 per cent, down by 2.5 per cent and up by 2.5 per cent again. It has been up and down like a yo-yo, or, as it was described by one of my colleagues, like a toilet seat at a mixed party. This is what has been happening. It is true that there have been some changes and people have been asked to make some contributions in other respects. They have been asked to pay a little more for the spirits that they drink or for the cigarettes that they smoke. But it is in their hands to control how much tax they pay in that regard. It is up to the people to control their own excesses and determine how much tax they will pay. Perhaps petrol might be regarded as a necessity. But, as the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said very rightly, the people associated with business can claim the cost of their petrol against their income tax. However, the wage earner cannot claim the petrol that he uses to go to work. 
 That is right; he cannot claim it, yet honourable members opposite say that the wage earner is being helped along while the people in other areas are being prejudiced. The wage earner can also control his consumption of petrol and he would be far better off paying a little extra excise on petrol than he would be paying an extra 2.5 per cent in income tax that may have been imposed by a Liberal-Country Party government. Income tax may even have been put up a little further by such a government. It is very seldom that it would be reduced. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the benefits passed on by the Budget and how the emphasis has changed with the present Government. Under the former Government expenditure did not go to assist the people most in need and was not allocated with some sort of equity within the Australian society, but the emphasis has been changed by the Labor Government. I pointed out how people could, by controlling their excess desires, limit the amount of indirect taxation they would pay. I was referring to the purchase of cigarettes, tobacco and spirits, and to some extent also to the use of petrol. Revenue is obtained from excise not merely to annoy the public. It is used to carry out policies which the previous Government did not have the courage to introduce. It preferred to drift along, postponing social reforms that it may have deemed necessary but did not have the initiative to implement. It remained simply as a belief, without action being taken. 
The Labor Government has vastly increased expenditure on education, including the introduction of free tertiary education. This is surely an epoch making step which is unprecedented in the Western world. The community should reap enough benefits from that move alone to offset the measly few cents excise added to cigarettes, alcoholic drinks and petrol. In this country for ages we have been paying lip service to the maxim that Australia stands or falls by its education system, that only a high level of brain power will enable us to match the rest of the world in science, technology, and pure research. Now we have decided to move towards equality with the other developed countries and members of the Opposition are screaming their heads off about the cost. One could be led to believe that their platform, and their negative policies of the past are more appealing to the uneducated and the ignorant. 
I notice that some Country Party members have come into the chamber. I would like to read to them from a report of the Country Party Conference which includes a reference to the presentation by a select committee of a 23-page document on ways of halting inflation. The report was released by  Mr Mike  Evans, the Queensland Secretary of the Country Party. He advocated the imposition of limits on the growth of Federal and State public services; elimination of deficit financing so that all governments would have to balance their budgets; and foreign investment to be confined to where it would result in an increase in production. That is a laugh. 
He advocated that investment allowances be confined to areas leading to greater productivity and not to those likely to encourage non-productive capital works or speculation, and also that there be moves to discourage speculators in land and buildings in urban and rural areas. I do not think that that proposal would get much support from the Premier of Queensland in view of his reaction when the Queensland Minister for Lands and Forestry commendably co-operated with the Brisbane City Council to halt land speculation. 
The Premier on his return to Queensland hastened to disclaim anything that  Mr Rae,  the Minister for Lands and Forestry, had said. He said that the move would interfere with the right of private enterprise to make profits. The Country Party also advocated a national review of tariffs to be speeded up as opposed to the ineffectual, arbitrary acrosstheboard reduction recently applied. That is after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. 
The Budget also contains important housing provisions and I am pleased to note that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is now at the table. I congratulate him on what he has achieved in reducing the waiting time for homes and making homes available, particularly in areas where they are most needed and to people who in many cases are unable to purchase a home of their own. I also congratulate him on the action he has taken on interest rates. For the first time for many years the Minister for Housing has initiated a housing agreement with the States making available to them at 4 per cent over 5 years sums of money that have never been equalled in the past and which exceed previous allocations. In this Budget up to $2 18m is being allocated for housing and at a 4 per cent interest rate which is fixed for 4 or 5 years. Previous rates of interest in housing agreements between the Commonwealth and the States have been tied within 1 per cent of the bond rate. I congratulate the Minister for Housing for what he has done in this regard. 
With experts assuring us that leisure time is certain to increase, possibly to 3 clear days a week soon, it would be irresponsible not to start catering for the recreation needs of our community. The allocation of $6.2m for recreation and sport is probably small when compared with the massive efforts of many other countries but I again proudly remind honourable members that it is the first time in the history of this Parliament that such a need has been acknowledged and moves to meet this demand have been started. 
Tourism is yet another field where the Budget shows a more enterprising spirit than the so-called free enterprise Opposition ever did in its 23 years of power. Through various establishments and means, the Government will make grants and loans available to the tourist industry in the hope of revitalising it. Some honourable members may feel that tourism is a private matter better left to the individual. They may ask: Why bother about it? At this moment the Australian tourist industry is earning approximately $2,400m a year and it employs about one-tenth of the work force. This capacity must not only be maintained but should be stimulatively increased. This section of the work force employs a large number of unskilled female workers, particularly in many country towns. Through a number of measures the Government hopes also to attract more overseas tourists to Australia, thereby reducing the awesome travel gap that now stands at a deficit of about $220m a year. The aim will not be to restrict Australians in their overseas travel, but to lure more overseas travellers to Australia. From that, a' host of industries will benefit. I instance accommodation, service industries, airlines, manufacturers and so on. 
The honourable member for Lang, .the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  described this Budget as 'a very Australian Budget' and I agree with him. The Budget clearly puts Australia's interests ahead of any other interest. It hopes to make life better and happier for the majority of the people even if, in the process, some totally undeserved and unfair old privileges for a few have to be chucked overboard. I thank the Minister for Tourism. 
I commend this Budget to the House. I realise that not everyone can be pleased with everything that the Government does. Some of the measures that have been introduced I perhaps would prefer to have seen introduced with a little more notice but I believe that Australia has a sympathetic government which recognises the problems of the people and realises that something must be done in certain spheres and it has acted. If the Opposition points out that all our election promises have not been carried out, I remind it that the Government has at least 2 more years in office. This Budget is the forerunner of many more Budgets that will be introduced by  Mr Crean  as the Federal Treasurer. I have much pleasure in supporting the Budget. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a possibly serious situation that has arisen following the discovery in Maryborough of a West Indian dry wood termite infestation? In view of the serious effects that the spread of this pest could have if action is not taken, can the Minister indicate whether the Australian Government will offer the Queensland Government financial assistance towards an eradication campaign? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and it is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Cook. Is one-third of the housing assistance loans made under the States grants housing assistance legislation made available to building societies at the 4 per cent interest rate which has been fixed by this Government, or is it made available to the building societies by the State governments at a different rate of interest? 
I wish to speak to that section of the estimates of the Department of Transport concerned with shipbuilding. This is an area in which I have had some experience, being a third generation shipwright. I have been most appreciative of the actions of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  since he has taken over this portfolio. I think his actions in this regard can speak louder than my words. To illustrate this point I quote figures of ships that were on order at the time of the election on 2 December 1972, and of ships on order at present. Vessels on order and under construction on 2 December 1972 were 39 but at present - some 10 months later - 75 ships are on order. Vessels for which tenders had closed but for which no orders had been placed numbered 7 at election date but there are now 33. Vessels for which tenders had been called, totalled 2 last December. I well know this fact because I introduced deputations from the Queensland shipbuilding yards of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd and Walkers Ltd to the then Minister for Shipping and Transport and the then Minister for the Navy. Those deputations wanted to know what work might be pushed into the yards to enable them to maintain some sort of continuity. At 2 December 1972 there were 2 orders for which tenders had been called but at present there are 24. Vessels for which tenders might be called - prospective vessels - numbered 17 at that stage but now there are 6. 
The position has changed from one of disillusionment and wonderment at what was to happen to the shipbuilding industry after the Tariff Board report was released in June 1972. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who was Minister for Shipping and Transport at one time, will recall that the Tariff Board, whose report was released early in June 1972, commenced its hearings some 3 years previously. He would know that the conditions that applied at the time of the hearings were entirely different from those applying at the time the Tariff Board report was released. The Government of that time put forward a policy which meant the complete failure of continuity of work for existing shipyards throughout Australia but which encouraged a number of firms to enter the shipbuilding industry. They were attracted by a very high subsidy. They were attracted to the industry to carry out construction jobs which did not require the technical equipment usually associated with shipbuilding. They were able to take advantage of the policy of the Government, which was in no way concerned with the retention of existing shipbuilding yards and a rationalisation of shipbuilding orders among those yards. 
I know that the subject of rationalisation of orders is very close to the heart of the present Minister. I pay a tribute to him in this respect. I have mentioned that 75 vessels are now on order or under construction. I known that most of those orders arose from the Minister's decision. Under the Navigation Act he has power to allow vessels to operate on the Australian coast under permit for single voyages or, in some cases, any number of voyages. In many cases those vessels are manned by overseas crews. But he has that power to allow them to operate. He also has power to ask of the people who are operating these ships that they place an order for a vessel to carry out this work with an Australian shipyard within a certain time and place a bond with the Australian Shipbuilding Board. The Minister has interpreted the Act as it was meant to be interpreted. 
In case anyone has any ideas that the previous Government or previous Ministers for Transport were interpreting the Act properly, I instance what happened with respect to a vessel by the name of 'Clara Clausen'. The Clausen Line was operating this vessel between Cairns and the Gulf country. It was carrying cattle to the meat works at Queerah. Before I entered this Parliament - in about 1960  -  it was required to place an order for a replacement vessel. It made inquiries of Australian shipyards about a replacement vessel, but it did not go any further with the placement of an order. It continued to operate with the permission of the then Minister for Shipping and Transport. Eventually it brought in another vessel. But it was not a replacement vessel that was built in Australia; it was a vessel that was built in Yugoslavia. It operated that vessel on the Australian coast. 
One of the first actions of the present Minister for Transport was to advise this Line and others like it that before he would grant a permit they would need to place a genuine order with an Australian shipyard. Many of them have done so. An examination of the number of prawn trawlers that have been placed on order or are under construction in Australian yards will give a fair indication of the number of vessels which were operating on the Australian coast under permit. But it did not stop just with small vessels; it extended to vessels of considerable size that were operating with the permission of the Minister for Transport. I hope that this practice will cease. 
Shipbuilding is not an industry that a company can move into and out of at will. There may be some types of ship construction which permit this to happen, such as particular types of oil rigs, particular types of lighters and that type of construction, but for practical shipbuilding purposes a skilled work force has to be built up over a period of years. Apprentices are trained in the various aspects of the work. Australian shipyards generally over the last decade or so have moved with the advanced techniques in ship construction. They probaly have not moved as fast as they would have liked or as the people for whom they were building would have liked. A lot of this is tied up with the lack of continuity of orders and a need to know where the industry is going. I am sure that those people associated with the shipbuilding industry have appreciated the decisive action taken by the Minister, particularly in regard to the Evans Deakin shipyard in the placing of orders. He almost bent over backwards to ensure a continuity of work. 
I have' been personally associated with the Minister for quite a number of years. Sometimes I have been amazed at this outspokenness in telling the unions where they are wrong. He has never been frightened to tell them where they have been wrong. As a private member or as a Minister if he believes someone is wrong he has never been frightened to state his attitude. The references which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made about the Minister in this regard, whether it be shipbuilding or any other aspect of his portfolio, definitely do not line up with the nature of the man as I and many other members who have worked with him know him. 
I believe that the Minister has placed the shipbuilding industry in a position where it knows where it is going. He has given some comfort of continuity of employment to those people who have given a lifetime to the industry, particularly in decentralised areas such as Maryborough, which is in my electorate, where shipbuilding has been in continuous practice since the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939. I am sure the industry will continue with the assistance of the policies which will be implemented by the Minister for Transport. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Services and Property by referring to yesterday's sudden resignation by Spiro Agnew as Vice-President of the United States and of his subsequent conviction by a district court for, among other things, failing to reveal donations which were made to his campaign funds. I ask the Minister whether there is any evidence of this kind of malpractice in Australian politics. If so, will he consider appointing a royal commission to inquire into the matter or take other appropriate steps to protect the Australian parliamentary institution from the kind of corruption instanced in the Watergate scandal and in the more recent case of the VicePresident of the United States? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Northern Development. I refer the Minister to reports of contracts for large sales of sugar to China. When will the Minister be in a position to announce details of these sales of sugar to China? 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Housing I pay tribute to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  for the way in which he acted so promptly after obtaining his portfolio. On 16 January, not very long after his appointment as the Minister, he made certain announcements. Among the measures he announced was an increase in the maximum war service homes loan from $9,000 to $12,000. On the same date he also announced a special grant of $6m to the States for the construction of 1,500 homes. The amount that was allocated was restricted to some extent by the amount of housing that could be constructed by the State bousing authorities. The money was to be used for the construction of homes for rental to needy families. This announcement is an indication of the concern that the Australian Labor Party has placed on housing, not just now but over the years when it was in opposition. I can recall the Minister for Housing, in the years that I sat alongeside him on the opposite side of the Parliament, expressing his concern for the need to provide housing for needy people, to endeavour in some ways to catch up with the backlog. 
I have mentioned 2 announcements that the Minister made on 16 January - an increase in the maximum war service homes loan and the special allocation to the States for the construction of homes for rental to needy people. I am sorry to say that my own State of Queensland accepted the lowest amount. It was very slow to take advantage of the generosity of the Australian Government, even though I believe there is a great need for housing in Queensland. I find that in the cities of Bundaberg and Maryborough there is a need for homes for rental. The Government has acted in the provision of such homes. But before going on to this matter I refer also to another announcement which the Minister for Housing made on 16 January, that is, that the Government had decided to extend eligibility for benefits under the War Service Homes Act to national servicemen and members of the 
Tegular  forces without overseas service. This was an entirely new move, something different, to give encouragement to those who joined the Services to work and act in the defence of Australia should the need arise. 
Many of these people offered their lives for their country. Thank goodness - and we can all be thankful for this - we have not had to ask them to honour that offer. Some members of the forces have had overseas service; others, through no fault of their own, had previously not qualified for a war service home because they had had no overseas service. As from 7 December 1972 members of the regular forces who had 3 years service and national servicemen who chose to serve the remainder of their time became eligible for what was then known as a war service homes loan. It is now known as a defence service homes loan. Eligibility for such a loan was also extended to include single and widowed nurses and ex-service women without dependants who had previously been debarred from obtaining a war service home. These 3 announcements were made on 16 January, a little less than a month after the appointment of  Mr Les  Johnson as the Minister for Housing. 
It has always been a matter of concern to members on the Government side and I think to members generally, and more particularly to those people who are buying a home, that the rate of interest on a housing loan should be kept as low as possible. For the first time, in February the Minister for Housing attempted to negotiate with the various State housing authorities a 5-year loan by the Australian Government to the State housing authorities, and in addition he sought a continuation of the provisions attaching to previous Commonwealth-State housing loans. He fixed the interest rate for the loan to the States at 4 per cent. Since the inception of CommonwealthState housing loans money had been advanced to the States at an interest rate one per cent below the ruling interest rate. The Minister has tied the interest rate that will attach to the moneys that will be advanced to the State housing authorities at 4 per cent, which must mean cheaper homes for a majority of people, particularly those who have to live in rented homes. I pay a particular tribute to the Minister. Some State Ministers expressed doubts about his announcement because conditions were laid down that so much of the money that was to be made available was to be used to construct houses for rental only, as it was felt that these homes should be available to those people who were not able to purchase a home. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has spoken of the damage done to houses by storms. It has always intrigued me that certain insurance companies have disclaimed any responsibility for meeting the cost of damage caused by certain storms. They have regarded them as acts of God and have accepted no responsibility for making good the damage. I note that in relation to defence service homes - I draw the Minister's attention to this fact - some insurance companies are now disclaiming any responsibility for meeting the cost of damage if a roof of a house has not been breached, if a window has not been broken. I would like the Minister to have a particular look at this aspect of insurance. Previously when there has been some damage and iron has been lifted - I can recall one particular case - there has been disputation with an insurance company. The owner of that home showed me how pollution from megass from a sugar mill had been floating between the tiles of his home. This is pollution through a type of carbon which expands when wet. Over a period of years it had expanded to such an extent that it had actually lifted the tiles and allowed the rainwater to go through into the home. This is just one aspect to be considered with insurance for homes. 
Something that has always amazed me is that one finds very often after a storm that, for seemingly no reason at all, a home has been completely deroofed, completely devastated by the storm while, alongside, an old home, in some cases 50 or 70 years old, remains untouched. I hope that much will come from a study of the effect of the storm on houses; I think it will bring a great benefit to all of us for it is an ill wind that blows no good. I recall that following cyclone Ada the views on building construction, particularly in the tropics, were reviewed. I certainly feel that if we do not take advantage of knowledge gained from these things that beset us from time to time and if we do not discover how we can overcome them and, more particularly, how these homes can be adequately insured, we will not be making full use of the assets that are available to us. 
It might interest the House to know that this year an additional $2 12m has been advanced to the States for housing. Grants to the States total $6. 8m for housing for underprivileged people which is similar to the amount granted last year. For defence services homes the increase this year is $27.7m making $102m for the full year. It is also interesting to note that the amount of repayments- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Postmaster-General received letters from the Apex Clubs of 
Australia protesting against a proposal by the Post Office to alter the postage rate on their fortnightly journals by transferring it from category A to a higher rate? Has this organisation any cause for concern that its mail rates will be increased in the next 12 months? 
I address my question to the Minster for Science. Has he or his Department studied reports of experiments by a lecturer in environmental health at the Papua New Guinea University? These experiments, at the Bomana Prison Farm piggery, use pig manure to produce methane gas for boiling water, providing light and power, operating a gas refrigerator and powering a 6- cylinder combustion engine? I understand that a Queensland farmer also has produced fuel in this way. It is estimated that 30 pigs can produce sufficient methane gas to provide daily cooking, lighting and refrigeration needs for a family of six. Have these developments been investigated to ascertain whether sewage treatment plants in Australian towns and cities could be adapted as fuel producers? 
The motion that we 'are discussing asks this House to express the opinion that the Australian national anthem should not be changed without a total vote of the Australian people. I believe that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  did indicate what a total vote means and how complicated it would be to achieve one. It would be even more complicated than asking the public to vote on any one of the number of entries which were submitted by people who are genuinely concerned about this matter. People with a national pride submitted some 4,000 entries consisting of either words or music or of both and representing what they believed should be the Australian national anthem. They do not believe that we should have an anthem that his been passed on from our colonial days. When it is said that the present anthem has been our national anthem for 200 years it is worth recalling that we have been a nation for only 72 years, and it is a matter of personal pride to me that we are now going to have an Australian national anthem. 
I agree that the anthem decided on may not be my choice, but I certainly believe that we should have an anthem that is Australian, that is about Australians and that will be sung by Australians whenever they feel there is a necessity to sing the national anthem. The words and melody of 'God Save the Queen' are obscure. It has been stated that the words have been changed on various occasions in order to spare the pangs created by the original verse but, as I say, the words are obscure. The earliest copy of the words appeared in the Gentleman's Magazine' of 1745. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in announcing the plans for his proposal to hold a competition for the Australian national anthem has on a number of occasions indicated that he is not scrapping -God Save the Queen'. He is not suggesting this at all. He is relegating it to a most important place in our Australian history and our way of life. It will be reserved for Royal occasions when the Queen - or whoever is the monarch at the time - will be present. Indeed, these will not be infrequent occasions because we will soon have had within 6 months 2 visits to Australia by the Queen. 
The same people who are criticising the proposal for an Australian national anthem have criticised the Prime Minister. In fact, I heard some critical remarks passed at the recent parliamentary reception when the Prime Minister proposed the toast to the Queen of Australia. Some of those people must have thought very hard when the Queen herself said that this was a title that her father had sought back in 1947 and how pleased she was to have this title bestowed upon her. I do not believe that Australians are any less loyal than their English counterparts. I would not say that it was altogether voluntary and I would not say that we dodged the occasion, but as the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  said, we all remember in our school days assembling before the flag and singing 'God Save the Queen' - although in my day it was 'God Save the King'. 
I must admit that my singing ability is very limited. As a matter of fact, not long ago I stood on an occasion when we sang God Save the Queen' at the loyal toast and a gentleman who has some knowledge of music and who was sitting alongside me said, 'How come your wife can sing so well and you cannot even sing "God Save the Queen"?' I recall that at school when there was choir practice I was always given the job of going and weeding the garden. So I cannot claim to have any knowledge of music,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  otherwise I would probably sing you some verses of 'God Save the Queen' at the moment. Probably one of the few people in this House who is qualified in music is my colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  who, for 6 years, held the Australian championship in E flat bass. He was one of the best players in the brass band at the time when the Cairns Citizens Brass Band was one of the leading bands in Australia. I would say that the honourable member for Leichhardt would be better qualified than most honourable members to say what should constitute the national anthem. 
There is a story about the man- the better bugler- with the 4 B's, but I will reserve that for another occasion. There is within Australia a feeling of nationalism. We want something that is distinctly Australian. The gallup polls have shown that an increasing number of people are in favour of an Australian national anthem; in fact 80 per cent have already indicated that they favour an Australian national anthem. I do not think that any of these people are disloyal or merely want to drop 'God Save the Queen', but they feel that there is a need for an Australian national anthem. People will be going shortly to New Zealand for the Commonwealth Games - and I believe that the word 'Commonwealth' is used properly in that sense as it involves the Commonwealth countries. It is not used properly when it is applied to this Parliament. However, the people who will attend these games - and this applies to those who, for instance, attended the Olympic Games in Munich - will see Australians win various events and hear 'God Save the Queen' played as the national anthem of the winning country. They will wonder who these Australians are - are they Englishmen or are they Australians? Some of the comments that were made by Australian competitors returning from the Munich Games brought that point home to us. I believe that 'God Save the Queen' should not be included in any opinion poll. The newly-found interest of Opposition members in referendums is strange to understand. I do not recall any call for a referendum when it was decided to conscript the youth of the country and send them to Vietnam. Perhaps that was not so important as whether we should retain 'God Save the Queen' I hope the motion is defeated, because I want an Australian national anthem, about Australia, written by an Australian, if necessary. I do not care whether it be a new or old Australian, but certainly I want an anthem of Australian origin and for Australia. 
I sympathise with the honourable member for Maranoa, and I think that all members of this House would express sympathy for the victims of a recent rape and violent attack culminating in the death of a number of people near the New South Wales-Queensland border, in the honourable member's electorate. 
Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware of strong representations by Queensland conservation groups and a number of public minded people for a block of freehold land on Fraser Island, adjacent to the national park at Wathumba Creek, to be acquired by the National Estate and added to that park? Is he aware of the interest of private developers in the area? Can he indicate whether the National Estate task force, which visited Fraser Island recently, has made any recommendation in favour of the Australian Government purchasing this land and handing it over to the Queensland Government as an addition to that national park? 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of retaliatory action taken by the Building Workers Industrial Union in Brisbane against insurance company buildings in protest against the failure of many insurance companies to meet flood damage claims? Can the Minister state whether persons who were insured under the Defence Service homes insurance scheme are being compensated? 
There are some things on which I would have some agreement with the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  particularly in his good wishes to the new Department of Tourism and Recreation. I hope that this Department can achieve so much that it was designed to do. He referred to it as a new Department- 
Mir DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mir Scholes)Ring the bells. (The bells having been rung.) 
I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction: Has his attention been drawn to shortages of cement for the building trades? Has he received complaints that while supplies of local cement are in short supply in Queensland, cement from interstate sources is more readily available at higher prices? Is there any evidence that cement is being sold interstate rather than on the local market because of the higher price  available, taking into account the additional cost of freight and other factors? 
I am sure that most of us would greet with pleasure the latest statistics on registrations for employment and would have noted the decrease in the numbers of people registered as seeking work. I agree, however, that there are quite obviously pockets with what we would call more unemployed than are found on average throughout the country. It appears that in those areas there is a need for a number of steps to be taken. I know that the 170 officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service under the responsibility of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  are doing something towards solving this problem by way of providing adjustment assistance, retraining programs and the like. There is one aspect which has not yet been covered to which I understand the Minister for Labour is giving his attention. I refer to the ways in which assistance may be given to people who find that they need to shift from one area to another to continue in their employment. For the average worker to shift with his family and his furniture can involve him in a cost ranging from $300 to $500 depending on how far he must travel, how large is his family and how much furniture he takes with him. But it seems that $300 to $500, as an average, is about the amount required by the average person to shift. This expenditure can cause a big drop in his income in the year in which he shifts. Of course, such a person has an alternative of remaining on unemployment benefit until he can find suitable employment near where he is residing. 
But I believe it is more economical and a wiser use of labour if he can be assisted to transfer. 
House adjoined at  11  p.m. 
