I will try to speak above the noise of the attendants as they bring in the sludge pumps to pump out the venom that is flowing across the floor of the House. That I can rise in this place to address myself to the current debate is at one and the same time a tribute to the hundreds of dedicated workers right across the Forrest electorate and a resounding expression of condemnation of the Government by a clear majority of the electors of Forrest. Therefore I have on the one hand to thank all those who contributed in any way to the success of our cause and on the other to express for them in the strongest possible terms the censure that my election to this place represents for the Government's involvement in the fighting in Vietnam and for its neglect of the whole of rural Australia. 
I wish to place on record the fact that I contested Forrest first in 1966 on the issues of our involvement in the Vietnam war and of conscription. I did so hoping to force the result to a distribution of preferences against a Minister of the Government in what was regarded as a safe antiLabor seat. On that occasion I was endorsed only 6 weeks before the election and I failed to achieve the demonstration of public feeling that was sought. However, believing that our cause was right and that the Government should be embarrassed Into reversing its policies, with a Minister being defeated or forced to a distribution of preferences, I sought endorsement immediately after the 1966 election. Due to the untiring efforts of  Senator Wilkinson,  who became our campaign organiser, and the efforts of members and supporters in Forrest, we succeeded not in forcing the Minister for Shipping and Transport to a distribution of preferences, as we had hoped in 1966, but in defeating the Minister for External Affairs. Of course, that it should be the Minister for External Affairs who was defeated was not due to our campaigning on Vietnam involvement primarily but to the whim of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in that he demonstrated his appreciation of the place of external affairs in overall importance by sliding this portfolio down from fourth place to twelfth place in Cabinet ranking. 
It is only since the election defeat of my predecessor that we have had more fully disclosed the Prime Minister's grasp of the importance and place of the Department of External Affairs. Firstly he caused the portfolio to become available by following the practice of Robert Gordon Menzies of removing from Parliament men of superior talents so that his own hold on the leader ship might be protected. On that occasion his portfolio was slid down the scale from fourth place to twelfth place so that it would more closely fit the person chosen to handle it. Now, having lost his Minister because of the Government's vulnerability in this area, the portfolio is slid up the scale as a sop to the dispossessed former Treasurer, who is now the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  In other words, the Prime Minister uses this all important portfolio at his whim with no regard for the effect on the Department or its morale. 
It is because of the way in which the Department is used as a pawn in the Prime Minister's game of chess with the nation's departments and because of the Government's lack of suitable men, following the practices of Menzies and the right honourable gentleman, that I believe the people of Forrest have expressed their concern by defeating the former Minister for External Affairs. However in saying that I must hasten to add that they have at the same time indicated that they no longer support the bungling defence and foreign policies of this tired, divided, lost and hapless coalition, but instead have consciously opted for a united, positive, virile and progressive movement, which does have due regard for the importance of external affairs and defence, including, I am sure, the posting of career diplomats to all embassies and consulates. 
My electors, I am sure, deplore the fact that a coalition that is a conglomeration of ginger groups, mushroom clubs, caterpillar clubs, Rhodesian lobbies and other factions can govern though it collectively received a vote that was 6% less than that received by the Australian Labor Party alone. My electors deplore the state of affairs that exists when a party given the task of governing is consciously emasculated to the point where, according to the inferences to be drawn from the actions of that party, no fit person remains to lead it and in desperation one has to be brought from the other place to assume the Prime Ministership. That a man of the capacity of the former member for Adelaide could feel confident of becoming Minister for Defence and eventually Prime Minister, because his modest assessment of the talent offering was such that he could come to no other conclusion, in itself should be judgment enough. My electors have expressed their rejection of the blunders that have been made in the field of defence, especially with the FI 1 1 fiasco and scandal. They have expressed their abhorrence of our Vietnam involvement and their dismay at the fact that, to appease certain pressure groups in the community, the Government should make criminals of otherwise law abiding citizens and unnecessarily disrupt and destroy the lives of fine young Australian men. 
The present Government has not only failed the nation in the important areas I have mentioned; it has also been responsible for the development of the worst crisis in the rural sector of this nation for more than 30 years. In my electorate, which is wholly rural, I see on every hand the need for decisive Government action. At the same time I see the results of the abdication of responsibility by governments, both State and Federal, with the resultant uncertainty and distress that this causes. I have within my electorate the greatest proportion of milk producers, potato growers, apple and pear growers and fine wool growers in the whole of Western Australia. I also represent beef producers, fat lamb producers, stone fruit growers, coarse grain growers and other primary producers. I have, too. the honour of representing miners of coal, bauxite, tin. titanium and other minerals, timber workers and so on. The main outlets for the produce of the electorate are the ports of Albany and Bunbury, together with the smaller port of Busselton, which does not have the use made of it that it is capable of providing. 
My electorate is urgently in need of some indication of Government policies and immediate intentions in the fields of direct concern to it. For example, the port of Albany provides an outlet for the produce of the whole of the Great Southern region of Western Australia and draws wool from as far east as Esperance. Albany possesses a natural harbour that has been used since the beginnings of Australia's history and it has had grow up around it a hinterland of great importance to the State. Woollen mills have been established to process some of the locally grown wool and in recent years the local people have built Albany up as a centre for wool selling to a point where a wool selling season means within the vicinity of $750,000 to the town. That sum is made up in this way: The annual wages bill for the wool stores, $500,000; wool stores annual operational expenses, $100,000; extra accommodation and meals for valuers, buyers, brokers, etc., attending sales, $42,000; cartage of wool from store to 67 wool ships, $5,000; waterside labour for wool shipped from Albany $60,000; plus port ancillary services such as mooring, launches, tug crews, wages, laundry, doctors, dentists, chemists, hospital and taxis, $22,000; ships' personnel spending, including victualing, $20,000. 
These are only two of many instances of locally sponsored decentralised industries. It does not require, nor are the people requesting, government action to establish industries. However, because of the advent of containerisation Government intervention is required to give guidance and to protect what is already established. Surely,  Sir, the  responsible Minister, or one of the 3 Ministers who could be concerned, could make a definite statement that Albany will continue to be used as the port for the export of wool, primarily, but also of other products of the Great Southern region. Here is an opportunity for the Country Party Ministers, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  or the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  to demonstrate the genuineness of their Party in acting on behalf of rural interests. I suggest that they would be better off making no statement at all than to re-assert the Liberal Party solution as expressed by my predecessor and a former Minister for Shipping and Transport. To increase rail freights between Albany and Fremantle is not an answer. Farmers are suffering enough from the effects of the cost price squeeze without Liberal members making such suggestions in relation to what is a perplexing problem in the area. On the contrary I ask them to make arrangements with the Scan-Austral line of ships to call regularly for wool and other cargoes, or for the Minister for Shipping and Transport to see that the Australian National Line enters the AustraliaEurope trade to service Albany and similar ports. 
A second example from my electorate is the port of Bunbury, servicing a region which includes all the mineral areas of my electorate, most of the timber areas and, of course, a large part of the rural sector. The Bunbury and Collie regions are at the point where they can truly blossom, given the benefits of a deepened harbour and _ entrance channel, and the provision of a new port and port servicing facilities. I believe that the Federal Government provided funds for improvements for the port of Newcastle in 1962 and that those improvements have more than paid for themselves in the resultant streamlining of port handling. I am strongly of the opinion that money given to speed up the completion of the port works at Bunbury could be of immeasurable value to the Bunbury.CoIIie region. Increasing employment opportunities would result for local people, including farmers who might choose to leave the land if able to obtain suitable work in their own region. 
I believe the Minister for Shipping and Transport should have acted earlier to provide the funds necessary to expedite the work in Bunbury by combining with the Western Australian Government to bring into operation Australian built dredges, which are lying idle, to undertake the work to be done. Since that was not done I believe the Minister should offer his assistance to see that the work is carried out as quickly as possible. Perhaps he could provide the actual port facilities required to release the major obstruction in the way of rapid development in that depressed rural region. Alternatively, perhaps he could have the Australian subsidised dredges operate in cooperation with the South Korean dredge, provided that the Commonwealth Department of Immigration allows the work to proceed. 

 Sir, I want to impress upon the Government that there is urgent need for resolute Government action in the area of the Forrest electorate; action along the lines of the dairy rationalisation scheme which was to have been implemented 3 years ago but which still is only talked about; action to implement a sound wool selling scheme; action to find new markets for our fruit and potato growers; and action to bring new confidence into the region. If the Government is not going to give a lead to the farmers in my electorate in order to assist them to stay in the industry then it should provide rehabilitation schemes similar to that which operated after the last war to provide the nation with the tradesmen and professional men that it needed. It should act to improve and protect the ports of Bunbury and Albany, perhaps by directing all grain grown in the middle to lower wheat belt through Albany while containerised cargoes pass through the port of Fremantle. It should ensure that Bunbury receives the same favourable assistance already given to the port of Newcastle in order to stimulate the Western Australian coal fields and surrounding areas. 
I have endeavoured to make constructive proposals as well as to point out that this Government does not have the confidence of the people so that while it ebbs out the remainder of this Parliament it may consider ways of stimulating what is a very important section of this nation. Besides the things mentioned in this speech I have endeavoured to arrange for exploration of the possibility of selling apples in bulk to Singapore from the orchards of Forrest. I have written to the Minister for External Affairs asking him to do what he can to give assistance to protecting and encouraging the sale of seed potatoes to Ceylon. 
In conclusion,  Sir, I  wish to emphasise the point 1 made earlier - that the electors of Forrest have expressed their opinion about where this Government should go. In doing so they have been at one with the majority of electors, to the extent of over 200,000, and they have contributed to the 6% surplus which the Australian Labor Party had over the combined total of the factions which constitute the fine body opposite. Results of by-elections in Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales suggest that an election today would give the Australian Labor Party occupancy of the Government benches in spite of preferential voting. We residents of Forrest are distressed at the blunders made in the fields of defence and foreign affairs. We are equally disturbed at the present conditions in rural Australia and the apparent ineptitude of the Government. We look forward to the new Parliament even though it may not contain the present Minister for External Affairs - yet another to hold that portfolio - the present honourable member for Phillip  (Sir William Aston),  or the one remaining Liberal from my State. In spite of those losses we of the Australian Labor Party look forward with keen expectancy since we shall occupy the Treasury benches under the credible and stimulating leadership of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and our superior front bench. 
l  ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees with his friend the honourable member for Boothby that 20 years of Liberal-Country Party Government have produced a Communist society in Australia? If the Prime Minister does agree, would he say that the honourable members most diligently working as undercover agents to that end have been the honourable members for Evans, Mackellar, Moreton and his friend and colleague from Lilley? If the Prime Minister does not agree with the honourable member for Boothby, does this mean that that honourable member speaks only for one of the many segments of the Liberal-Country Party coalition? In either case does, the Prime Minister not agree that Government failure or impending failure is implied? 
Last night 1 informed the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  that 1 intended to complain about the provision of an office for my use in Bunbury, a town within my electorate. I regret having to raise this matter, which is extremely parochial, but I do so because my patience has been exhausted. My success at the election held almost 6 months ago was apparent as early as 2 or 3 days after the election. At that time I informed officers of the Department of the Interior that I would require an office in my electorate in the town of Bunbury. I confirmed this requirement with the Department only a few days later when my predecessor conceded defeat. The choice of site was made on the afternoon of 7th November, following the declaration in Bunbury of the poll for Forrest. An officer of the Department, accompanied by  Senator Wilkinson  and me, inspected available office space and we decided upon the desired site that afternoon. 1 admit that some short delay in starting on the building may have been caused when I learned that a Liberal Party senator had applied for an office adjoining my proposed office. However, this could have caused no delay in ordering equipment laid down for provision to members of Parliament. In any event the uncertainty was very short lived. It was due to my experience of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices in Perth, where one can hear normal conversations conducted in adjoining offices on all sides of any office. However, the ownerbuilder of the office block assured me that the offices would be satisfactorily soundproofed. I sent a letter dated 8th December to the Department s ating that I desired the office chosen on the day of the declaraion of the poll. It was not until 6 weeks after writing that letter that ministerial approval was received. The Minister having spelled yes to the request at the average rate of one letter of the alphabet per fortnight, the matter could then proceed to the Executive Council. Executive Council approval had to wait a further 2 weeks and was not given until 9th February of this year. Work was then able to proceed quickly, the only delay occurring towards the end of the work because funds had been released for all building and furnishing requirements except the provision of carpet. 
I sent a telegram to the Minister seeking an immediate release of funds to allow the job to be completed. I had earlier requested that the office be ready for occupation when Parliament resumed on 3rd March. In fact, the construction work, carpet laying and other work was completed by the weekend preceding 3rd March. My secretary moved from Perth, where I had been using a temporary office which involved me in two trips a week each of 250 miles in order to deal with mail and other matters. But upon inspection I found that my office was far from ready for occupation. In fact, if I had not had a most understanding and dedicated secretary I could have been faced with a staff walk-out. We had telephones, due solely to the efficient service given in the Bunbury region. But although it had been known for 5 months that I would require an office and all those things prescribed as equipment for parliamentary offices, I had only a stationery cupboard, a coat rack, a bookcase and a crate of glass. My secretary could hang up her coat and lay down her purse, but she had no chair, no table, no photocopying machine and, worse, no typewriter. Fortunately we had the crate of glass for my secretary to sit on and on which to sit her old portable typewriter to do all her work. Of course, further equipment arrived in the first week - we received our fans and our radiators. Still at that point we had not 1 chair, 1 table, a copying machine or, again, a typewriter. 
Although that had been the situation after 5 months, I did not raise the issue. The reason I raise it now is because I am faced with having to employ a girl part time to catch up with the work that has accumulated since my secretary has had to work with a small very inferior typewriter which will type only 3 readable copies at a time, even when set on the table which has since arrived. However, we still urgently need a chair for my secretary, a photo-copying machine and a typewriter. We have required these things right from the time of the election, nearly 6 months ago. The inconvenience suffered defies imagination and therefore the handicap we have borne in endeavouring to serve an electorate in which there has been a tremendous lack of service in the past is hard to appreciate. 
The delay that has caused me and my electorate so much inconvenience in this matter differs only in degree from the inconvenience and uncertainty which face my electors in the matters of shipping and transport insofar as Albany and Bunbury are concerned and in the field of primary industries, especially, although far from exclusively, in the dairying sector, with the unfulfilled promise of dairy rationalisation. I suppose that taking the matter in the perspective of Country Party administration 1 have no complaint at all, because for 3 years, without apparent result, the dairy farmer has been promised dairy rationalisation to correct a situation brought about by his 20 years of progressive economic decline under this Government. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  announced 3 years ago that containerisation was to bring about a revolution in shipping, resulting in cheaper freights and cost-free feeder services from outports, but one of the major ports in Western Australia is still waiting for some definite word from this Government as to what containerisation is going to mean to it. Although these things have developed under a Country Party administration, I cannot allow a similar situation to develop in my office. I have a mountain of work to do and it is laid down that I shall have the equipment with which to do it. I have waited 6 months and I do not intend to wait 3 years with no end in sight, as have my dairy farmers and the people of Albany. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the cost of purchasing or manufacturing a standard type container. 
What is the life expectancy of an average container. 
asked  the  Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What quantities of (a) rice, (b) cocoa, (e) coffee, (d) copra and (c) other crops were grown in New Guinea and Papua in each of the 5 years prior to the relinquishment of office by his predecessor. 
What are the annual figures for these products since he assumed bis present portfolio. 
What quantities of rice were imported into Papua and New Guinea in each of the periods referred to in (1) and (2). 
How much of the produce of Papua and New Guinea comes from land owned and worked by indigenes. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What quantity of wool has been transported from 
Adelaide to Melbourne; and 
Brisbane to Sydney since the introduction of containerisation. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he make available to the Port of Bunbury, Western Australia, assistance on the same scale as that given to the Port of Newcastle, New South Wales, in 1962. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say why the Port of Albany is not being included as a victualling and bunkering port for the Japanese fishing fleet. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he explore the possibilities of providing cool-store facilities in Ceylon to enable potato seed to be preserved from time of arrival until planting. 
Will he encourage the trade in seed potatoes from Western Australia to Ceylon as a positive step towards increasing Ceylon's self-sufficiency in food production. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Government is to transfer airport land to the Gold Coast City Council. 
If so, what is the value of the land concerned. 
Does the Government intend to pay half iiic cost of a terminal planned for Coolangatta. 
If so, what is the expected cost. 
Is the Government to guarantee the main runway at Coolangatta for 7 years and other movement areas for 10 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Government assist the Bunbury Town Council to provide an airport of the standard required for passenger services. 
As the airport has been brought up to what were Department of Civil Aviation standards at the lime of construction by (he Council, would the D.C.A. bear the total cost involved. 
As I have said before, my electorate is a rural electorate that covers quite a variety of farming activities ranging from butter fat production, which has been providing very low returns to the farmers, to coarse grain growing and fruit production. During the last 20 years the State and Federal LiberalCountry Party governments have been going to the electors not only with the red bogey but also with the claim that they have been responsible for the development that has taken place in Australia, even though Australia is a young country and had to develop, especially given the long period of relative peace that has existed since the Second World War. They have claimed that this was something for which they were directly responsible. Both the Liberal Party and the Country Party have claimed credit for it. collectively and separately. 
However, this development and this growing prosperity have occurred at the same time as farmers in my area, particularly those producing butter fat. have seen a continuous decline in returns over the period of 20 years whereas those in other forms of farming enjoyed for a time some semblance of prosperity or relative prosperity. But now they have come to the stage where they too are suffering from the consequences of lack of action and lack of policy on the part of the Liberal-Country Party Government. The interesting thing out of all this is the development that has taken place within my electorate in Western Australia in the last month. In the Press about a month ago, under the heading 'Move to form policy committee*, the following item appeared: 
The convention yesterday voted unanimously for the WA Liberal Party's rural committee to be replaced by an agricultural policy committee. 
The report states that the: 
. secretary of the Bunbury branch of the Young Liberals and senior vice-president of the Liberal Party's Bunbury branch, said in proposing the motion that, with the Country Party holding the Agricultural portfolio, Liberals were getting blamed for the inefficiency of the Country Party and the Minister for Agriculture.  lt continues: 1  for one do not propose to work for the 
Liberal Party in order to get stabbed in the back by the Country Party', he said. 
Some people might be surprised that the Libera) Party had a rural committee, he said. It was certainly not an active organisation. 
The agricultural policy committee would be responsible for determining WA's agricultural requirements in the Federal sphere and for forming State agricultural policy for submission to the State Liberal Party. 
There we find that at this late stage, when things had reached a state of crisis, the Liberal Party in Western Australia - at least the Young Liberal Party as can be seen from that article - has seen the need to look for a policy, to begin developing a policy. The Liberal Party is going to shove all the blame over on to the Country Party and say that that Party is directly responsible because it has been left to handle this matter and to develop the policy for the Government in the past. However, this does not concern the Young Liberals only. Last weekend the Liberal Party had its Forrest divisional meeting. The 'West Australian' of today's date states: 
The Liberal Party will announce a rural policy before the next general election. 
It is going to get one cooked up in this time: 
This assurance was given by State president Peter Durack. . . . 
The agenda contained three resolutions demand-' ing that the Government announce a rural policy. 

 Mr Durack said: 'The Premier recognises that in the past there has been a tendency to leave rural policy to the Country Party. 
It has been decided that there will be a special Liberal Party rural policy.' 
One of the motions put forward was amended to read that the Party should not make a pact with the Country Party before an election and that if one was made after an election the agriculture portfolio should go to the Liberals. Here we can see the state that exists between and within these two parties. Previously the parties were willing to claim the credit for the natural development that took place in this country. But now that they have reaped disaster through their inactivity, their unconcern and, according to the Liberals, through their complete lack of a policy, the Liberal Party now turns on the Country Party. These people who preach loyalty, friendship, trust and all those fine things now turn on their colleagues because of the situation that exists. They try to gain capital from this situation and hope to win seats from the Country Party. They are hoping to have Liberals returned in what have been traditional Country Party areas. They are springing upon their colleagues to suck their blood and destroy them. They hope to form a policy to do this. In 1970 the Liberal Party hopes to form a rural policy to put to the people. I think here we see cause to condemn the Liberal Party and to condemn this Government, because the Party has admitted tacitly that it has failed to produce a policy and that it had not grasped the position until the position had reached crisis point. All the Liberal Party is endeavouring to do is to save itself at the expense of those who have kept it in office for 20 years. This is not good enough. I should like to take down into my electorate members of my Party so that they can see the conditions that exist, the conditions that have caused members of the Liberal Party to realise that there is a crisis in the country. If people in the city suffered the conditions under which people in the country live, their houses would be condemned. It would be said that they were living in slums. There would be great activity to find the answer to their problems, to provide better housing for them and to cover up for the conditions under which they were living. 
Only in this week's 'Countryman' it was said that there are people in the country living in houses where there is no running water; where there is nothing but a hole underneath the lavatory - there is not even a pan system - where there is no electricity; and where the people cannot afford telephone services because of this Government's policies. They live in the most deplorable conditions. Many of these people have not had a sufficient education because their parents were unable to afford to pay for hired labour while they attended school. The wives and children have had to work. As soon as the children have turned 14 years of age they have been taken away from schools and they have been forced to carry on with the family farm. 
Of course, to give the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  his due, he has recognised that this situation exists, and he has devised the dairy rationalisation scheme which he said, 3 years ago, would be implemented within weeks. Under this scheme he said he was going to release $250m, I think, over a period of 3 years in order to rationalise the dairy industry. I wrote to the Minister last December, and in late January I received a letter from him saying that an important meeting was to be held in Sydney on 4th February and that out of that meeting would come the necessary decision to allow a Bill to be introduced into this House. Today he said that another important meeting is taking place and that after it is concluded a Bill will be introduced within a few days. He has been saying this for a period of 3 years, and he has been saying it in the face of the conditions which I have described. If the Government is to wait until other farmers are living under the conditions which I have described before it acts, and if it acts with the same speed and resolution, I feel very much afraid for the people who live in country areas, for the people whom I represent and who have been very badly served by this Government. These people now see that the earlier situation arose as a result of a natural course of events that took place under Liberal-Country Party governments, for which they tried to take credit in the early stages, and that the present situation has arisen as a result of a natural course of events. The members of the Liberal Party realise that this is the position and they are looking desperately for a policy in order to save themselves at the expense of their own colleagues. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for De  fence, upon notice: 
What sums are involved in the F111 project in respect of (a) purchase of spares, etc., (b) aircraft storage costs and (c) payments for the aircraft to this date. 
What would be the cost of cancelling the contract at this time. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Do grants for homes for the aged available to shire councils attract the $2 for one grant from the Commonwealth if the shire moneys have been raised from loans. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth departments are represented in Bunbury, Western Australia. 
How many departments are housed in (a) Commonwealth-owned and (b) rented offices. 
What rent is paid for office space each year. 
When does the Government intend to house all departments in Commonwealth buildings in Bunbury. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
What settlement for Bougainville land was arranged for the people of Bougainville before the uprising in that area. 
What arrangement was made between the company mining on Bougainville and the people of that place. 
What positive benefits flowed from the police intervention on Rorovana. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior,  upon notice: 
What. Commonwealth departments have offices in Albany. 
How many of these offices are housed in Government buildings. 
What is the cost of rent for offices in other than Government buildings. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) Army, (b) Royal Australian Air Force and (c) Royal Australian Navy personnel are at present stationed in Vietnam. 
What are the relative figures for each year since Australia became involved in Vietnam. 
What has been the estimated cost of Vietnam involvement each year since our entry into the war. 
How many Australians have lost their lives in Vietnam or as the result of fighting there, and how many of these were conscripts. 
How many Australians (a) have been wounded and (b) suffered permanent disability as a result of wounding, and how many of these were conscripts. 

 - Mr Speaker, the advantages that are to be brought into effect by the introduction of the National Health Bill 1970 are accepted by the Opposition. We applaud the Government even despite its late arrival at the understanding that these things are essential. We are pleased to see that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  obviously has been converted to the view that his outworn and outdated scheme needs overhauling and replacing. I remember hearing the Minister some years ago argue that the National Health Act did not need any alteration and that it was the best in the world. To back up his argument, he said that this could be proved because between 85% and 90% of the people eligible to be members of medical and hospital benefit schemes were members of those schemes. 
As one who is aware of the plight of people on low incomes, I know that many of these people belong to health schemes because they dare not remain outside them. These people belong to hospital benefit schemes not because they cannot afford the payments, not because they agree with their purpose but because they fear the cost of hospitalisation, medical care and so on without the protection of the private health funds. These people are not members of the funds of their own choice. They are not members because they agree with the scheme. They are members because they dare not run the risk of becoming ill and having no coverage. 
The Government's health scheme has been proved by the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, commonly known as the Nimmo Committee, to be run down, ramshackle and in need of complete replace- ment. The Government, before the last House of Representatives election, introduced a Bill to amend the National Health Act. From the Act, the Government took 1 small section. From that 1 section, the Government took a small part and introduced legislation based on that part. This was done to give the impression that the Government was acting quickly on the report of the Nimmo Committee. But the Minister for Health himself has said in this session that to take 1 section of the National Health Act and to introduce legislation amending that section would be completely irresponsible. He said that the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee had to be taken as a whole or not at all. The fact that the Minister took 1 part of the Act and introduced legislation to amend one third of that part in the last Parliament shows, from his own argument, that he had been irresponsible. The spaciousness of his argument for the maintenance of the old scheme has been shown also. 
I think that the Government's introduction of the idea of the subsidised medical scheme is to be commended. I believe that the people who will benefit from its introduction have been greatly in need of just this service for as long as this health legislation has operated. However, this Bill does not cover sufficient people. Because of the cost of living and the strains upon those on low incomes, the qualification governing those who are eligible to benefit under the scheme should have been set at a higher level. Its operation should have more of a tapering effect. Also, the scheme should take into consideration the number of children in family units. The legislation sets a family unit as being at least 2 persons and no consideration has been allowed for the large family even though the expenses incurred by large families are quite considerable. Also, the legislation does not pay attention to a sufficient degree to the needs of pensioners. The plight of pensioners and the sort of things that can happen to pensioners have come to my notice recently. I was informed by the Collie division of the miner's union in Western Australia that some of its members are single pensioners, widowers and widows, who are in just as tight a financial situation as are family units where there are 2 persons who can benefit under this scheme. Yet, these single pensioners receive no allowance and no consideration is shown to them regarding the expenses which they incur through illness. 
I think that the scheme should have been made to operate with respect to people living in very poor circumstances and who rely for their existence on very small incomes even though these people may be single persons. 1 wish to illustrate a situation that arises. Persons who are on these restricted incomes  -  that is, persons who rely upon pensions - find that when an increase is granted in their pension rate they do not receive the benefit of that increase. This illustration does not apply directly to this measure but it shows the way in which the incomes of these people are restricted and eroded. When a person receiving a pension or in receipt of a payment from a superannuation or some other pension scheme is granted an increase in pension, different instrumentalities come in and take a share of that increase so that in fact some of these pensioners are worse off after they have been granted an increase than they were before that increase was made. 
The miners of Collie have their own superannuation fund. Recently, that fund gave an increase of $1.50 per week to its members. This adjustment was made because of the rise in the cost of living since the previous adjustment. The Housing Commission of Western Australia, when it discovered this increase, raised by 80c per week its rent charge. I take as an illustration the case of a man and wife who are members of this fund. They were required to meet this increase in rent. As well, this man was receiving a 10% repatriation pension. Following the increase, the Repatriation Department reduced his repatriation pension by 34c per week. The Department of Social Services reduced the pension received by his wife by 50c per week. This man had received $1.50 per week extra to help him meet the increased cost of living, but $1.64 per week was taken from him. So, he was worse off. Allowance is not made in this legislation for this sort of thing and for these people to qualify for the benefits of this National Health Bill. 
I believe that a need exists to bring within the scope of this health scheme persons who are single and who are at the level which has been laid down by the Government with respect to its subsidised medical scheme. I believe that the allowance ought to be given also to other persons included in the family unit. Further assistance must be given to people with large families. Preventative measures must be taken to see that people in circumstances of poverty, in lower income brackets or in areas where people are grouped together on low income have available to them measures to help prevent them becoming ill. More consideration should be given to these people in legislation introduced in this Parliament relating to health and social services. 
Lastly, I wish to make a plea for chiropractors, phsyiotherapists and people of this kind who at present are not recognised under this legislation. I ask that some measure or means of recognition be granted to those who are qualified in these fields. Bona fide chiropractors and physiotherapists should gain recognition. People who cannot receive the assistance that they require from medical practitioners and who may be directed by medical practitioners to these people for services should have the charges that are incurred met by some provision introduced by Commonwealth legislation. They should benefit under the medical and hospital benefits scheme. I commend the Government for coming - though reluctantly and belatedly - to the point where today we have this legislation before us. 1 look forward to the time when, after the next Federal election, the Australian Labor Party will be able to introduce the scheme which it has made known to the people during the last election campaign and in the last few years and which it is its intention to introduce. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Will the right honourable gentleman confirm that he at one time avoided an official function, or official functions, while on an official visit to Bali, in Indonesia? Is it correct that the right honourable gentleman failed to attend the celebration of the Japanese Emperor's birthday, even though he had accepted an invitation to attend at the Japanese Embassy for that purpose? Does the right honourable gentleman treat Asian authorities alone with such scant regard or is this typical of his behaviour as the Prime Minister of this country? 
I rise, agreeing with what the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  has said about the way in which this debate has been handled. I hope to handle it in much the same way. However, I think he only needs to read the amendment moved to know against whom the allegations are made. For that purpose I shall read the amendment which was moved to the motion by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mat the paper be noted. 
The amendment reads: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial seas and continental shelf. 
The opening words are the words which indicate who is being censured. Those words are: 'that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment'. I believe that this question needs to be brought into context. I believe that, if we examine it as an isolated incident- as one occasion on which the veracity of the Prime Minister and his Cabinet has come into question - we fail to see the thing in its true perspective. I believe that one of the colleagues of the Prime Minister has been treated in exactly the same way as former colleagues and present colleagues have been treated in the past. I remember very well the way in which my predecessor was repudiated by the Prime Minister purely for the purpose of mollifying the opposition being received from the Democratic Labor Party and to gain the support of that Party in the last federal election. This was the way in which he treated a loyal and faithful colleague, and that was no isolated incident. 
We remember that the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairhall,  found it necessary to resign and gave as his ground ill health. When pressed, he said that one has on occasions to tell slight untruths to save a cause. That man resigned because of the stand taken by the Prime Minister and because of the way in which he felt he had been affronted. He felt that he had been repudiated and not taken into the confidence of the Prime Minister. Then of course we had the announcement after the federal election in November last year that the Treasurer had been sacked. 
Yes,  Sir. However  1 believe that to get the amendment into context we need to see that this is not an isolated incident. 
. that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States 
It does not deal with any other matter. 
Yes,  Sir. We  have had illustrated and demonstrated here throughout this day that the matter before us is one in which a former Minister has stated quite categorically that he gave an undertaking to State Ministers and Premiers and that he had no doubt that that undertaking was given and that it was understood. That has been supported by State Ministers and State Premiers. We have against that the explanation given by the Prime Minister in which he plays with words, takes sentences out of context, and tries to show by a close examination of the wording of those sentences that something was meant other than what appears even from a careful reading. 
I believe that the Parliament has had demonstrated to it in this matter that is before the House the unfitness of the Prime Minister for the office which he holds. I find myself in rather strange company in asserting this. One would expect that the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition in this place, would make assertions of this kind and that the Australian Labor Party would be alone in supporting the amendment that has been moved; yet that is not so. I find myself in the same company as  Mr Fairbairn, Mr Dudley  Erwin,  Mr Kevin  Cairns and the State Executives of the Queensland branch of the Liberal Party of Australia. At one time or another those people and this organisation have said that they cannot serve under the Prime Minister because they cannot accept his word and he does not enjoy their confidence. If you had allowed me to continue along the lines to which I adverted earlier,  Sir, I  would have been able to show that the issue before the House is a further incident in a chain of incidents which are in keeping with one another and which deserve the support of honourable members opposite for the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  on behalf of the Opposition. 
I appeal to members of the Government parties to examine the statement made by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  last Friday as well as the statement he made today. He said in quite deliberate terms that an undertaking was given to the States and that they understood fully that further discussions would take place before any legislation was introduced in this Parliament. That would be the understanding of anybody in this country. It has been pointed out that on other occasions the introduction of certain legislation into this Parliament has been delayed for 3 years because it has had to be hammered out between the States and the Commonwealth. The reason for the delay was that the discussions in connection with that legislation had to be brought to a conclusion before it could be introduced. It is only natural that before legislation which affects the States is introduced into this Parliament discussion would take place with the States in connection with it and that discussion would be carried through to its conclusion. What sort of situation would arise if legislation were permitted to be introduced into this Parliament upon which considerable and detailed discussion between the Commonwealth and the States had still to be had. This discussion could culminate in the need to introduce amendments to the legislation as different stages are reached in the discussion? 
Is the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill to be passed by the Parliament and then a few months later when agreement is reached with, say, Western Australia about a particular point will an amendment be moved? When agreement is reached with, say, Queensland after further discussion will a further amendment be introduced? The Prime Minister and the Government know that these things are cleared up before the legislation is introduced. They would know also that this would be in the minds of the Ministers for Mines and the Premiers of the various States. Those people would know that if further discussions were foreshadowed they would take place before the legislation is introduced into the Parliament and becomes law. 
I believe that the House is debating a matter of great importance. It is a matter which tests whether we believe as individuals and as members of the Parliament in maintaining what has been described by the honourable member for Farrer as standards of old fashioned morality. This debate will decide whether these standards are to be the hallmark of government or whether we will have to resort to the situation which has been referred to by some honourable members of taking along an army of lawyers to ensure that each word and each phrase is the cause of no doubt whatsoever. Each phrase and each word will have to be defined before any agreement can be reached and before any progress can be made. That would be a most regrettable stage to be reached in the public life of this nation. Honourable members opposite, especially those who pride themselves upon their moral standards, should think hard and long before they vote against the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. What is required is not that they should abstain from voting but that they should support the Opposition. The Opposition stands to protect the morality of this country, to see that it is seen to be protected and honoured, and to see that we do not take yet a further step away from morality, integrity, truth and good faith. These things of which some honourable members opposite speak so often are now being put to the vote. Those members are morally bound to cross the floor and vote with the -Opposition on this occasion. I believe the people of Australia would expect their members of Parliament to support the amendment and to see that the Parliament is protected and that honour, integrity and good faith are maintained and carried forward in this nation. 
In conclusion I repeat that I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I believe that in the circumstances he has had no choice but to move it. Honourable members ought to show that the stage has not been reached where we play on words to get ourselves out of situations but that we stand by the agreements that we make between one government and another. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether any approach has been made to him by the West Australian Government to preserve the port of Albany as an export port, particularly for the export of wool. Does the Minister know whether such a move has been made? What is being done or has been done by his Department to ensure the protection and preservation of Albany as a port? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What have been the positive achievements of the dairy rationalisation scheme forecast in the Governor-General's Speech in 1968. 
What assistance is available under this scheme for dairy farmers in the electoral division of Forrest. 
This Bill relates just to Western Australia. So, as the Bill stands at this stage, my electorate will benefit more than any other. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has already mentioned the group scheme that started in Western Australia. I believe that there are still many people between Manjimup and Denmark and in the south west corner of the State who suffer from the effects of the group scheme. I refer to those whose parents or grandparents came there from the cities of England, They were enticed to come by the Western Australian Government, through seeing pictures of settled paddocks somewhere other than in the south west. There was no big timber in the pictures. 
They were enticed to go there. They were given an adze and an axe and put into groups to clear the karris and jarrahs of that area. Anyone who has been in that area would wonder that those people started at all. Anyone who has read any of the stories of the times know how many of them committed suicide and how many of them were mentally and physically broken and, therefore, will realise that those who continued were most tenacious and also that they must have overcome tremendous difficulties. As 1 have said, many of the people there are still endeavouring to overcome difficulties. it is true to say that their incomes are as low as those described by the Minister in his second reading speech. It is also true to say that many of them, in an effort to clear the land at tremendous cost, as the Minister also said in his second reading speech, go to work in the timber mills. That means that the wife is left at home to do the work on the farm and that the husband, the wife and the children have to milk the cows before they go to school and work and have to milk again when they come home from school and work. One does not have to have a very good imagination to know that the children as they go through school are never able to realise their true potential. We have a grave social problem in that as soon as some of these children turn 14 or 15 years of age they are taken out of school to go on to the farm because that is all they know. They have not been able to get out of this spiral. 
I believe that this legislation will mean very much. It will give quite a glimmer of hope to people in this situation who want to get out of dairying but at the present time cannot afford to do so. It will also bring a glimmer of hope to those on neighbouring farms who could not without this legislation buy up the farm that is left. They could not, without this Bill, afford to buy the capital constructions or pay for the houses, the dairies or anything else that was on the property that they would not actually require but would have to buy. I believe that the Bill will benefit those who wish to get out of the industry as well as those who will be able to run an economic unit if they are able to. increase their acreage of cleared land. It is "true that some of these farmers are still trying to dairy on the land that was cleared in the group days. Some of them are trying to subsist on areas of about 75 acres of cleared land. This is why they have to work in the mills and do the things that I have described. 
Because of the lateness of the hour I will not say more than that. I repeat that I believe this proposal will be beneficial in assisting people who choose to take advantage of the legislation. I hope that it will be followed by other beneficial legislation which will not take so long to come into this place as has the legislation now before us. I hope also that some thought will be given to rehabilitation schemes for the children who have never been able while living on dairies to develop their true potential and that they may have the opportunities that were given to ex-servicemen after the war to find what they can do in the fields of trades and professions so that they can take a worthwhile and useful place in the community. I hope they will enjoy the benefits that their parents may now be able to enjoy by getting off the farm with some money in their pockets or by taking over a neighbouring farm and so having an economic unit to work on. I look forward to seeing the effects of this Bill. I anticipate that many of the effects will be laudable and I commend the Minister for the quality of his speech and of the Bill and say that the only reservation I have is the length of time it has taken to bring the measure to this point. 
In order to put in the correct perspective what I have to say in this debate I will quote extracts from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  But before doing so I compliment the Minister on the provisions of the Bill as they are laid down in his speech. I think this is a fine first step to be taken in the dairying industry, as has been said by other members of the Opposition. I believe this measure will provide relief to those people who are willing to take advantage of it. There is only one criticism of this Bill and that is a criticism that has already been made - that it has taken so long to come into effect. Bearing that in mind I reiterate that this Bill is worthy of the time taken for it to be presented to Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What advice has his Department given the Government of Western Australia regarding the purchase of vessels for the State shipping service. 
Will assistance be given to purchase Lash ships: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What moneys have been provided by the Commonwealth in the form of (a) loans and (b) grants for port development or improvement since 1950. 
To whom and when were these loans made or grants given. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
At what ports in Western Australia are there facilities for ship-to-shore communications. 
How many of these potts have facilities for use only within their own harbours. 
What plans are in hand for extending shiptoshore communications on the coast of Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a tact that pneumatic shearing equipment has been invented and developed in Western Australia and that this equipment has won the New Implement Award of Merit for Australia and New Zealand' because it represents a significant breakthrough in engineering design. 
Could equipment of the new design bring savings and greater efficiency to those involved in woolgrowing. 
Is he able to say whether the organisers of the Kiev Trade Fair have requested that this pneumatic equipment be demonstrated in the USSR. 
Will the Government recognise the value and merit achieved by the inventors of this equipment by providing a research and development grant or some similar grant to assist production of the equipment for the benefit of farmers and graziers. 
 Having heard the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  say that he is unmarried, I think I. should tell him that when I was a young boy my mother tried to convince me that babies came from under cabbages and gooseberry bushes. Having heard him and knowing his ancestry, 1 would say that he came from a curdled haggis when a lament was being played on the bagpipes. The stuff that he has dished up here tonight is the very stuff that is mixed up and put in a haggis, namely, ground up liver, tripe and heart - offal from animals. 
The honourable gentleman showed us the level of his intelligence when he said that the reason for the difference between his estimate of the time for which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke on one subject and that of one of his colleagues was that his colleague comes from South Ausatralia where the time is half an hour different from that in the eastern States. Apparently he does not realise that watches move at the same pace no matter where one lives in the world. If that is the level of the man's ability, I do not think we need to argue with him very much further. 1 would like to take up one of the points mentioned by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  when he spoke here this evening. He said that the Australian Labor Party was inclined to involve the people in extra costs, that it was inclined to want to bring in certain measures that must cost more. One of bis illustrations of our desire to involve the people in extra costs was that we wished to cause an election to be held over this Budget. The reverse is the case. The Government, by taking the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate out of tandem, involved the Australian people in a cost of about $500,000 each 3 years. So, if we were to cause the holding of an election on this Budget and bring the elections back into tandem again, we would be saving the people of this country at least $500,000 every 3 years. 
Those are not the only arguments, by far, that can be used against this Government. I think the most telling of all could be used against the honourable member for Griffith, who last spoke in this debate and who, because he was moving about the House, 1 thought had left. The two-faced attitude of this Government is amply demonstrated in the area of defence, especially in relation to the war in Vietnam. Perhaps 75% of honourable members on the Government side of the chamber would not have to show their birth certificates if they applied for entry to Sunset Lodge or some other oid persons' home but there is about 25% of them who would. Most of the honourable members comprising that 25% would be of an age which would allow them, particularly if they put on the pressure and in 1 or 2 cases lowered their age, to go and fight in Vietnam, the country which they say is threatened by a war in which they say we should be involved. 
My remarks in this regard apply not only to those who have sought the comfort and protection of this House in spite of their policies; they are directed also to those people I see at the polling booths at election time who hand out cards supporting the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party. When 1 travelled through my electorate on the day of the last election f took with me some recruiting pamphlets which 1 had received from Captain George whom I know and who is with the Army's recruiting section. I gave those pamphlets out to the gentlemen I referred to and told them to tell Captain George that I sent them. I found from inquiries later that not one of them had taken up the offer; yet they had been claiming, seriously, that Australia was being threatened and that we had to have mcn of military age fighting in Vietnam. Their own actions are a refutation of the things that they say. 
 I am here because I believe that we ought not to be involved in Vietnam. I defeated the former Minister for External Affairs on this question at the election. 1 opposed him in a seat which f believed 1 could not hope to win. I did so at my own inconvenience and cost. Yet 1 beat him on this very issue. 1 trailed him by 10,000 votes at the election in 1966 but after taking more time to argue the point 1 defeated him at the last election by 1.054 votes. I think the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  ought to take cognizance of that fact. Enough for the redbaiters and our mock fighters. I strongly support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I believe it deserves the support of the Parliament. I hope honourable members on the Government side of the chamber will show their strong feeling against the Budget, their wisdom and their perspicacity by crossing the floor and voting with the Opposition. Then we can test at the polling booths the real feeling of the Australian people. 
I wish to refer to three main areas of the Budget - social services, primary industry and defence. I hope to show where this country can make savings and where money can be redirected from one area to another - money which has been badly spent by this Government. Like all honourable members, including those on the Government side, I know the plight of people in receipt of social services - the people on low incomes, people with families who. because of sickness or adversity, through invalidity or age, are forced to live on social services only or with social service assistance. It is time the Government took a closer look at the workings of the means test as it affects people with very low incomes or very low savings which prejudice them or disqualify them from obtaining a pension. 
To illustrate ray argument I will refer to three cases out of many, each of them involving people in my own electorate. In Mount Barker, Western Australia, there is the widow of an ex-serviceman who served this country throughout World War II. She receives a pension of $13.25 per week. She has to pay rent of $5 a week. She has been fortunate enough to obtain a Housing Commission home. If her daughter receives an increase in income, although she is only a teenager the widow must inform the Department of Social Services of the increase and may find that there is a reduction in her income. The total income in the house would probably be less than $30 a week, but if there is some slight adjustment in that income it is necessary to notify the Department of Social Services. J am not saying that the pension would be reduced. I am saying that people on such a low level of income and with such small savings accumulated during a lifetime ought not to be subject to a means test, lt should not operate at its present levels. 
I have been contacted by a pensioner couple living in Augusta. The husband was in a government job and is paid superannuation. Recently the Western Australian Superannuation Board examined the payments it had been making in comparison with increases in the cost of living since the previous adjustment was made to superannuation payments. As a result the Board granted an increase of $1.25 a fortnight. Immediately this adjustment was made, 40c a fortnight was taken from the pension of each partner of the married couple, so that they lost 80c of the $1.25 which was estimated to be the adjustment required to compensate for the increased cost of living. 
A similar thing has occurred to a family in Collie. The man concerned has been a soldier and fought for us in a previous World War. He worked consistently as a miner and contributed to a superannuation fund. Recently the Coal Miners Tribunal paid an extra $1.50 a week to miners. When the adjustment was made the State Housing Commission increased the rent of his home by 90c a week, the Repatriation Department reduced his 10% allowance by 32c a week and the Department of Social Services decreased his wife's pension by 50c a week. The result was that he and his wife gained $1.50 a week and lost $1.72 a week. These people are not wealthy. The means test should not operate against them. I believe that the Government should seriously examine the whole social service set up and should remove that sort of penalty from people on low incomes. 
The next matter 1 wish to raise concerns an anomaly which in some respects is understandable. We do not pay social service benefits, except the sickness benefit, to migrants who are not naturalised. This law was enacted having in mind people who choose to come here to live and decide not to become naturalised citizens. I have knowledge of a case of a man who has been in hospital for some time. He may be permanently injured, but while his condition is not considered to be permanent his wife and family can receive the sickness benefit. If it is found tomorrow that he is permanently disabled the sickness benefit will cease and he will have no income at all. Of course, the members of his family are deeply distressed. They have been involved in considerable costs through his sickness and have had no income for some weeks until recently when they obtained the sickness benefit. They are certainly in a state of poverty. f turn to the next subject I wish to raise in the social service field. I believe that something ought to have been done long before this about adjustments in endowment and maternity allowances. Research has been conducted in this country - not of course by the Government - (o estimate the level of poverty. It has been found that about 1 million people are living at an established level of poverty. There arc perhaps two or three million more people who are just above the poverty line. I believe more people are moving into the area of poverty, because in my State, for instance, the State Housing Commission does not try to compete with private owners of homes and there is growing up a far greater demand for State Housing Commission homes than will be met for many years. For instance, in the city one has to have one's name on the list for '5 to 6 years before a Housing Commission home is allocated. In Bunbury, which is a country town, a person has to be on the list for at least 17 months. In Albany, which is another country town, the waiting period is about 2 years. People waiting for Housing Commission accommodation are often forced to live in sub-standard homes. 1 have had people come to mc who were living in places where slugs crept up between the floorboards and the skirting boards, where draughts blew through unrepaired windows and walls and where the landlord had not to carry out other than major repairs but yet could claim the highest rents. A person is very fortunate in country towns in Western Australia to be able to find a house for $20 a week rent. If such a person were on an income of $45 a week and had a child or two I do not know how he could live. The number of people living in these sorts of conditions has increased tremendously in the last few years and is Still increasing. It is time that a very close examination was made of the whole social services setup. Indeed it is time that more was paid to recipients of maternity allowances and endowment. 
I turn from social services to primary industries in rural areas. One of the interesting things which can be compared with the Government's attitude to the war in Vietnam is its attitude to primary industry. Only 2 or 3 years ago Australian Country Party and Liberal Party members used to parade up and down this country claiming thai they were responsible for the progress, the increased productivity, the increased wealth and the affluence of Australia. The reason they gave for this state of affairs was not that we had lived through 20 years of peace; it was not that the ground work had been done after the war; and it was not world conditions that existed during that period. They said it was because of the action they had taken, though action seems to have been the thing most lacking. 
Now, with a sudden turn to adverse conditions, the Country Party says that it is not responsible for the wheat quotas, that it is not responsible for this and that in rural areas. The Country Party says that this is a problem for the industry to sort out. It maintains that what has happened in primary industry is the result of what has happened on world markets and of world conditions, that these things could not be foreseen. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said in this place that anyone who had anything to do with wheat at all could have foreseen this crisis developing 5 years ago and therefore, 1 should say, could have acted. But we find, as only one example, that the Western Australian Government opened up a million acres of land every year well into that 5-year period. The Country Party says that it is not responsible, that the position has nothing at all to do with it and that it is for the industry to decide what to do. 
Conditions in the rural industries of Western Australia are almost unbelieveable. They do not. bear comparison with the conditions that existed 3 years ago. In fact, people in rural areas in Western Australia are distressed. People who are third generation or second generation farmers, whose grandfathers settled the land after the First World War or whose fathers settled the land during the depression or after the depression, now find themselves faced with the decision whether to get off the land and cut their losses - they will not be able to get anything like a reasonable price for their farms - and go into something else. Only this week I was in the wheat areas of Western Australia and I was told by people whom I know very well that whereas they were well and truly established in 1949 they have since seen a gradual decline and now find themselves with a $50,000 debt. It is all right for members of the Country Party to titter. It is all right for them. They sit here and draw their parliamentary salaries. They are here safe and sound from the conditions in rural areas, as they are safe and sound from the Vietnam war. They are protected from it and they take no cognisance of it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Interjections are out of order. 
There is an urgent need for the Government to act to make debt adjustment for farmers. I know that honourable members opposite are talking about this, but it gives me no comfort at all, because 1 remember that for 4 years they talked about the dairy reconstruction scheme which is going to run for only 4 years. If they talk for 4 years about debt adjustment for farmers, it will be too late - all the farmers will be forced off the land. Another point that was brought home to me was that people who have been breeding stud stock - breeding a line which would give Australia some of the best stock in this country - now find that they can get a better price for their stock by selling to the butcher than to their neighbours or to others who want breeding pigs, cattle or sheep. 
One has only to look at the register for stud pigs in Australia from 1966-67 to the present time to find that it is now about one-third of its original size. 
1 may not be a farmer, but if the honourable member came to my electorate and saw farmers who have been labouring under 20 years of LiberalCountry Party Government, he would not want to elect a farmer to this Parliament, either. One of the other things (hat is necessary, 1 believe, is the provision of better educational opportunities for people in country areas - perhaps a higher standard of schools set in the country - although, of course, I am reminded that a farmer, who is Minister for Education in Western Australia, recently tried to downgrade country high schools, and it was only because of the resistance which he met from people in rural areas that he did not take that step. 
It is only by educating farmers' children to lake their places somewhere else in the community that they will be saved from being forced to follow in their fathers' footsteps, like it or not, and reap the result of the mismanagement that we have had here in Canberra in the past. I have seen people on dairy farms whose children have had to get up in the morning to milk the cows because their families could not afford to hire labour. In many cases the children also had to milk the cows at night. They went to school but they were unable to make progress and they had to leave school at 14 years of age. They were forced to leave school at 14 years of age because they made no progress, not having been given the opportunity to make it. Australia has lost untapped, unrealised potential. This is because of the lack of foresight that we have had in Western 
Australia. The Country Party Minister for Education in Western Australia only recently spent $15,000 on building 2 classrooms which were to last a year in an area where it was decided that those classrooms were needed 2 years ago. These people might be all right at farming, but they certainly do not do to well in government. 1 had hoped to have more time to deal with a third matter which I believe is of the utmost importance to this country, and that is the matter of defence. Entering into the subject now, I want to read some words which will tickle the ears and warm the hearts of honourable members opposite because they come from their greatest mentor. When he delivered his policy speech in 1963 the great deceiver said: 
And now wc have arranged, on most favourable terms of cost and delivery, to obtain me American TFX reconnaissance bomber, which our Air Force experts, after extended investigations overseas, declared to be 'the ideal choice for the RAAF', i.e. the best for our purposes, our security-  and note the last part -  and the mcn who will fly them. 
It was  Mr Menzies.  There we saw considered Government action at its best. That action was taken on good advice at election time to protect Australia because it was going to be invaded by Indonesia the next week. As I said, that was in 1963. It is 1970 now. It is just as well the Indonesians did not come, if they were to constitute a serious threat to us. What about the Fill bomber? Honourable members opposite ask us where the money is to come from. One is tempted to ask: Where has it gone? We have not received the FU J aircraft yet but we have the spares for them. The spares cost us $US56m until 28th February this year. Payments to that stage - they have been made at monthly intervals since - amounted to $US220.406m. One wonders what could have been done with that money, for which we have received nothing'. It would be unfair of me not to add that we might not lose the whole amount. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  told us that we might lose only $150m if we did not proceed with the contract. That means that the 1963 election cost us not  only $500,000. lt  cost us $150,500,000 to save the Government in its time of peril. 
Let us look at that other mistake - it is difficult to find a word to describe the magnitude of the error. The Vietnam war has cost Australia $162. 170m in military spending over and above what would have been our normal military spending even with the numbers in the Army being as they are at the present time. Of course, money does not give us the true cost. We have lost 238 regular soldiers and 168 national servicemen, a total of 406 men whose lives will never be restored and whose place in the work force and in the community can never be replaced. Other casualties until 3rd April this year were: battle casualties, 1,134 regular soldiers and 827 national servicemen: non-battle casualties; 400 regulars and 200 national servicemen; a total of 2,560 men. At 31st December 1969 2,112 servicemen from Vietnam were on pensions. Twelve were on special rate TPI pensions, 217 were on the maximum general rate and 947 were on lesser rates. An amount of $100,000 a year is to be paid in pensions to men whose lives have been ruined or who will suffer from some form of disability throughout their lives. That will be a recurring expense. It wm not decrease, but increase. If the war stopped immediately, in 10 years it will have cost Australia $165m, quite apart from the loss to the work force, the loss in human life and the effect it has had upon the families that are left. I contend that this is something which the Liberal Party Government has entered into purely for domestic reasons. 
The Libera) and Country Party Government entered into this war purely for election purposes. The cost of it has been tremendous. Yet we find honourable members in this place saying that they believe in the war, even when they are of military age and could impress upon the Minister their desire to be enlisted even if they were turned down at the base as psychologically unfit. Let us look at the effect of the Vietnam war and conscription upon the Army and upon the Services. In 1964 we were told that we had to have national service training, which has been so costly to us. We had to have it because we could not get sufficient volun teers. Yet the average rate of volunteers for each year from 1961 to 1964 was 11,930 and the average rate at which volunteers were accepted was 3,200. One wonders what has happened to Australian manhood when people who are willing to join the forces are turned down at the rate of about two out of every three. 1 know from personal experience that people who were turned down before national service training was introduced were called up for national service. They were willing to enlist as volunteers but were turned down, but when the system of national service training was introduced they were conscripted. The cost of national service to this country has been $3m per year - a total cost to the present of $18m - plus the loss to the labour force of those men who have been conscripted into the Army. One must take into account that these men were trained, at universities for professions and for trades and were taken out of them just when they were ready to put into practice the things they had been taught. Their careers and lives were interrupted and they had to try to pick up the threads 2 years later. This must be of tremendous cost to Australia and it demonstrates the need for a new approach. 
I have cited figures to show that people were willing to join the forces. What has been the effect of the Vietnam war upon morale? In 1963-64 some 68% of Navy men re-enlisted. In 1968-69 the figure was down to 18%. One does not wonder when one sees the fall of  Mr Chaney, Mr Kelly  and  Mr Chipp  as former Ministers for the Navy, and now the present Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who gets up here and dances on the poop deck and carries on like a jolly tar - which leads one to ask what we should do with him early in the morning. In 1963-64 the Army had a reenlistment rate of 60%. In 1968-69 it had fallen to 47%. In 1963-64 the Air Force had a re-enlistment rate of 61%. In 1968-69 it was 57%. Recruiting costs us $1,836,000 a year or $1,250 per head for everybody who enlists. I believe that that is a misspending of money and that something needs to be done to ensure that we get better value for it than that. Not only have I shown, that the Government has mismanaged this country but that there has been flagrant misspending of funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is being done to alleviate the problems associated with housing following the recent increase in interest rates. 
Has the Minister been approached by the Minister for Housing in Western Australia to work out a united approach to the problem. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in negotiations for trade in wood chips with Japan. 
The matter I want to raise is similar that mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
Unfortunately this matter could not be dealt with over a period of weeks and months. Instead, it had to be dealt with in a very short time, because it involved a death. Last Friday week when I arrived home from Canberra I found that the member for Collie in the State Parliament had been trying to contact me to raise a matter affecting one of his constituents who had been home from the Navy for a week on compassionate leave because his father was. seriously ill and was expected to die. In fact, he died that morning and the young man wished to have his compassionate leave extended to the Monday to allow him to attend his father's funeral and to remain with his mother who that day had collapsed. 
The State member had contacted the Navy authorities in Fremantle and had asked Commodore Ramsay whether the extended leave could be arranged. He was told that it could not. I then tried to contact the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who unfortunately had been delayed on his aircraft and had not then reached Brisbane. However he later ranghis private secretary and was kind enough to have him ring me back and say that he would see what could be done. The Ministers private secretary rang me first at about 4 o'clock Western Australian time - that is about 6 o'clock eastern Australian time - and, after doing considerable work, rang me last at about half past8 or 9 o'clock. That meant that the Minister's secretary was in his office in Canberra at half past 10 or11 o'clock that night. He had engaged the assistance of a  Mr Wilson  in the Department of the Navy who extended himself at that hour of the night to try to make arrangements for this lad to have his leave extended for a few days so that he could look after the affairs of his family, be with his mother and attend his fathers funeral. 
Contrary to what I thought would be the case,I, found that the matter was to be dealt with by Commodore Ramsay. I thought it would have been a matter for the captain of the 'Diamantina', because the lad had been transferred to that ship, or for the officer in charge at Brisbane since that was where the 'Diamantina' was heading. When  Mr Wilson  rang at about half past 8 that night Western Australian time I was referred to Commodore Ramsay. I rang HMAS 'Leeuwin' to see whether 
I could contact the Commodore to find out what arrangements could be made.I was told by the Commodore's secretary that under Treasury regulations the necessary arrangements could not be made, that the Navy was bound by the regulations, that they could not use any initiative and that the lad had to catch the plane at a quarter to one in the morning and be back in Brisbane at the weekend to rejoin his ship. 
Fortunately the Commodore changed his mind in the meantime and rang a message through to the boy in Collie telling him that he would see the boy at 'Leeuwin' and perhaps arrangements could be made to hold him over forI day. The Minister told me this afternoon that that was the case. They intended to allow him to miss the quarter to one plane on Saturday morning and to remain at home until Sunday. This meant that the boy would have had to drive 125 miles to 'Leeuwin' to see the Commodore only to be told when he arrived there that he had been granted a day's grace. Then he would have had to drive 125 miles back that night and have one more day with the family. He still would have missed the funeral and had to drive 125 miles the next day to catch the plane.  His  brother or some other relation would have had to drive him and of course had to drive back again. This involved about 500 miles of travelling for 1 day's extension, when the leave should have been extended for a couple of days to allow him to attend the funeral. The Minister informs me that Commodore Ramsay is an accommodating gentleman. Unfortunately I did not gain that impression. He was attending a boxing match from which he would not distract himself to come tothe telephone.  His  secretary came to the telephone and told me he would ring me back in 2 minutes.I waited for an hour and rang him myself because he had not rung me. He told me he had not seen the Commodore because he could not distract him from the boxing match. This meant that it was 9 o'clock and the lad had to allow himself 3 hours to get to the airport. He had to leave. He was unable to get to Leeuwin to find out what the Commodore intended to do because they ran into fog and only just made the airport in time to catch the plane. What I am appealing for is for officers to be given latitude to use their initiative over these Treasury regulations, to be allowed to give a day or a couple of days grace especially where it involves a funeral or the death of a member of the family. I want to pay tribute to  Mr Liddicoat,  the private secretary to the Minister, and  Mr Wilson  who worked back until such a late hour to assist. 
While 1 am on my feet there are a couple of other matters concerning members of the Army who have both fought in Vietnam. One of them was killed and, since he was in the Army, he must have had a will.  His  affairs had not been cleared up even though a period of more than 12 months had expired since his death. I contacted the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and within 3 weeks the Minister had the matter cleared up. lt should not be necessary for ordinary individuals to contact members of Parliament to get things done when that matter can be cleared up in so short a time when the Ministers gets on to it. The other case is that of a lad who lives in my electorate, is the son of a farmer and is fortunate enough to own a small part of the farm. When he came back from Vietnam and was married he went to the Housing Commission for assistance to buy a home in the town. The Commission told him he did not qualify for State Housing Commission assistance because the area of land that he held was too great. From there he went to the War Service Homes Division but they told him the land he held was not large enough to provide security for a loan, and so he did not qualify under the War Service Homes Act. If he had not contacted his local member of Parliament - and he should not have needed to do this - he would have found himself disqualified by the State Housing Commission and the War Service Homes Division. On the one hand he did not have enough land and on the other hand he had too much. Here again fortunately the Minister was able to assist.  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin sorted the matter out within a couple of weeks. 1 do think there should be some allowance made for people serving this country and that Government officers should be in a position to exercise some initiative and be allowed some latitude to meet the needs of those people who have served this country and probably served it very well. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What airfields in Western Australia conform to Regulation 203 standards. 
How many of these airfields are locallyowned. 
How many have attracted Commonwealth assistance under the Local Ownership scheme. 
What individual amounts have been paid under the scheme in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the situation which has developed in the building industry in Western Australia since interest rates were raised. 
If so, what action is planned to protect those employed in the industry and to avoid a worsening of the crisis which exists in that State. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of the proposed new Army base in Western Australia. 
Is the Collie region being seriously considered as the site for the project. 
When . is a decision likely to be made on the siting. 
When is work likely to commence. 
For bow many servicemen and women is it intended to provide. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the Western Australian Government has made a request for special assistance to meet the desperate situation which exists in drought affected areas in that State. If so, has a decision been made as to what assistance will be granted? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Which electoral divisions are classified as country divisions. 
Which of these divisions are represented by (a) Australian Country Party, (b) Liberal Party of Australia and (c) Australian Labor Party Members. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
For how many years has the Commonwealth made grants to the Slates for Aboriginal housing. 
What amount was granted to each State in each year. 
What amount is available for use in Western Australia in 1970-71. 
Are funds available direct from his Office for local government bodies which desire  to  build homes for Aborigines. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 7i% of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in Income Tax and continue to make such payments. (7J% of all incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavilytaxed sector of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give a boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I believe that- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Question put: 
That the ruling of the Deputy Speaker be dissented from. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
How many approaches have been made by the State Government of Western Australia to the Commonwealth for drought assistance, since 1st January 1969. 
For what specific purposes were the funds sought. 
What amounts have been allocated to Western Australia for drought relief in the past 5 years. 
What other State Governments have sought -Commonwealth drought assistance in the last 5 years. 
For what specific purposes were these funds sought in each case. 
What amounts were allocated in each instance. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas. 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime. 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes, particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper starring and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth : 
Whereas 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honorable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption for non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many applications for Home Savings Grants have been received (a) throughout Australia and (b) in each State in each year since the inception of the Scheme. 
How many of the applications in each State were successful (a) in part and (b) in full. 
I found it interesting to hear the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  putting forward his arguments, particularly as 1 agree with him in part when he said that he believes that we should be looking for China to recognise and protect the neutrality of South East Asian countries. I believe that all countries should aim to protect and recognise the neutrality of other countries and that they should allow them to choose the type of government they want. He said that China should do this with the countries that are her neighbours If this had been done in Vietnam by our allies there would not have been the death and destruction that has taken place in that country. 1 believe also- thai it the figure he gave was correct and the Chinese are spending about $US200m a year in assisting those countries around her, this amount pales into insignificance when compared with the $US2,500m a day which the Americans have been pouring into Vietnam in weapons and men as a result of its rejection of an election to enable the people of Vietnam to chose their own government. This is a mistake which we have made in our foreign policy and defence policy in the past, but I do not intend to follow this up now. 
I want to discuss the question of the money we spend on defence and our policies on defence and to ask whether the moneys we spend are expended wisely and whether what we do in the field of defence is the best that can he done. I want to question whether we are getting value for that which we spend. In doing this I want to question the very thing which the Government takes as its strength or uses as its smokescreen - I am not quite sure which. One of the arguments which we have heard repeated most often in this debate, especially by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  is that so much of what is done is done on the best military advice and that this is something which is not to be questioned. 
I do not want to go back over what was claimed for Singapore and what happened there; I do not want to go back over what was claimed for Gallipoli and what happened there; and I do not want to go back to the attack on Russia by Napoleon in the winter time and to other mistakes which are so self-evident throughout history. But 1 should like to refer to a few things that have happened in America where, I suppose, even better military advisers than our own are employed. 1 refer to the AH56A Cheyenne helicopter, which was part of a helicopter attack system. It was estimated that the helicopters would have a unit cost of between $US3m and $US3.5m. This compares with the $US500,000 unit cost of the current United States Army armed attack helicopter, the AH-IG Huey Cobra. At the end of May 1969 the United States Army terminated the production contract between of default of the contract. In fact, the helicopter was too expensive for its primary role of an anti-guerilla aircraft. To the end of the 1970 financial year, $US321.5m had been spent on the project for which nothing is to be received. Then there is the C5A Galaxy, which is the largest transport ever flown. It has been subject to substantial cost over-runs. Originally 120 aircraft were to have been produced, but a cost over-run of 41 per cent on the first batch of 58 - the total cost was $US950m - led to the reduction of the order to 81 aircraft. As at February, the cost of the 81 aircraft was still being negotiated between Lockheed and the United States Air Force. 
In 1964 the United States Navy decided to proceed with an order to have 48 torpedo ships built at a cost of $US680m. Now the expected cost is $US4,O00m. This is all being undertaken on the best military advice in the United States. It has led the country into some of the greatest debacles that it has ever known. In Australia we have to be careful of the action which we take on our best military advice. We are not to think that this advice is something which cannot be questioned; that it is something hallowed and sacred. I think that the best illustration of this point can be found in a speech which was made on 4th March 1964 by the then Minister for Air, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  At the time he was cutting the then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  down to size. He said: 
I want to answer comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Calwell)  last night in a speech that  Tanged  over many subjects. Referring to the Governor-General's Speech, he said - The Speech refers to the purchase of the TFX bombers as if their delivery were an accomplished fact. There is no hint that their manufacture is meeting difficulties and that we shall be fortunate indeed if they are delivered by 1970. 
Further on he said: 
Had he been listening, he would have heard my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Hasluck),  tell him in this House the other day that there are no major difficulties. Only this afternoon, I was speaking to the head of the Canadair firm, which is one of the major subsidiaries of the General Dynamics Corporation and is making parts for the TFX. 
Of course, the TFX is the Fill. He continued: 
He told me that the corporation is perfectly certain that the TFX will meet its present deadline 
. they are confident that the first flight will be undertaken in December of this year and that we shall be given delivery iia 1967 as promised. 
This is 1970, 3 years later, and of course the aircraft are as far from being delivered now as they were then. Yet the then Minister for Air said that because the then Minister for Defence had said that this would be so, it would be so. I think that we want to be careful about what the present Minister for Defence says at the present time, and not accept what he says as being so merely because he has said it. A few months later, on 25th August 1964, when the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, was speaking he quoted what was said by the then Minister for Defence,  Senator Paltridge,  as follows: 
The latest expert advice available to the Government makes it clear that the Canberra will not begin to be phased out of squadron service until 1970. Doubts about its stated fatigue life have been resolved and it will continue to be a useful operational aircraft.  Iti  the light of advice from its professional advisers, the Government has decided to accept deliveries of FI IIA aircraft in 1968. 
It is very good that the Government decided to accept deliveries of the aircraft in 1968, but it still has not received them.  Sir Robert  Menzies went on to say: 
The estimated total cost to Australia of the 24 aircraft remains at the figure of 56 million announced by  Mr Townley  in November of last year. Current advice from official United States sources is that progress on the project is on schedule, and firm assurances have been given that there is no reason at all to doubt that deliveries will be made to the Royal Australian Air Force in 1968. This is up to date advice and it may be relied on. 
We come to 1970 and we read this in a news item: 
In Washington a Senate sub-committee has reopened a 7-year old inquiry into the Fill fighter bomber. The ABC's staff reporter in Washington, Robin Sharp, said that evidence was given that the swing wing plane could only meet one of tha performance requirements originally demanded of it. Also the cost for each plane had increased from $3.4m to $16m. 
That is in complete contrast to the expert advice and to the assurances which  W9  have been given not only by our military advisers but also by the Government. 
I had wished to deal with the waste of money that has occurred as a result of the Government's policy on conscription and also its policy on Vietnam. I believe that conscription has been a waste not only of money but also of human resources. The policy has achieved only wasteful inefficiency. Also it has made criminals of people who otherwise would have gone through the whole of their lives with unblemished records and would have been a credit to this country. The policy has had an ulterior effect upon our forces because in the 5 years up to the time when conscription was introduced, 60 per cent of tho.se in the forces re-enlisted, but in the 5 years since conscription has been in operation, the figure is down to 47 per cent. We were told by the former Minister for the Army, now the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  that the best advice which the military could give us was that conscription ought not to be introduced, and be is a member of the Government which has always preached the value of good military advice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserve in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be providedfor all Aboriginal familiesw here the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the Stales and supply extra finance to the States to enable - 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and  rehabiliation  of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, maliciously and intentionally yesterday. 
Yes. I have taken the first opportunity to raise this matter after checking Hansard. Yesterday, as will be seen on page 2560 of Hansard, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  represented me as saying that conscripts are in some way criminals. I did not say that. 1 said that the conscription policy had made criminals of people who would otherwise have had unblemished records. I was obviously referring to people who had gone to gaol because they would not conform with that policy. 
I wish to join previous Opposition speakers in supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  In doing so 1 want to refer mainly to conditions in Western Australia, especially as they affect my own area but I also wish to cite as supporting evidence some New South Wales experience. As the basis of my speech I quote the petition which I presented in this House this morning as the first of a series that will be presented dealing with the question of Aboriginal welfare and housing in the south west land division of Western Australia. The petition begins with the paragraph:   . . that there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the south west land division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
As previous speakers have said, these things are very closely related. The conditions under which Aboriginals live are due to their housing. The housing in which they live is due to the conditions under which their parents lived and the education which their parents received. The education which their parents received was related largely to the employment or the lack of employment that their fathers had and their need to move about the countryside. If they did not move about the countryside they lived in abject poverty, in those days relying almost solely upon rations alone without even social services to support them. Therefore the problem has been one that has been selfperpetuating. It is one that has been complex and until very recent years nothing of a serious nature has been done to try and rectify it. 
Because the problem is still of a complex nature today I think that there is a need to provide more than just housing. There is a need to provide bousing where there is employment available to the men. There will be a need for understanding and patience on the part of employers in taking the men into employment. There will need to be decent housing provided of a standard that they can maintain and care for, housing for which they must be asked to pay rent and, if possible, be allowed to purchase at a very low rental even if it means some sort of reduction in the price or complete relief from having to pay interest. But at least they should be given the dignity of being able to buy or pay off their own home. This would help to give them more incentive to remain in employment, to give their children something better to come home to, to give them the opportunity to come home to families of which the father is in employment and is able to feed them well and therefore make them healthier, stronger and more resistant to disease. 
Some cruel judgments have been made of the Aboriginals in Western Australia - and 1 suppose this goes for the eastern States as well. It is said that they will not hold down a job. 1 know some of the conditions under which they have been employed and some of the tricks put over them by white employers and 1 do not wonder that they have not held down jobs. I also know the conditions under which they have had to live at home. On some of the reserves in Western Australia these conditions are almost beyond imagination and they are provided mainly by the Western Australian Government In fact, I have figures here that show that the Western Australian Government up until recently has been spending from $200,000 or $250,000 up to $700,000 a year on reserves. The houses are unlined, the design is of a monotonous nature and they are all built on a single style. There are communal ablution blocks, if one can call them that, which are unimaginative in style and lacking completely in hot water facilities unless there is a copper out in the open. Of course, this means that if there is wet weather they cannot have hot baths. It means that to have a hot bath they have to use a bucket or an iron tub because no baths are provided. Only shower facilities are provided, and without hot water they have to have a cold shower, which is pretty dreadful in the inland of Western Australia in winter time. We find children at school complaining about the smell of the Aboriginals but I wonder how many of them would go to school in any different condition if they lived under the same conditions? 1 believe that if the problem is to be attacked realistically it has to be attacked at all levels. Provision must be made to train the women who have not lived in a home before so they will know how to act as a wife and housekeeper and how to look after the home. Encouragement must be given to the men to remain in . employment and settle in places where employment is available and to which they want to go. We have to allow them the dignity of making their own decisions and their own choices. Then we have to see that they are enabled to pay rent at a level they can afford, that they are shown the basic requirements of hygiene and nutrition so that their children may have an opportunty of taking their rightful place within the schools and later within society. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table which I have received from the State Minister for Native Welfare showing the amounts that have been received from the Commonwealth and the amounts that have been spent by the State on Aboriginal housing from 1955-56 to the present time. It reads: 

<graphic href="070131197010221_81_5.jpg"></graphic>

These figures show where the money has been spent on Aboriginal housing by the Western Australian Government and the amounts that have been spent on reserves. These reserves should have been phased out long before this. They are a disgrace to the nation. It is a disgrace that governments should be spending money on building the types of houses that are being built and requiring human beings to live under the conditions that these people are being required to live under. 
The second point made in the petition to which I referred is that there is a need to phase out native reserves in the southwest land division of Western Australia over the next 3 years and I think that that is the right idea. I believe that it is necessary and desirable. Here I want to talk about the places in Western Australia and New South Wales to which I said I would refer. In Western Australia we have rather large reserves on the edges of towns. The people are demoralised. It is hard to get them to send their children to school regularly and it is hard to get them to remain in employment. They are more inclined than the average Aboriginal to turn to drink and other vices and they generally behave in the way that most people think is the norm for Aboriginals. But I believe that it is the norm for any people living under similar conditions, no matter what their nation of origin. It is a characteristic of people living in poverty. 
I believe that this can be illustrated by making a comparison with other towns where there are no reserves, where the men are in employment and, interestingly enough, remain in employment in the one job, and where they have been given the opportunity of paying rent and living in a housing commission home as is the case in my home town of Bunbury, Western Australia. If there is an Aboriginal problem at all there it is very, very minute. The Aboriginals give the police very little trouble. The men remain in employment and the children attend school. They have little trouble with disease. Their homes are tidy and well kept. They set an example for their own people and for many of the other citizens of the town. This is in contrast to those other places I have mentioned where there are reserves and where people do not have the same opportunities to take up employment and to live in decent housing. 
Interestingly enough, this compares with the experience of places in New South Wales. One town, for instance, which I will not name, has had a reserve built on its outskirts. The people were settled there in unit type houses, all of a type and ail of a colour. Some of those who were moved into, these places became discontented and did not wish to live under those conditions. They moved away and took up what we believe to be sub-standard white homes. They moved into these homes. They improved them. The men found employment and remained in employment. They paid whatever rent they were required to pay. The Housing Commission noticed what they were doing and made available to them Housing Commission homes in the town. These people have moved into them. They have started gardens around them. They have improved the houses and looked after them. They have paid the rent and have remained in employment. These are some of the people who, because they wanted to make their own decisions as lo where they should live and how they should live, left the reserve. They are of the same people that are on the reserve, yet they behave in a different manner. They have a different tone about their life. They are, to all intents and purposes, different individuals because they live under different conditions. 
Because examples can be taken across the nation from two vastly different places we see this as a socioligical problem rather than a problem of innate race. Therefore I believe there is need to phase out reserves within the next 3 years. The third point is that town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the breadwinner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 1 believe I have covered that. The next point is that such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent homemaker assistance in the ratio of 1 homemaker to every 8 houses or part thereof. The homemaker referred to is preferably to be a person of Aboriginal or part Aboriginal race so that she can move easily amongst the people, be there to give advice and assistance wherever possible, guide them in the. care and upkeep of their homes and in the care of their children and be to them their own clinic sister and home adviser. There is such a person operating in Bunbury. I believe she contributes much to the development and the improvement in conditions that are taking place there. She helps these people face their problems. She may be a partly trained social worker. At least she does that sort of work to the best of of her ability and makes an important contribution. I believe that this sort of assistance to help people who do not have a proper home background to move into the situation and develop decent homes is a necessity. The Government may have to take the responsibility in this field to see that such assistance is provided. 
The next point is that incentives of housing, homemaker services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed and unemployable. I believe that the reason for that also is selfevident. We must find places for Aboriginals where they have the opportunity of finding suitable employment. All the decisions made in regard to the future for Aboriginals must take these points into consideration. Insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. Therefore the need of the Federal and State Governments to do all they can to see that this is no longer so, to see that this problem is not one that goes on from generation to generation as it has done in the past but is one that is met within our own generation; and instead of being a selfgenerating deteriorating circumstance becomes a self-generating one of betterment and improvement until these people take an equal place in society, as they are capable of doing, as has been demonstrated in too few cases because of the little that has been done  to provide the  conditions under which such could be the case. 
Lastly, adequate finance to meet these requirements can be provided only by the Commonwealth Government. I think this is only too obvious and it is also unfortunately true that perhaps there is more concern within the Commonwealth - little as there is - than in the States. It is going to take the Commonwealth to stir the States into action, or to take complete responsibility itself if necessary', within a short period of time to see that this problem is met square on and that we act realising that these people are human beings who will react as human beings, given the opportunity, and therefore take their rightful place within our community. I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has Australia been supplying live wethers to Kuwait; if so, for how long. 
From which States have these wethers bees sent. 
How many wethers have been sent from each Stale during each year for which figures are available. 
What firm or State has the contract to supply this market at the present time. 
The humility of the modest honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is touching. He reminded me a little of a forerunner of his whose quality was humility, when he came to the side of his friend Latimer. I wondered whether the honourable member was in the prison to do his penance when he spoke so feelingly for the Australian Country Party. This was something that I found quite unusual and I wondered whether the honourable member was setting an example to show that we also should be penitent and that penitence was good for us all. I do not wish to deal to a great extent with what the honourable member said. However, he said that we must accept that necessary changes will take place, that we are going through a period of transition and we ought to recognise this. If what he said is correct and if the Government recognises that it is so, the Government ought to state it in clear terms and should devise policies to be put into effect in those circumstances and make it quite clear why these policies are being introduced and implemented. The Government ought to tell the people involved in the industry its plans, its functions, what it is doing, why it is doing it and involve these people in the change. The Government should take this course of action instead of allowing as many people to be hurt as are being hurt at present because the Government has not decided what it intends to do under the circum stances. The Government has not given any hope and direction to the people. In fact, in Western Australia it has quite culpably failed the farming community. 
In Western Australia the Government has not only not told us bow many farmers it wants to go but the Government has been opening up about 1 million acres of land in Western Australian for people to grow wool and wheat. The Western Australian Minister for Agriculture, who is a farmer and a member of the Country Party, was asked the other day on a Four Comers' programme why this had been done. He said it was done because people were demanding land and when this happens you must give in to those demands and open the land up. He was asked: 'Under the present circumstances was that not a wrong decision?' He said: 'No, you must yield to what the people are demanding'. Of course it was a wrong decision. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said earlier this year that anyone who had anything to do with the wheat industry could have foreseen 5 years ago what was going to develop. If the Government bad foreseen this, surely the responsible thing to have done was to take the necessary action to see that as few people as possible suffered or that the number of wheat growers was pegged at a certain level to avoid the over-production into which we have run at present. That would have been responsible government. One would have thought that if the Country Party was supporting people on the land and if the farmers were told what was the right thing to do the present situation would not have eventuated. 
Because of the limitation of time to speak in this debate I want to direct my remarks mainly to the wool industry in Western Australia. Firstly, I want to try to set what I have to say in perspective and illustrate the situation that has caused the Government to act. That situation has not developed suddenly but has been developing over the last 5 years and perhaps longer. I want to refer to the situation which has induced the Government to introduce this Bill. The Bill was introduced last night, allowing only 24 hours in which to examine it. We must ask ourselves:  Why  this terrible haste?' Of course, the answer is that a Senate election is approaching and the Parliament is to rise at the end of this week. When I was speaking on the Budget I said that the holding of elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives separately is a waste of money. It costs the country about $l+m to hold the elections separately. However, on this occasion I think the benefits to the wool growers may be even greater than this amount. It is certain that this legislation would not have been introduced and dealt with if the Senate election was not upon us. 
I would like to quote from an article which appeared in the 'West Australian* of 11th September 1970. The article stated: 
About 3,000 West Australian grain and sheep fanners now appear to be in a near hopeless financial position and are almost certain to have to leave their farms in the next few years. 
About one in five wheat and sheep farmers is unable to pay debts and earn a reasonable living. They cannot borrow more money..... 
These farmers are scattered through all agricultural areas, with concentrations in higher rainfall areas such as Rocky Gully, Jerramungup, Ravensthorpe, Bridgetown, Boyup Brook, the Midlands and parts of Esperance. 
This is a very scattered section of Western Australia. The article continued. 
There are also considerable numbers in the traditional  wheatbelt  areas. 
There seem to be at least 500 new land farmers with virtually no chance of continuing in farming. 
These are the people who have been encouraged to take the new land which has been opened up by the Western Australian Government in recent years. Their plight is appalling. The article continues: 
Consideration mav have to be given to abandoning some of the areas recently opened up and resettling the farmers elsewhere. 
Up to another 5,000 farmers are in no immediate danger of being forced off but are having trouble servicing debts, which average about $30,000 a farm and run up to 570,000 to $80,000. 
The total rural debt in WA is now more than $200 million owned to banks, stock firms, insurance companies, hire purchase companies and other lenders. 
These figures, which do not include dairy and horticulture farmers, are based on discussions with government officials, representatives of lending institutions and farm leaders. 
Farm values are estimated to have fallen 20 to 25 per cent in the past 18 months. 
Not only have the debts of these farmers risen at a tremendous rate and to frightening proportions but they are in a position where there are so many farms for sale that it is virtually impossible to sell them and prices for farms have fallen as rapidly as farmers' debts have increased. Only recently I had the gravity of this situation brought home to me by electors in Western Australia. One gentleman came to me very concerned one day. He had no debts and he owed the machinery companies or the stock firms nothing. However, he owed the man from whom he was purchasing the land $14,000. He went to the Commonwealth Bank and asked for a loan of $14,000 so that he could pay out the owner of the farm. The bank manager told him that to obtain that money he would have to put his farm on the market at a reasonable price and would have to understand that the sum of $14,000 as an advance was the limit of the money that he could borrow from the bank. He was in the position where he had to agree to this proposition. He finds now that his farm is being advertised by stock firms and that the bank manager concerned has zealously gone among his neighbours to tell them that the place is on the market and to inform them of the price. He may find himself in the position of having the farm sold over his head. 
The other day, I was speaking to some people who come from the border of my electorate. They had come originally from the eastern States only a few years ago. They had been wool growers. They sold their farm in the east - I am referring to 2 brothers- for quite a good price and were able to buy land at a cheaper rate in Western Australia. Therefore, they had money behind them. Now, these brothers have had to lease their farms. They are going to work in the iron fields at Mount Tom Price. The wife of one of these men will have to return to school teaching. Countless numbers of farmers must leave their farms now, take up jobs in towns and send their wives out to work. 
This is the situation that has caused the Government to act. Yet it has acted only at this late stage because a Senate election is around the corner. The Government would have been content, in other words, to allow this situation to continue for at least another 2 years until the next House of Representatives election is due. This is the situation. 
I do not know how this has come about, but the time that has elapsed since it became apparent that the Government ought to take action of this kind and the presentation of this measure is approximately the same as the time that elapsed between the statement by the Government that it would take action to assist marginal dairy farmers and the occasion when the marginal dairy farms legislation was introduced, that is, 4 years to 5 years. 
Of course, in the case of the legislation relating to marginal dairy farms, it must be remembered that the Act will operate for 4 years only. The legislation will mean only $l.Sm per annum to each of the States involved. The introduction of that legislation was held up ostensibly because the States would not agree. The legislation was introduced with agreement from one State only. The Bill could have been introduced in the first place because that same State had agreed to the scheme after the proposal was first made. So, the result was the same. 
So too could this legislation have been introduced earlier. Better legislation, with more thought given to it, and with better drafting, could have been introduced 4 years ago and the wool industry would have accepted it in the same way as the earlier legislation to provide assistance for marginal dairy farms was accepted by the States and the farmers concerned. 
The Opposition looks forward to moving amendments to this Bill during the Committee stage. We are hopeful that this will be the first step on the way to introducing our own wool proposals which we believe are eminently more suited to the conditions and to the needs of the wool farmers of this country. We hope to see great care exercised in the choice of the  chairman  and members of the Commission. We would hope to see increased grower representation on the Commission. 
We hope that the disintegration that has taken place within the ranks of the parties opposite together with the rebuff that they will suffer at the Senate election which is approaching will force any early general election so that it will be a matter of only 12 months or even less before the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  stands on the opposite side of the table to which he stood this evening to present to the Parliament the Bill which will include the proposals of our Party for the wool industry. 

 Sir, we are not opposing the Bill. We support it as being only partly desirable, that is only insofar as it compares with our own proposed legislation. We look forward to the time when we shall have our proposals accepted in this place for the benefit of those people whose suffering and whose financial difficulties are of the greatest concern to us. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government of Western Australia sought Commonwealth assistance for the building of a dam for irrigation purposes near Harvey. 
Is this dam required for the irrigation of fringe farming areas and to prevent flooding in the region. 
Was Commonwealth assistance originally requested in 1966. 
It so, what was the estimated costof construction at that time. 
What is the estimated cost of construction at the present time. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Western Australian Government sought Commonwealth assistance for water conservation and irrigation projects during the past 1 2 months; if so, what were these projects. 
What was the order of priority set down for individual projects. 
What amount was sought for each of these projects. 
Which of these projects have been examined and assessed by the Commonwealth. 
When is a decision likely to be made on the financial assistance to be granted. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has Commonwealth assistance been extended to State Governments for electrical power production. 
If so, (a) what was the nature of the assistance in each case, (b) to which States was it extended, (c) when was the assistance given, (d) what specific plants were assisted, (e) what was the extent of the loan or grant in each case, and (f) how many loans or grants were for coal burning plants. 
Has the Western Australian Government sought assistance from the Commonwealth to extend the Muja Station. 
If not, would favourable consideration be given to such a request. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Can country people claim as taxation deductions travelling expenses incurred in obtaining specialist medical care. 
If not, has provision of such an allowance been considered by the Government. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
 That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the breadwinner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent *home-maker' assistance in the ratio of 1 home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who arc currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these' requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vita] matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Aid lo Developing Countries 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation,  upon  notice: 
How many former conscripts 
applied for, and 
were granted re-establishment loans 
throughout Australia; and 
in each State in each year since the inception of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What has been the increase or decrease in enrolment in each sub-division in the electoral divisions of (a) Canning and (b) Forrest since the 1968 redistribution. 
What is the present enrolment in each of these sub-divisions. 
asked the Minister  for  Immigration, upon notice: 
How many South Koreans or other aliens were originally issued with permits to work on Bunbury Harbour Works. 
How many of these persons have now left Australia. 
Of the number of persons who left Australia, how many were replaced. 
How many additional permits have been granted since the dredge arrived in Bunbury. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What Aboriginal organisations ure, or have, been financially assisted by his Office. 
What has been the extent of assistance in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister visited the electoral division of Forrest since November 1969: If so, when, and what towns did he visit. 
If Bunbury was one of the towns visited, did the Minister meet representatives of the Bunbury Town Council. 
Did the Minister visit the Bunbury airfield and have discussions on the future of the air services for that town; If so, with what result. 
Does the Minister have any record of my correspondence with him in relation to the Bunbury airfield. ' (5) Is it usual for a Minister to inform a Member when he intends to visit a Member's Electorate: If so, why was I not informed on this occasion. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker* assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker* services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I ask the Prime Minister: Firstly, does his Government intend to take delivery of the Fill aircraft ordered from the United States nearly a decade ago? If not, what does he intend to do to recoup some of the hundreds of millions of dollars already spent on the aircraft? Secondly, are the Fill aircraft to be flown to Canberra later this year and are they to be used for fly-past displays? If so, will the right honourable gentleman see that Canberra residents are informed both of the intended presence of the aircraft and of their propensity to crash with the frequency of Liberal Prime Ministers and other Ministers so that property and life may be adequately insured and protected? 

 - Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Wentworth)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved  ' in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members  ot  the House of Representatives in Parliament assem-bled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, and their parents suffer penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. , 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment tor those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
 I wish to raise a matter which should be dear to the hearts of honourable  members  opposite. 1 intend to refer to one of the subjects which honourable members opposite regard as being of supreme importance and which I agree is of supreme importance, namely, democracy. Wc pride ourselves in Australia on being democrats and on being the protectors and maintainers of democracy, yet I. would venture to say that we keep alive in this country a mere shadow of democracy. Recently there was an' election in Western Australia, which may be news to people who live in the eastern States, especially those who read only the Sydney Daily Telegraph'. 
It referred to it in one small paragraph at the end of a story on page 9 of one of its editions. In Western Australia the Australian Labor Party gained 50 per cent of the votes and the combined Liberal and Country Parties gained about 35 per cent of the votes. However, the result of the election for the Legislative Council in the Western Australian Parliament was 5 seats for the Labor Party and 10 for the combined Liberal and Country Parties. We are fortunate in Western Australia in that we have an impartial commission drawing up the electoral boundaries. I dare say that if we did not have an impartial commission doing this the situation would be far worse. I will take as an example the North East Metropolitan province, which has a total enrolment of 80.000 voters. This province is made up of 5 seats, each with an average of about 18,000 on the electoral roll. One of these seats is Ascot. The Liberal Party did not bother to contest it. Another is Belmont, which the Liberal Party also did not contest. A third is Maylands, which the Labor Party held comfortably but which could be regarded as a swinging seat. A fourth is Mirrabooka, which was held by the Liberal Party but which is now held by the Labor Patty and therefore is a swinging seat. The last is Swan, which the Liberal Party did not contest. So there has been a very convenient banding together qf two very safe Labor seats with two other seats which are held by Labor and there is one representative in the Legislative Council for 80,000 constituents. The same situation applies in South Metropolitan. Four seats make up the province. Three of .them are very safe Labor seats and one a Liberal seat. There is an enrolment of 63,000 voters for this province. 
Contrast that position with the seats in my electorate. 1 represent a country electorate. I have the distinction of having within the boundaries of my electorate 17 State parliamentarians. Of course, the area is one which generally returns Liberal or Country Party members. These members represent very small constituencies. The upper House seats in my area are formed by the combination of 3 lower House seats each of an average enrolment of 5,500 to 6,000; thus the upper House seats have an enrolment of about 18,000. The Lower Central electorate comprises the seats of Collie, which is safe. Labor, and Narrogin and Katanning, which are just as safe antiLabor seats. The South. West electorate comprises Vasse, which .is safe anti-Labor, Blackwood, which is safe, anti-Labor, and Warren, which is safe .Labor. The South electorate consists of Albany, which is held by Labor, Stirling and Roe, which are held comfortably by anti-Labor parties. By combining seats together in this way it is ensured that 9 anti-Labor members will be returned to the upper House at each election and 5 Labor members) with one seat doubtful. 
Of course, that would be bad enough but  there was such a swing to Labor in Western Australia at the last election that the Australian Labor Party came within an ace of winning a number of those upper House seats. Labor lost one seat by 85 votes, another by 120 votes and a third by a couple of hundred votes,' even though on first preferences the Labor candidates had led their nearest opponents by anything from 800 to 1,500 votes! However preferential voting applied and the votes of all the other candidates combined were sufficient to remove from Labor's grasp seats which otherwise would have been held comfortably. I know that there is no chance in Western Australia of improving the electoral legislation because the Labor Party cannot get a Bill through the upper House. The only way it will ever succeed is by securing 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the vote at 2 consecutive elections, so giving Labor a narrow margin. This, of course, is out of the question. I believe that Labor's only hope, if preferential voting is not abandoned altogether, is for the Parliament of Western Australia - and I would hope other Parliaments in Australia - to accept optional preference voting whereby people would not be forced to record a vote in order of preference for each candidate who is standing for election. If they desired, they could vote for one person, two persons or three right up to the total number of candidates which, in some instances in the last election, was 7. 
Under the present system the Act requires that a preference shall be given to every candidate in order of preference except in the case of the last candidate where a number may be omitted and the vote still be counted as formal. At present the elector is obliged to cast his vote in this way. Votes are counted as though each elector has carefully weighed up in his mind the exact order in which he wants to vote for all candidates. I think it is a fairer proposition to suggest that this system should be replaced with optional preferences. We could then recognise those people who do have a genuine preference between a sixth and seventh candidate, a fifth and fourth candidate and so on. By this means we might diminish the value of the votes of such groups as the United Farmers and Graziers Association, whose candidates stood for the first time in Western Australia during the recent elections, and the Democratic Labor Party whose candidates contest most seats throughout Australia. I believe that the present system is not democratic but is a poor shadow of democratic voting. 
Electorates should be divided as evenly as is possible amongst the electors so that all electorates have about the same number of electors. Boundaries should be drawn genuinely on the basis of community of interest and lines of communication. This is no more done in the State sphere than it is in the Federal sphere. If it were done in the Federal sphere in Western Australia there would be only one country electorate where at present there are two, the electorates of Canning and Moore. Those electorates, to bring their number to somewhere near the quota, are taken into the metropolitan area. 
Kalgoorlie does not take in any of the metropolitan area. The electorates I have mentioned are taken into the metropolitan area but only to such an extent as to bring them up to the quota. It was intended that there should be a sufficiently large number of metropolitan voters in those areas to bring them to the standing of an electorate but a sufficiently small number of metropolitan voters to ensure that they should not endanger the Country Party's grip upon them. However the metropolitan areas within those electorates have grown to such an extent that they will be won by the Australian Labor Party at the next election. I hope that at the next distribution there will be only one electorate - a new electorate on the outskirts of the metropolitan area - where the electorates of Canning and Moore now exist so that the people concerned will have an electorate which has been decided on the basis of community of interest and lines of communication. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and . Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population -explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town bousing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vita] matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Prim  ary  Industry, upon notice: 
How many vacancies were available for farmers who trained to be meat inspectors under the recently held training scheme. 
How many applications were received from farmers to fill these vacancies. 
What evidence is there to suggest that the scheme was (a) welcomed by men seeking retraining and (b) successful. 
What other schemes are currently (a) operating to retrain farmers wishing to leave the land and (b) under consideration for retraining men from the primary industries. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirement can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish I had the childlike faith of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who questions the soundness of our procedure in discussing this matter of public importance on the grounds that we know that there is about to be implemented in this place legislation to deal with the things that we are discussing in this debate. Without taking my mind back very far at all I can recall that some 5 years ago we were told the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme was to be introduced in that year. We were told at intervals of about 6-months at the most that its introduction into this place was imminent and that there was no cause for us to be concerned. 
I will deal with that, too. In fact, the legislation was introduced about a year ago after 4 years of procrastination. It was to operate for a 4-year period and the amount of money involved was only $25m. How do we know that there will not be the same interminable procrastination with this legislation? We are told that it will be introduced in this sessional period, but we know, too, that this sessional period will come to an end late next week. It would be most unusual if the legislation were passed in so short a time. Most legislation is not passed as quickly as that. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  asked what the hold-up was with the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. The hold-up, as we were told by the former Minister for Primary Industry, was because the States could not come to an agreement with the Commonwealth. It will be recalled that when the legislation was introduced in this House only one State was in agreement, and that was Western Australia. But once the legislation was introduced here it was only a matter of a week or two before another 2 States, one of which was Tasmania, agreed to the scheme. Of course, all the States concerned have now agreed to the scheme. So if we are to be told again that the reason we have not proceeded with this legislation is that it has been impossible to get agreement with the States, surely we can look back only 12 months and see what was done in the field of dairy farm reconstruction and realise the need to get the legislation through and allow the States to come to an agreement on it once it has gone through, if that is the way it has to be done. But perhaps in this debate it may be necessary to give some indication of the situation in which the Government is being asked to act. if any honourable member was to go to the Parliamentary Library and see the file on this subject he would find that it is about 3 inches thick and dates back for some years because this is not a situation that has developed suddenly. It has been developing for at least 5 years and has become apparent even to those with only a most cursory interest in this field, let alone those involved in the industry. It was reported in the 'West Australian' of 11th September last year, for instance, that there were 3,000 wheat and sheep farmers in Western Australia who were in immediate danger of being forced off their farms within a very abort space of time. It was also reported that there were 5,000 other farmers who were not in immediate difficulty but who, unless there was a definite upward trend, would be forced off their places within 2 or 3 years. That is the situation. Unfortunately in Western Australia it was exacerbated by the term in office of the Liberal-Country Party Government which endeavoured to throw open one million acres of new land each year to give credence to. its argument that we were a State on the move, a developing State. Unfortunately, the people who went on to the extra million acres which was opened up every year have found themselves in very grave difficulties and it is many of those people who have left their farms and will leave their farms within a short time. 
But it is not only those people who are leaving. I know men who came through the depression, men who have weathered the storms, who are unable to weather this storm and are leaving their properties. The report in the 'West Australian' also stated that in the previous 18 months farm values in the State dropped by 20 per cent to 25 per cent. That, of course, is something of very grave importance to people who have borrowed on their farms and also to people who have inherited farms and are faced with paying the probate and other taxes on the property at the taxation valuation - and, of course, the taxation valuation at that time continues to the present time and causes grave difficulties. In the 'West Australian' of 16th September there was a report on the situation in Esperance, one of the booming sections of the State only a few years ago. The report states: 
Claims that some farmers in the Esperance area are unable to raise finance to buy food were made at a meeting in Esperance today of more than 100 farmers. It was also claimed that children were being forced to leave schools and colleges. 
Four resolutions were adopted, lt was agreed: 
To ask the Government for immediate finance for living expenses for farmers affected by drought. This finance should be available till drought relief or any other help became available. 
That finance should be made available by thi' Government to cover the cost of the secondary and tertiary education of children from rural areas affected by the current economic situation. 
That the Commonwealth Development Bank should be asked to delay interest and principal repayments on development loans for at least three years and possibly five years. 
I think that those points are worthy of very careful consideration, particularly the one that refers to the education of children in rural areas. Action should be taken on this because the children concerned will be forced to stay on the farms or become rural workers and labourers because they have not been able to obtain the education which they require. I know people in my own electorate who have previously been able to send their children to colleges in the capital city but who are now forced to put them through correspondence courses - and we know how comparatively inadequate they are and how it will be almost impossible for those children to make their way in life. The Government should have acted to see that this sort of situation was not allowed to develop because these are people we will have to try to re-train at a later time and that possibly unnecessarily if earlier action had been taken. If it is suggested that this situation is not entirely restricted to Western Australia that suggestion would not be disputed. To answer what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said about the Government not procrastinating I would like to read what was said at a graziers' meeting in New South Wales and reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Friday last. The report states: 
Entire rural  communites  would have to shut up shop unless the Federal Government provided immediate help for primary producers, the annual conference of the New South Wales Graziers' Association was told yesterday. 

 Mr P. A. Wright, a delegate from Uralla, said Government 'proscrastination' in  rural reconstruction was creating a 'tremendous social problem' which the Government did not appear to understand or recognise. 
He said a mass movement of people off the land could become a tide with social effects which would be very difficult to predict. 
If the Government persists in procrastination it could find a situation on its hands that no government could retrieve,' he said.  1  think  that is the situation, lt is a most serious one and cannot be exaggerated. It requires urgent action. I wished to go on to illustrate some of the action that 1 believe 
Ought  to be taken but I can give only the main points I had intended to speak on. I believe  that  the legislation should contain provisions similar to those in the marginal dairy farms scheme but that it should be implemented more quickly and be more far reaching in its intentions. I believe there should be a debt moratorium or cheap interest allowed over a short term to potentially viable producers. I believe there must be retraining schemes and that they must be introduced in this sessional period even though there  is  so little time left. I believe that assistance to country children at secondary and tertiary level is of the utmost importance if we are to avoid having those children become labourers in the community. The need for action is most urgent. Such action must be soundly based and not something done in the way in which the $30m wool grant was dissipated over a wide area with no effect. If that $30m had been part of this scheme and added to the Si 00m it would have achieved a lasting and valuable effect. Instead it was very inequitably distributed and virtually dissipated. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
To what extent does the ministerial statement on Foreign Affairs made by the Honourable Gordon Freeth on 14th August 1969, express the mind of the present Government. 
Which ministerial statements made during the past 3 years do not express the mind  of  the first McMahon Government. 
I wish to refer to a matter which has been raised already by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  On Wednesday, 28th April, the 'West Australian', under a heading 'Department, Army to meet soon over medicals' carried this report: 
The heads of the Department of Labour and National Service and the army will meet soon to adopt a set of medical standards for conscripts. 
The meeting, to be held in Melbourne, comes after a disagreement over medical standards. 
Several Western Australian conscripts who were passed as fit by the department failed to measure up to the medical requirements of the army. 
They were returned to Western Australia and discharged. 
Although the spokesman could not give an exact figure, he said it had been estimated that about 100 conscripts were similarly rejected every year. 
This had cost the Commonwealth Government about $100,000 annually. 
The conflict on medical standards came to a head last week when the army refused to induct four young men approved by the department. 
I hope that report is correct because this year alone the cases of 4 young men who had been accepted by the Department of Labour and National Service and ultimately rejected by the Army have been referred to me. I had taken up their cases with the Department of Labour and National Service before they had been inducted but after they had been passed as medically fit. One of the young lads had very poor eyesight. It was not he who approached me but his employer, who was gravely concerned about what might happen to him if he were inducted into the Army, who referred the matter to me. The medical officers who examined him in the first place were concerned lest he should be wrongly inducted. They would not pass him as fit without the approval of a specialist ophthalmologist. He was sent to a specialist - an ex-Army colonel, who I imagine would wish to see in the Army as many young people as possible - and he was passed as fit. 
As I have said, I put his case to the Department of Labour and National Service not only in Perth but also in Melbourne, and a couple of days before he was due to be inducted I rang the Department to get a ruling. I was told that he would have to be inducted. I reminded the officer at the Department of the case that was brought before this House by the honourable member for Sturt, who told us about a chap with very poor eyesight who was inducted into the Army and eventually killed in Vietnam, probably because of his faulty eyesight. I said that I would be watching this case with interest and hoped to see this lad in a clerical position or some other position where he would not be in danger because of his poor eyesight. On induction into the Army he had the mis fortune to break his glasses. He then had to be tested by the Army doctor for new glasses and when he was being examined the doctor asked him how the dickens he had got into the Army. The doctor said that he should never have been inducted and would have to be discharged forthwith. That was only 6 weeks after his induction. 
The second case was that of a lad who came to Australia from Europe. Before leaving Europe he was told by his doctor that he could come to Australia only on the condition that he could enter without receiving a smallpox injection because if he was subjected to one it would endanger his health. He was told that should there be an outbreak of smallpox in Australia he should apply immediately to be put into isolation in a hospital to avoid the need for inoculation. On being inducted into the Army he was sent for inoculation and refused to have it. He told the Army that he had been warned by his doctor in Europe that he should never undergo such inoculation. In spite of the fact that he had an unstable medical record and was subject to periods of severe depression, this lad was warned that if he continued to refuse to undergo smallpox inoculation he would have his pay stopped and be confined to barracks. I continued to press his case after his induction and his psychiatrist in Perth, on hearing that he was in the Army, wrote immediately to the Department saying that it was his opinion that this lad should not be in the Army because that would be extremely detrimental to his health and welfare. He was thereupon released after 8 weeks in the Army. 
Because my time is running out I wish to refer to one other case which has come recently to my notice. A person who does not live within my electorate has appealed to me to try to assist him because he is facing court proceedings for failing to enter the Army under the National Service Act.  His  doctor has said that the court proceedings themselves will have an extremely detrimental effect upon his health. He is a most unhealthy individual, again a person with bad psychiatric tendencies, and the doctor has said that it is impossible for him to go into the Army without it having an extremely adverse effect upon him. The Army cannot need people who are so ill and so unfit for Army service, and yet apparently the Department of Labour and National Service persists in having them inducted into the Service. I think it is to the credit of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  that when these cases are referred to him he acts with expedition and takes a sympathetic interest in them and has the people concerned released from the Army in a very short space of time. But I think that such situations should never arise. The Department of Labour and National Service should apply the same medical standards to men being inducted as conscripts as are applied to those men who are inducted as permanent servicemen. 
Of course, I believe that the whole question should not arise. I believe that conscription is iniquitous and should not be introduced into any country except in a time of extreme emergency as was done by the Curtin Government during the Second World War. I agree with those members of the Opposition and of the community who suggest that perhaps the best course for young men to take is to not comply with the Act and to refuse to register. If they did that with unanimity then, of course, the whole thing would fail. Unfortunately, that is not done and, therefore, I hesitate to advise young people as individuals not to enrol. But I think that it is an iniquitous Act and is not good for Australia. The need for it has not occurred since it was introduced in the Second World War. I think we would be better training men for the service of peace than for the service of war, and that we should do all we can to humanise our people and not to dehumanise them. 
I think that it is a waste of human resources that we take some of the best trained men of our community at a time when they are about to apply those things they have learnt at universities, teachers' colleges and in their trades and professions and put them into the forces to carry out tasks which are altogether different. As was reported in the 'Canberra Times' some weeks ago we have school teachers acting as flunkies at Duntroon and other places when the country is lacking in trained teaching staff. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said tonight, we have a trained scientist languishing in jail because he will not comply with the provisions of this Act. I think that the Act and the whole question of national service is one that deserves early examination with a view to its repeal. Until it is repealed I think that there is need for the examination referred to in the West Australian'. It is correct that the Department of the Army and the Department of Labour and National Service should come to an agreement about what the medical standards should be. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I ask the right honourable gentleman whether Fill aircraft are again grounded in the United States following a further crash. If so, will the Government begin immediate negotiations to terminate our agreement to purchase this unhappy craft and recoup as much as possible of the more than $300m already sent to the United States for their purchase? Will the right honourable gentleman see that the redeemed funds are channelled into rural reconstruction along with the $100m already proposed so that the funds may achieve lasting good? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many applications were received from wool growers for assistance under the $30m grants scheme. 
How many applicants received assistance. 
What was the average amount paid to growers. 
How many growers received the maximum amount of $1,500. 
How many grants of (a) $1,001-$1,500, (b) $901-1,000, (c) $801-$900, (d) $701-$800, (e) $601-$700, (f) $5014600, (g) $4014500, (h) $301- $400, (i) $201-5300, (j) $1014200, and (k) $100 and less, were allocated in each State. 
We are debating a matter of public importance which is in these terms: 
The continuing waste of public money, frustration of skilled personnel and disruption of the defence programme in Australia due to the Fill contract. 
The particular matter about which I want to argue this afternoon is that which is contained m the words 'The continuing waste of public money ... in Australia due to the Fill contract'. I believe that this programme must be viewed in context. We have to look at it in the context presented from the time when Australia first ordered these aircraft until the present day. The arguments put forward by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  are very similar in character to those which have been advanced in this House during that period of time. We have had assurances from each of the Ministers of Air and Defence in turn from 1963 up to the present that what was done was right and that the right decision was made for this country. I intend to show that that is not so and cannot be sustained. 
The Minister for Defence is known for his specious arguments. I believe that the argument he put forward here this afternoon was as specious as the one he put forward at the time he disagreed with the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  when he played on semantics.. I need only refer to what has been said in the United States by the  Chairman  of the Senate Permanent Investigations Subcommittee. The 'Australian' of 28th March 1970, referring to a statement made in Washington by  Senator John  L. McClelland, the  Chairman  of the subcommittee, stated: 
He said at a committee bearing that the plane's erasing range was only 2,750 miles as against 4,180 miles called for in the performance specifications. 
Australia bought the aircraft believing that it had a range of 4,180 miles, and now it is found that it will fly only 2,750 miles. The report continues: 
Its maximum, high altitude speed - originally specified at 2.S times the speed of sound - was 2.2 mach,  Senator  McClelland  said. 
He also told the committee that - 
The plane's supersonic dash distance - its capability of diving under enemy radar and surfacetoair missiles, flying at supersonic speeds to attack, and then climbing back to high altitudes - was 30 miles as against 210 miles in the contract specifications. 
They are the specifications under which Australia placed the order - 
It would require al least 3,350 feet to take off, instead of 2,780 feet- 
When we ordered the aircraft it was claimed that the aircraft would require 2,780 feet to take off. 
It would need 4 minutes to accelerate from .9 to mach 2.2, compared with the 1.45 minutes specified. 
So it meets none of the specifications on which it was ordered. That would be bad enough if we were paying the same price for the aircraft as that quoted when the contract was made. When we ordered the aircraft in 1963 we expected it to cost $US125m. It is  believed in  1971 that the cost will be $US300m. That is more than double the price, and the aircraft has fallen way below the specifications. If those facts do not illustrate that there has been a total waste of Government money and mismanagement by this Government, then I do not know what is needed to prove it. The situation would be bad enough if Australia was doing as others who had placed orders for the aircraft have done or are doing. The British Government, which placed orders at about the same time as we did, withdrew from the contract in 1967. It withdrew because it knew at that stage, 4 years ago, that the aircraft was falling far short of the specifications laid down at the time the order was placed. I believe that that action was an indication of responsible and careful government and the protection of public moneys, in marked contrast to the attitude of our Government. 
We must know why the Government did not withdraw when United States forces and other world governments were cancelling their orders. The answer is contained in the speech made last year by the then Minister for Defence which reads as follows:  the practical effect of these documents was that, taken together, they gave the United States the overriding authority to modify or downgrade the aircraft's specifications if for some reason it felt that it became necessary or unavoidable. It followed that, when the United States authorities did this, Australia was bound to accept any aircraft delivered in accordance with such downgraded specification, provided of course similar aircraft were accepted by the United States Air Force. 
The only proviso in the contract was that the United States Air Force should accept some of the aircraft, no matter how far they fell short of the specifications. The then Minister continued: 
In other words these 2 documents gave Australia no assurance against degradation of performance. 
Later he said: 
In short if General Dynamics failed to produce an effective aircraft, we would lose our Australian expenditure without remedy beyond any which the United States could pursue on behalf of both of us with the company. This then was the Australian position and the extent of our rights as they existed prior to my visit to the United States. 
That shows the sort of decision making that was indulged in by the LiberalCountry Party Government on behalf of this country. The Government entered into an agreement which contained no ceiling above which the price might rise and no floor beneath which the specifications might fall, provided the Americans accepted a few of the aircraft. That shows a gross dereliction of duty. I believe that the Government is culpable and that it ought to face severe censure. It would be bad enough if this were an isolated incident, but I believe that the Fill incident epitomises the sort of decision making that is indulged in by the Government, especially in the field of defence. 
The Fill can be taken as a symbol of the Liberal and Country parties. It ought to be placed on their letterheads. It shows to us in a material form what the Liberal-Country Party Government is and what it stands for. It stands for hasty decisions at election times. It stands for all sorts of tricks, as this was. The contract was something which  Sir Robert  Menzies entered into in 1963 to convince the people that they were in danger of imminent attack and to show his seriousness in preparing us for that eventuality by preparing to protect and defend us. That is the sort of defence we have had under Liberal-Country Party governments. It is a sham and a show. Unfortunately it is a very costly one. I believe that it is a luxury that this country cannot afford. 
I believe that the Liberal-Country Party Government is a luxury that this country cannot afford. As I said in a question, the Fill has the propensity to crash with the frequency of Liberal Ministers and Prime Ministers. In that way the Fill symbolises the Government. It is prone to cracking, friction and breakup from within, as is the Liberal-Country Party Government. It is an apt symbol of the Government. As I said, this is not an isolated incident. It is one that epitomises the sort of thing that has happened on the opposite side. It is not something that has happened only  in  recent years. I remember the former honourable member for East Sydney rising in this House and asking about HMAS Hobart'. It was discovered, after many continuous denials, that 2m had been spent on refitting that ship. It did not go to sea again before it was sold to the Japanese, for thousands of pounds, for scrap. 
Australia has spent about $60m on conscription. That was a hasty and bad decision. It has not given us the sort of Army that we require. We have spent in excess of $200m on our intervention in Vietnam. I believe that that was a wrong decision, a waste of public money and a waste of manpower. We learnt from the Press recently that it is costing us $100,000 a year for mistakes that are made by the Department of Labour and National Service in inducting into the Army men who are not medically fit and who then have to be released by the Army. It is costing us $100,000 a year for those administrative mistakes. We learn that we are paying $100,000 a year in repatriation benefits to men who are wounded in Vietnam and who will continue to draw benefits for the rest of their lives because of the wounds they have suffered. It will be a continuing expense for something that we indulged in, that was utterly wrong and that has caused a gross waste of money, manpower, life and ability. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Forrest from moving that the House do now adjourn. 
I believe that this is the best and soundest motion to be put to this House since midnight tonight. I believe the House cannot conduct its business properly at this hour of. the morning. Because of the way in which the business paper is drawn at present we cannot possibly conclude the business before the House meets for question time at 10 o'clock later this morning. I believe it has been made amply clear to supporters of the Government that members of the Opposition are fully aware that we have been elected by the people to come to this place and that we are prepared to come here for another fortnight to deal with this business in the proper way. Therefore, I have moved this motion. I hope that honourable members will accept it and that by voting solidly for it honourable members opposite will not jeopardise their chances of getting one of the new ministerial posts. 
When the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Sinclair) introduced the Bill into this House he said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to 'enable the Commonwealth Government to guarantee the repayment of loans and the payment of interest on amounts that may be borrowed 'by the Australian Wool Board for the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes. 
The Minister went on to say: 
An amendment to the Wool Industry Act last year authorised the - Wool Board to establish or encourage the establishment, where appropriate, of . integrated wool selling complexes, and empowered the Board to borrow .for these" .purposes, subject to the approval of the. Treasurer and myself. 
In. addressing my remarks; to the establishment of such a centre I want to suggest an appropriate site in Western Australia. The electorate of Forrest, .which T represent, constitutes only a very 'small proportion of the State of Western Australia. That State comprises one-third of ' the ' total area of Australia. Western Australia has been one of the greatest wool producing States in the Commonwealth from the days of its early history. Wool is produced from the north-west of the State to the south-west area, which comprises my electorate. I agree with the previous speakers who have said that there is a need for a close examination of what is required to provide the best means of presenting and selling wool. I believe that there: is a need to rationalise the sale of wool and that it is necessary to centralise the sale and the presentation in one place in a State, if this is possible. In Western Australia there is no more suitable place than the port of Albany, t asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon):  a question on notice about what had been done by the Government to establish whether Albany was a suitable site for a wool selling centre and wool exporting port. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the question and answer to which I have referred and which are already in Hansard of 20th April 1971. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has any approach been made to the Government by the Western Australian Government to preserve the port of Albany as an export port particularly for the export of wool? 
If so, what is the Government doing to ensure the protection and preservation of Albany as an export port? 
In November 1969 the Western Australia Transport Minister  Mr O'Connor  approached the Minister for Shipping and Transport on behalf of the West Australian Government concerning the preservation of the port of Albany as an export Port. In December 1969  Mr Sinclair  visited Albany for discussions with local authorities. Further discussions with members of the Western Australian Government were held in February 1970. 
In respect of the general movement of ships in and out of Albany, although some reduction of services has resulted from containerisation, there has been no great change m the number of overseas cargo vessels calling at the Port of Albany. The number of vessels calling at Albany in 1967- 68, 1968-69 and 1969-70 were 111, 107 and 106 respectively. 
Regarding exports of wool to U.K./Europe, the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference is now centralising Albany wool for this destination at Fremantle. The Conference has undertaken that this service through Fremantle will not cost the shipper any more than it would cost him to ship through Albany. 
This is not to say, however, that the Port of Albany is not being served on a direct basis. The Conference has provided for regular calls at Albany of conventional ships. In 1969-72 22 per cent of wool sold at Albany continued to be shipped from Albany. During the calendar year 1970, 17 ships left Albany for U.K./Europe. 
In December 1969 the former Minister for Shipping and Transport visited Albany for discussions with local authorities on problems that had arisen with the introduction of container shipping and on the question of overseas shipping to ports not served directly by container vessels. The Government's expressed concern was that no special handicaps be put in the way of exports from outlying areas. 
My predecessor has, on a number of occasions, put forward the idea that aH sectors of a community served by a particular outlying port should co-ordinate snipping requirements. In this way calls at such ports would be made more attractive commercially to shipowners. A suitable consolidating agency might be the local Harbour Board or Port Authority. 
I have been advised that the present Minister for Primary Industry visited Albany, inspected the port and examined its prospects, and following that visit further investigations were made. I want to emphasise the words of the Minister for Shipping and Transport relating to the Government's expressed concern and continued in the last  2  paragraphs of the answer to that question. I know that this Bill relates to the provision of funds to enable the Australian Wool Board to establish integrated wool selling complexes. I know that that is a limited purpose. Therefore I suggest that the Wool Board itself cannot make the necessary decisions. The Wool Board should select the most suitable site in Western Australia for the establishment of a wool selling complex. In taking this decision the Board should look into the matter in conjunction with the departments involved at the Commonwealth level - the Department of Shipping and Transport, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of the Treasury. The Board should also consult with the State Departments of Agriculture and Decentralisation in Western Australia. 
I believe that Albany, having a natural harbour and one of the best in Australia, is ideally suited for the centralisation of wool in that State. The establishment of the complex at Albany could provide a very important additional service to the town. The town itself is totally reliant on the rural industries which surround it in the Great Southern and south-western areas of the State. The sale of wool from Albany area would bring State Shipping Service ships from the north-west. With ships calling at the port of Albany to deliver wool produced on pastoral areas in the north, Albany businesses would be able to provide provisions for towns in the northern areas of the State and it would be able to transport on the State Shipping Service ships timber and sleepers for the development that is taking place in the northern parts of Western Australia. 
The position at present, with the decline in the economy of the rural sector, is that there is increasing unemployment in the district surrounding Albany. People are leaving the area. It has been one of the areas hardest hit by the decisions of the previous Liberal-Country Party State Government which opened up large areas of land for wool and wheat growing. To help offset the effects of those bad and irresponsible decisions, I suggest that an examination be made to determine what can be done to consolidate these areas and protect them from further decline. I think the establishment of a wool selling complex at Albany to serve the whole State is one measure that could help considerably. I .believe that this is a suggestion which deserves and is receiving the support of all members of this Parliament. I hope that when this Bill is passed through this House and the Senate, examinations will be made to ascertain the most suitable areas in each State for the establishment of wool selling complexes. 
I hope that full consideration will be given to the proposition which I have put forward here this afternoon. I hope too that there shall not be delay in making a very close examination of what is required in the provision of wool selling centres and what is the best way of showing our wool, selling it and shipping it. Wool is not a commodity which I think needs to be containerised. I think containerisation may bring additional expense. I believe it has even been proposed that wool may possibly be shipped almost in bulk on ore carrying ships which cannot be laden fully with ore and which have open spaces at the top of their holds which could be used for the shipment of wool to European and other ports. I commend the Bill and look forward to seeing developed in the States of Australia the complexes which will help to eliminate some of the costs which are involved at present in selling our wool and which are imposed upon the growers of this nation. I thank the Minister and the House. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has artificial breeding proved beneficial in the fields of beef and dairy production; if so, what evidence is available to support this view. 
Does this evidence indicate that the several State Artificial Breeding Boards are providing a desirable and necessary service to these industries. 
Is it a fact that sales tax charges on motor vehicles constitute a major proportion of the budgets of Artificial Breeding Boards. 
If so, will he take steps to have this sales tax burden removed from the Boards. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What Government supported schemes are currently operating to retrain workers (including farmers) in depressed industries. 
What steps does the Government intend to take to provide retraining or other rehabilitation for persons affected by economic and technological changes In the primary and secondary industries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount is received each year by way of rents from war service land settlement farms in the south-west of Western Australia. 
What has been the cost to the Commonwealth of the war service land settlement scheme in this area. 
Are the annual rentals of the War Service Land settlers able to be abolished or substantially reduced under prevailing conditions. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) servicemen and (b) servicewomen m the (i) Australian Army and (ii) Royal Australian Air Force are stationed in (A) Singapore and (B) Malaysia. 
What heavy defence equipment is supplied for these forces. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
(a) The Australian Army has about 1,500 Servicemen and 25 Servicewomen stationed in Singapore. Army also rotates a company through the Butterworth base in Malaysia, 
The Royal Australian Air Force has about 1,400 Servicemen and 25 Servicewomen in Malaysia. It also has a small number of Servicemen in Singapore. 

 Major equipments in the case of the Air Force include 2 squadrons of Mirage fighter aircraft, an air transport element of Dakotas, and Iroquois helicopter for search and rescue. In addition to normal infantry weapons and engineer and support equipment, Army equipments include 105 millimetre howitzers employed by the artillery field battery, and light observation helicopters of the Army reconnaissance flight. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What sum has been spent on the Fill project in respect of: 
purchase of spare parts etc; 
aircraft storage costs; 
payments to date for the aircraft. 
What would be the cost of cancelling the contract now. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
(a) $US52.131m has been expended to 31st March 1971. 
The question of storage charges is still to be negotiated between the United States and the Australian Governments. 
Payments for the project to 31st March 1971, are $US228.288m. 
A complete statement was presented to the House on 12th May 1970, by the former Minister for Defence on the Fill project The statement included the Agreed Minute between the United States, Secretary of Defense and the Australian Minister for Defence. The Agreed Minute refers to confirmation by the Australian Minister for Defence that certain operational and technical criteria which were mutually agreed to are fundamental requirements for the Australian strike aircraft and that an F111C that meets those requirements will be suitable for operational use. 
In the event such operational and technical criteria or any mutually agreed modification thereof are not achieved, providing Fill series aircraft are being employed in the active USAF inventory, the Department of Defense agrees, subject to the authorisation by the Congress, to accept the aircraft and associated support for adaptation to its own use and to credit the Government of Australia with an equitable reimbursement. The amount of reimbursement is subject to further refinement and negotiation, but was estimated then (April 70) by the USAF to be in the range $130 to$150m. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) Navy, (b) Army and (c) Air Force personnel are at present stationed in Vietnam. 
What was the estimated cost of Australia's involvement in Vietnam for the year ended February 1971. 
How many Australians have lost their lives in Vietnam or as the result of fighting there, and how many of these were conscripts. 
How many Australians have (a) been wounded and (b) suffered permanent disability as a result of wounding and how many of these were conscripts. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this afternoon we have heard grudging apologies for 20 years of Liberal Party policies. We find honourable members opposite grudgingly accepting the fact that China will be recognised. Although the Government has grudgingly stated that this is its policy, private members of the Libera) Party even more grudgingly are decrying that policy and are wishing that they could go back into the past from which they have come and from which they never wished to venture. I wish to answer one statement that has been made by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He claimed that the Leader of the Opposition ought to be ashamed of himself and that he is not fit to be called an Australian. The recent behaviour of the honourable member for Wannon is so well known to the Australian people that they understand which of those 2 persons is not to be trusted. A man who stabs his own Leader in the back for his own personal hopes and ambitions is one who certainly does not win honour from the Australian people. 
There are 2 things that I wish to say at the outset about the Department of Foreign Affairs. One is that I would like to see more men handle the Foreign Affairs portfolio. That statement appears rather thoughtless, I suppose, of the stability of the Department, but at least it would be of benefit to the Government. I remember the time when my predecessor was one of the worst Red baiters in this country. I remember the time when he would have been at ease in the right wing of the 
Country Party or the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Yet, when he became Minister for External Affairs, as the portfolio of Foreign Affairs was called then, he made a statement that was reasoned, sound and objective and that stands to his credit to this day. It was a statement which was quite out of character. Yet, it was made by him no doubt sincerely because of the things that he had learned while he was Minister of this Department. 
He was succeeded by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and that right honourable member was once asked how it was that his views had changed on a certain subject. He said: Since becoming Minister in charge of this Department I have learned some things about foreign affairs that I did not know'. Of course, we have seen 2 other Ministers appointed to administer that portfolio. I think that the statement by the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  shows a certain soundness and objectiveness that was lacking in his recent statements about foreign affairs because he appeared to be drifting in the direction of the right wing Democratic Labor Party stance in Australian politics. I understand the wailings and the grief of honourable members opposite to us when they stand to speak on this subject. They have counted this as one of their strongest points in the past - unfortunately, only in the recent past. I say that because at the present time history has caught up with them and has caught up with them so quickly that the people have not had a chance to forget where they stood only a few years ago and are unable to see where they stand at the present time. 
I remember when the Australian Labor Party was announcing to this country that we ought not to be involved in the Vietnam war. At the very outset of our involvement, members of the Australian Labor Party were saying that it was an immoral war, an unwinnable war and that it was a civil war. Those statements were decried by Government members. Yet, in the Pentagon papers which Government members are so reluctant to recognise, and certainly to refer to, these things are recorded. In August 1963, a United States State Department expert, by contrast with the gentlemen on the government benches, recommended that the United States pull out of 
Vietnam because there was no way the Communists could be defeated. The 'Daily News' of Friday, 25th June 1971 deals with this subject. It states: 
The report, based on the secret Pentagon documents, said that the then Secretary of State,  Mr Dean  Rusk, had brushed the recommendation aside. The report quoted  Mr Rusk  as saying: 'lt would be far better for us to start on the Arm basis of 2 things - that we will not pull out of Vietnam until the war is won, and that we will not run a coup.' 
Of course, the Americans have done both. The article continues: 
The Chicago Sun-Times in a report said to be based on the Pentagon study, said that in 1961  President  Kennedy sought a Pentagon assessment of the situation in Vietnam. The Pentagon concluded that the 'vast majority'- 
The words in inverted commas are worth repeating -   . . the 'vast majority' of Viet Cong  troops  were of local origin and that there was little evidence that they were receiving major supplies from outside. 
The article goes on: 
The Sun-Times said that President Kennedy deepened his commitment to a non-Communist South Vietnam despite a report by Charles  Maechling,  chairman of a special committee that: If free elections were to be held in South Vietnam in 1962, Ho Chi Minh would get 70 per cent of the popular vote.' 
That is a more conservative estimate than that given by President Eisenhower who assessed it at about 80 per cent - 

 Mr Maechling estimated that the Viet Cong were getting only a trickle of supplies from North Vietnam and noted that nobody, had found a Chinese rifle or Soviet weapon used by the guerillas. 
He concluded that the massive aggression theory was completely phony. 
Those figures were known before the Pentagon papers were ever publicly printed. I remember going to hear my predecessor, the former honourable member for Forrest, speak at a public meeting on the subject of our involvement in Vietnam. I asked him whether the figure I have just quoted or figures similar to those were correct when he used the argument that we were in Vietnam because China was involved. He said: 'Yes, but they are giving them moral support'. That was at a time when the United States of America had sent 125,000 men 7,500 miles across the sea to within tens of miles of the Chinese border to fight. Now, we find that we are to withdraw our troops, and the Americans are looking for a way to withdraw all their troops. At the same time, the South Vietnam Government has announced that it would consider the possibility of holding elections right across the country to elect a government for the re-unified Vietnam. The denial of elections was the very cause for our involvement in the first place. Yet all the time, honourable members opposite have said that we were in Vietnam for freedom and democracy, lt was a denial of democracy that took Australia into Vietnam in the first place because we were not prepared to accept the outcome of free elections in that country. Having travelled that ground, having come from the point where it was known in 1963 that it was an unwinnable war. where the American Government was advised not to be drawn into it, we arrived at the point from which we departed with the following result: The Vietnam war has cost the United States close to $200,000m.  It  has cost the United States 44,000 men killed in action and 7,600 aircraft lost,  he  United States has dropped 5.5 million ions of bombs, or twice the total amount of United States bombs dropped in World War II. It nas been the second most costly war for the American people. Statistics lacking include those on refugees and civilian casualties in Indo-China, enemy losses, the effects on health of herbicides used in Vietnam, the significant inflationary effect of the war on the United States economy, and the long range costs of Vietnam veterans benefits. 
The 'Australian' on Monday, 12th July 1971, deals wilh this matter. In referring to defoliation it states: 
About 5.2 million acres of forest land and 562,000 acres of South Vietnamese cropland - or nearly one-seventh of the country's land area - had been sprayed with plant-killing herbicides by the United States from 1962 to 1971. 
Turning to civilian casualties, the newspaper article continues: 
Neither the Pentagon nor the United States civilian agencies have tried to study total civilian losses due to allied military action, the researchers noted. The official figure for South Vietnamese civilians killed or kidnapped by Viet Cong terrorists from 1965 to 1971 totals 64,000. Since the beginning of 1968 more than 300 government officials have been among those killed. 
The contrast between what has been the effect of the involvement of the United States from so far away, and the little part played by the Chinese, if any, is one that we cannot fail to see. The fact that we have come through such destructive years to the point from which we departed and have gained nothing but have lost so much, clearly illustrates and portrays for the people of this country at the present time how the Government is exposed on the grounds on which it stood and for the things that it has said over recent years for political reasons. If the Government's Vietnam policy has been wrong, as has been exposed by the passage of history, so too has been its policy on China. In a statement on foreign policy made by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  it is stated: 
Peking has been recognised by Canada, Italy, Chile, Ethiopia, Equatorial Guinea, Kuwait and Cameroon and is exchanging ambassadors with Nigeria. 
Therefore, Australia wants to join the line. The Government sees that there are sufficient countries in this world - some of them of such tremendous importance - prepared to recognise China that it wishes to find a place in the line to begin diplomatic relations with China. The Government sees that the number of countries seeking to establish diplomatic relations and willing to support China's entry into the United Nations is such that China will be admitted to the United Nations either with our assistance or in spite of us. That is the situation. That is something that the Government has to accept. How grudgingly it has accepted it has been illustrated in this debate this afternoon. The position from which the Government has been fighting for the last 20 years has been eroded. Its position has been exposed as absolutely false and baseless. The Government said Australia could not recognise China because of her war-like stance in the world. President Nixon has said that we have to recognise China for the sake of peace in the future. I think that the opposite to that statement made by President Nixon is that the American Government has been prepared to court war while continuing to try to isolate China. The Australian Government, too, has done exactly the same thing. It has been prepared to court world war for the sake of maintaining a policy of non-recognition of China and for the sake of not creating diplomatic relations with China. This position has been untenable and has been exposed as untenable. The Government has been caught in a comprising position. One might say that the Government has been caught with its pants down and is behaving like someone who has been caught with his pants down. 
We have seen the Prime Minister scuffle from one side of the stage to the other overnight. He was preparing himself to maintain a stance of opposition to China. In a talk at Launceston one day he was leaning further and further to the right. Then  President  Nixon made his announcement that he would seek an opportunity to visit China. In an interview at Tullamarine Airport, the Prime Minister was most annoyed to learn this. He said he did not know of it and his behaviour exposed that he did not know of it. However, the very next day he said that he had had a communication about the United States' situation and was informed. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  says that he was not informed. Once again, of course, the Prime Minister was telling an untruth, as comes so easily to him and as he does so frequently. 
When  Mr Anthony  was asked about his opinion of  Mr Whitlam's  tour of China he said: 
I wouldn't criticise  Mr Whitlam's  visit to China on purely political grounds; I think some of his actions there were a little indiscreet, but if it can help in improving relationships with the Western world, then he's doing a service. 
In conclusion I should like to read some words from a man who has had experience in the Ministry to show how they expose the Government's position.  Mr Gorton  said- 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice:  " (1) How many West Irianese citizens have been returned, or have been ordered to return, to West Irian by Australian Government authorities? 
How many of these people were (a) men and (b) men accompanied by their families? 
How many of those concerned (a) sought and (b) were granted political asylum? 
What efforts are made by Government authorities to determine what happens to persons returned to West Irian? 
What penalties are known to have been imposed upon citizens returned to West Irian? 
Have there been any Indonesian troop incursions into the Australian Territories; if so, when, where- and with what results? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of onehomemaker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 1 address my question to the Minister for the Interior. Following upon my correspondence with him regarding the rights of 18 to 20-year-old persons to vote in Federal elections under section 41 of the Constitution, what is the reason for the Government's refusal to allow 18 to 20-year-old persons to vote in Federal elections in States where they have the right to vote for their State parliaments? Is this refusal a further indication of the Liberal-Country Party desires to avoid decisions of the people whenever possible, as with gerrymandered electorates and preferential voting? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
I  present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. that incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be - created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And y.our petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Trade and Industry have the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation meet the Minister for Decentralisation in Western Australia to examine ways of encouraging the establishment of industry in country areas? As the Minister for Decentralisation in Western Australia has recently announced his wish to see industry established in the Albany region, will the Minister find in what ways the Commonwealth might assist with present and future proposals? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House condemns the Budget because (a) it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security.' 
There is no point in my appealing to members of the Government Parties on the first ground of the amendment that I have just read. I am sure that the honourable gentlemen opposite are completely inured to broken pledges and conflicting statements made by successive Prime Ministers in recent years. In fact it would appear from the events of the past 6 months that we have reached the nadir in political leadership and public credibility. The traumas associated with years of leadership struggles culminating - in the circumstances surrounding the accession of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  certainly have destroyed any finer feelings in honourable members opposite and certainly have deadened any nerves that would respond to an appeal on the ground of broken pledges. The in-fighting and the insecurity engendered by a string of ministerial changes and sackings associated, as they have been, wilh leadership at once vacillating and contradictory have destroyed their responsiveness and cowed them into submission. 
The country is crying out for concerted action. Instead it receives changing administrations. The country is crying out for vision at the top. Instead it receives vacillation. The country is crying out for integrity at the highest level. Instead it receives intrigue. The country desperately needs leadership for country people. Instead it is given the Country Party. The people cry out for bread and the Government gives them a stone. Therefore, though the plight of people reliant upon social services is extreme, there is no hope of any help from the Government. Perhaps there is nothing more urgent than a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them; yet while a pledge has been given, it will not be realised this side of an election. 
Since pensioners are given a stone instead of bread, with complete equanimity by honourable members opposite, we will have to appeal to them on the remaining 2 grounds of our amendment. Firstly, the Budget contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government. Honourable members opposite may be inured to the plight of people reliant upon social services and be equally inured to the nadir reached in public credibility under the leadership of recent Prime Ministers, but surely they must be aware of and concerned about the present condition of State and local government indebtedness. The situation is one about which our Leader has been sounding warnings for some years, lt is a situation that he pronounced as urgent and becoming grave some years ago in his speech on the Budget at that time. The inclusion in his speech of matters directly  Tei  a ted to local government at that time drew scorn from members of the Government; , yet now we find people at almost every level of society recognising the need foi direct assistance from the Commonwealth to local government bodies. Local government bodies themselves are becoming increasingly perturbed about the situation that most of them are confronting. 
In Western Australia steep rate increases last year have been followed by further steep increases this year in many towns and shires. Rural councils are faced, too, with diminishing incomes due to the rural debt. Many farmers and townspeople cannot afford to pay council rates. The new State Government of Western Australia has conducted an urgent survey of shires to establish the extent of the problem and it is preparing to act to alleviate the condition that exists. Yet the present State Government has a record State deficit which it inherited and which has to be reduced. At the same time the State Government of 
Western Australia has to correct what the present Minister for Lands and Agriculture,  Mr H.  D. Evans, termed as the compass condition of the previous Government, which always seemed to be pointing north. 
The new State Government in Western Australia has created a portfolio of decentralisation under which it has set up a committee to examine problems in the Albany region and another committee to examine problems in the Collie region. As with other rural areas, a need exists for policies to assist with education for country children, employment for country people, for rural reconstruction and for retraining schemes for people forced to leave farms or affected in other ways by redundancy. All these matters are urgent and do require early attention. 
Because State governments already face crises in health, education and other fields, contributed to in no small part by the indifference of Liberal-Country Party Federal governments, an urgent need exists for the closest liaison between State and Federal governments to meet the problems that currently exist and that are developing. As the need is urgent and as no provision is made in this Budget that even suggests that the Government recognises the problems - far less is intending to meet them - I ask honourable members opposite to support the amendment moved So ably by our Leader. I ask them to read carefully his speech and the Australian Labor Party platform and, having done so, to vote with the Opposition to carry the amendment. We can discover then the will of the people on the multiplicity of problems which have grown up under successive anti-Labor governments. 
Secondly, I appeal to them on the third ground of our amendment, that is, that this Budget produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. The reason for the validity of this ground probably was revealed when the Prime Minister was interviewed by Time" magazine. Having answered all the questions for which he had been able to make preparation, he was asked: 'What of the future?' Whereupon, the Prime Minister shuffled through his papers in much the same way as he shuffles minis terial portfolios, and came up with a little  less--  nothing. He revealed himself as a man tied to the past with absolutely no vision for the future.  His  party is devoid of a vision, let alone any plan, for the future. Thus, we have a Budget that provides nothing even in the short term that could be construed as a programme for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. 
One of the Government's more able and energetic Ministers - the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is at the table at the present time - has, as he has said, prepared a scheme for improved social welfare. It would seem that there is one Minister who has sat down to come to grips with one of Australia's most pressing needs. Yet he is the Minister who has the most tenuous hold on a place in the Ministry. The Prime Minister resolutely refuses to allow him to present his scheme to Parliament. 
On the question of the failure to provide for economic strength, we have the Prime.. Minister's .own statement that we can expect 100,000 unemployed by Christmas. We have the steady growth towards that figure which has been quickened since the presentation of the Budget, and we have the recently published report of the ACMA-Bank of New South Wales survey all of which, coupled with the recession in primary industry, reveals the ineffectiveness of Liberal-Country Party governments and their economic policies. 
Yesterday, I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to contact the Minister for Decentralisation in Western Australia with a view to discovering ways in which the State and Federal governments might encourage industry in country areas. I believe that the need to examine the things that the Leader of the Opposition has been saying for many years about urban development and cities is urgent. I believe that, in this area, as in the area of local government and Commonwealth financial arrangements the Leader of the Opposition has provided an important stimulus to Australian thinking. We need encouragement to be given by both the State governments and the Federal Government to all industries and bodies that can create the conditions that will lead to the growth of towns within country areas, so that employment opportunities might be created in pleasant, wellplanned, decentralised regions, while at the same time stemming the flow of people into capital cities that will become increasingly more unpleasant and more smog' bound. 1 believe that the south western part of the State of Western Australia lends itself well to such a plan if one were proceeded with. The region is serviced by the ports of Albany in the south and Bunbury in the west. AH of the State's butter fat, most of its milk, coarse grains, vegetables, meat, most of the State's timber, all of its tin and coal and most of its beach sands, etc., are produced in the area. The main towns of the region include Bunbury, Busselton, Collie, Manjimup and Albany, all of which could provide the nucleus for development and decentralised industries. 1 hope that the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the State Government, will examine prospects within the region and perhaps make it a testing area for policies of decentralisation. 
I might say to the Minister for Trade and Industry that, by contrast with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  I believe that Country Party members are the greatest stumbling block in the way of decentralisation. I know that they talk about it often. I also know that they have been in government for 20-odd years without doing anything about decentralisation. During most of those ' years, their Ministers have held the portfolios directly related to that area of responsibility. I believe that they publicly stand for decentralisation but privately resist it to enable them to hold country seats. Therefore, I hasten to inform the Minister for Trade and Industry that the electorate of Forrest need not be precluded from consideration on that ground. The Country Party receives only 10 per cent of the vote in the Forrest electorate. 
In the interim, I believe that the Government should act swiftly to see. that no child is precluded from attending school or university because of the financial circumstances of its parents. In country areas today, people are experiencing the greatest difficulty in maintaining children at schools and universities away from home. In the interim, too, I believe special measures should be implemented to reduce telephone and telegraph costs between country areas and cities. I ask, too, that the Government act with expedition to bring down measures to provide opportunities for retraining and re-establishment for all persons affected by redundancy or debt. 
I believe that the circumstances confronting us in Australia today more than for many years call for statesmanship. I believe that statesmanship is the quality most lacking in the front bench opposite and that the problems confronting us at the moment require extraordinary measures. I commend to honourable members opposite the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I commend to them the thought that they, because of the needs of the nation and because of the total lack of competence within the leadership of their Government, should take necessary action to obtain a mandate for one leader or another in this place. Stability in Government, I submit, will be found only in that way. Honourable members opposite can demonstrate their statesmanlike qualities by voting for the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister announced in my electorate that he wished to hold an early election. Let him seek a mandate on this Budget and on his record. Let honourable members opposite grant him his wish by voting on this occasion for the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of 1 home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We have been treated this evening to a talk on the importance of patriotism. We on this, side of the. House have been charged with having no regard or little regard for the men in the Services of this country. Indeed we have been lectured and treated to pontification, exceeded only by that of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  by a gentleman who is known as the chameleon from Kennedy because he is a man who has moved from the extreme left of politics to the extreme right. I refer to. the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr. Katter).  When he contested a seat for the Australian Democratic Labor Party and found that Party could not win a seat in this House, he changed his political beliefs for those of the Australian Country Party so that he might find his way into this place. The honourable member for Kennedy tries to adapt his colours to suit the' occasion in an effort to win over to himself the support of the people in his electorate. 
I want to say at the outset that I in common with my colleagues on this side of the House have nothing but the highest respect for the men who have fought for this country in the various wars in which it has been involved. In contrast to honourable members opposite we on this side believe that those men acquitted themselves' well in a war in which we should never have been involved. The question is not one of the conduct of our men in Vietnam. The question is the conduct of this Government in sending them there and maintaining them in Vietnam, and most especially the attitude of the Government in introducing conscription and allowing conscripts to be sent to that war, some to be injured and some to be killed. It is we who most strongly regret that; it is we who feel for the soldiers. 1 would hope that at the forthcoming election there will be somebody who will take up in the electorate of Kennedy the issue of Vietnam and conscription, and the other important issues that face this country at the present time, as 1 did in the electorate of Forrest in 1966 and again in 1969. It was mainly on those 2 issues that the Australian Labor Party won the seat of Forrest from the then Minister for External Affairs. 1 believe that conscription is morally unjustifiable except in circumstances such as those that prevailed in 1941. Only a repetition of those circumstances would justify the introduction and practice of national service in this country. We. have been told tonight that we must be prepared for an invasion. This country has a phobia in that we have been afraid of invasion ever since settlement in 1 788. Probably that fear springs from the fact that we are the southland and have a feeling that the laws of gravity will operate to cause people to fall down upon us, forgetting that there are oceans to be crossed and lines of communication to be maintained by any army invading these shores. 
I refer honourable members opposite who have used the fear of invasion as the basis of their argument for national service to a recent statement of their former leader, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  that he sees very little or almost no likelihood at all of Australia's being involved in war within the next 10 years. I also advise them to obtain from the Parliamentary Library, in their quieter and saner moments, a book on Australia's defence edited by Gelber in which they will find an article written by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  It is a reasoned and well informed argument by a man who was a professional sailor. He points out the reasons why Australia is in no danger of imminent invasion, or even invasion within the foreseeable future. I refer honourable members opposite to both those authorities, one a former Prime Minister and Minister for Defence and the other a former professional serviceman. 
I am opposed to conscription because it requires inequitable sacrifice. Members of a small section of the community are called upon to give up to 2 years of their lives in military service. Some are required to fight outside this country, while others spend their period of service in almost constant boredom. One of the main complaints I have had from national servicemen is that they have too little to do and must spend most of their time bored stiff, doing nothing because there is nothing for them to do in this country. 
One of the arguments I have heard from officers in the forces who wish to maintain the numbers in the Services is that their only hope of promotion is in a large army. They do not wish to remain in the lower ranks any longer than necessary. I believe there is no justification for national service now and that there was none when it was introduced. My authority for that statement is a former Minister for Health and former Minister for the Army. I do not know what portfolio he has at present because Ministers change so frequently that it is hard to keep up with them. About a fortnight before national service was introduced he said that the best military advice was against it. Yet this Government is supposed to be swayed by the best military advice, even when that advice leads to investment in Fill aircraft which were needed, it was said, to protect us from invasion that was to take place in 1963. 
I believe that national service is wasteful of talents. Most of the men who are inducted into the forces are tradesmen or professional men. They must be of such a standard to pass the educational examination, it seems. Apparently they must also be exceedingly fit, since 70 per cent of men called up are rejected on the ground that they are medically unfit. Young men called up for national service would be better employed in the teaching profession, medical profession or other professions and trades, rather than wasting their time in Australia, if they are not sent overseas, or being exposed to the risk of being maimed or killed in Vietnam in a war that is indefensible and in which we should never have been involved. I believe that national service is unjustifiable on the ground of the waste of the talents of the men involved in it. 
I believe that because the situation is as the right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable member for Isaccs said it to be, it is an ideal time for Australia, along with other nations, to be actively pursuing the means of bringing about a situation in which peace might prevail and in trying to bring calm in the. places where war is now taking place and where we are not involved and where, I believe, we ought not to become involved in the same way as we ought not to have become involved in Vietnam. Australia should be doing far more than it is now doing in trying to assuage the troubles in Pakistan and in bringing about a better understanding between the East and the West and in relieving the suffering and the anguish of people "Who have become refugees through the struggle that has taken place there. 
I believe that if we open this Parliament every day with prayers and if we adopt these trappings we . should apply more of the Christian spirit in our outlook and approach to life and' try to find how it can be practically applied to bring about" conditions in which peace will prevail and in which men will learn to live together. The Government has this responsibility and, because war is not imminent in the foreseeable future, now is an ideal time for us to be spending some of the money, which we are now spending on defence and wasting in other areas, to bring about conditions of peace. I hasten to add that my motivation is one that comes directly from the Scriptures and has nothing whatever to do with a lesser ideology that is holding sway in areas of this world because Christian people do not take seriously enough their own faith and do not try to apply it to this life. I believe that conscription is unjustifiable on moral and religious grounds. If we claim, as we sometimes do, to be a Christian nation, we should look at what that implies much more closely than we normally do. . 
The Christian has 3 attitudes to war and peace. Taking them in historical order they are the doctrine of outright . Christian pacificism, the doctrine . of Christian nonpacificism, which involves the doctrine of the just war, and the doctrine of the crusade. I do not think anyone would want me to argue for the crusade because noone believes in it any more. However, the other 2 attitudes are relevant. The doctrine of Christian pacificism is a doctrine that is founded upon the life, the teachings and the example of Christ. He showed in His life that the way to overcome was by loving one's enemy, by forgiveness and by self-sacrifice. He apparently was defeated at Calvary and yet, if the Christian faith is correct, He rose triumphant over the worst that could be done to Him and came back to make a new faith out of 11 men who had wilted and failed at the time of his arrest. We believe that the things that were achieved in the early church, the changes that were wrought and the good influence that the Church has had from that time to this are indications of what can be done if the Christian faith is taken seriously and applied in political and other areas. Many people in the community claim to be Christian and those who accept the doctrine of Christian pacificism can apply for exemption from national service on the grounds of conscientious' objection. 
The only other ground that is open to Christian people is that of Christian nonpacificism. The Christian non-pacificist says that he cannot take to himself the characteristics crf Christ - that Christ was unique and that he is human and therefore he must adopt a different approach. He says that war - by contrast with selfsacrifice, loving one's enemies and forgiveness - can be justified when it is fought to maintain justice and right, and only in those circumstances. In fact, the doctrine pf Christian non-pacificism has as one of its major tenets the doctrine of the just war. Some of the points that undergird that doctrine are these: 
War 'must be just as to its intent - which is to restore peace. 
The object of war is to vindicate undoubted justice. 
The war must be undertaken by a lawful authority. 
The conduct of the war must be just. Methods and materials used must be consistent with man's nature as a rational being. Only combatants must be involved. 
The cause for which the war Is to be fought must undoubtedly warrant the possible cost of the war. 
I believe that as that is the doctrine which underlies the doctrine of Christian nonpacificism, there cannot be in the present world a just war. There is no longer a war in which only combatants are involved. There is no. longer the likelihood of a war being fought with full respect being granted to the Geneva Conventions. There is every possibility that such a war will become a nuclear war in which case the possible costs will certainly far outweigh the possible good for which the war is waged. In fact the whole world could be lost and whole peoples - most of them innocents - wiped out. I believe that many more Christian people ought to know that there are 2 grounds only open to them, in which case there would be far more people applying on conscientious objection grounds for exemption from war. Because they are the only 2 grounds, I believe that the practice of national service is morally and religiously unjustifiable. 
Before 1 resume my seat I wish to refer, on the same note, to something that has been referred to already by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  Provision exists within this Bill for the exemption from national service of theological students, ministers of religion and members of religious orders. I believe that that provision ought not be there. Somebody has said already that it dates back to medieval times - indeed, that is true - when the Church used to promote wars and the people who used to do most of the promoting were sacroscanct and able to stay home and to send others to fight for them on the assurance that their souls would be saved. Because of that provision being made in medieval times, it has been written into al) similar legislation through the years to the present time. 
I believe that if that provision were removed from the legislation far more ministers of religion and theological students would know what are the doctrines of war and peace of the Christain Church and would not only be seeking exemption on conscientious grounds for themselves but also be taking a far more active part in opposing wars and in trying to bring about the establishment of peace. One ground which all Christians - those who are pacifists and those who are nonpacifists - hold in common is the belief that peace is something that has to be pursued; that peace is not something that just happens; that- peace is not just an absence of war temporarily; but that peace is something which must be fought for and as much spent on fighting for it as is spent on defence so-called. 
I hope that, in the future, we shall see governments in this world spending as much on trying to bring about the conditions in which peace will prevail as they spend at present on preparations for war. I hope that we will see leadership given throughout the world by churches which are unique - or which ought to enjoy a unique position - in that they have within their membership people of all possible colours and of every nation. They ought to be able to have a feeling of patriotism that is above that of the nation and which will lead them to try to reach across barriers and understand instead of the patriotism of nationalism which builds up pride only in one's nation and a feeling of superiority over people of a different nation, because this is one of the causes of strife within the world. I believe in patriotism to something higher - patriotism to the world. 1 believe that patriotism which is born of the love of all men ought to be something to which we should aspire rather than that narrow patriotism of love of nation to which we are born. I believe that patriotism to one's nation is important but that it is secondary to our love of all men and our love to the world as a whole. 
Therefore I believe that the National Service Act has been, from its very beginnings, unjustifiable on many grounds. It is unjustifiable on economic grounds, on the ground of the suffering it causes to people, on the ground that it takes from our nation men who are in the position where they can use their newly attained skills in trades and professions and on the ground of the suffering it brings to the few families that are involved. I hope that our amendment will be accepted, or failing that, that within the next 12 months we will see supporters of the Liberal-Country Parties on the Opposition benches and members of the Opposition on the Government benches. When that stage is reached we will have sufficient numbers to wipe conscription legislation off the statute book and we will leave it off the statute book until a situation arises - if it ever does arise - such as that which arose in 1941, and only under such circumstances would we re-introduce legislation of this kind. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Irwin)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 6a. Section 29 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of subsection 1.' 
The clauses referred to in my amendment read: 
persons who are students at a theological college as defined by the regulations or are theological students as prescribed; 
ministers of religion; and 
members of a religious order who devote the whole of their time to the duties of the order and persons who are students at a college maintained solely for training persons tobecome members of a religious order. 
Those persons are exempt from rendering service under the provisions of the National Service Act. I have read the Hansard report of the debates which took place following the introduction of this Act but I could not find any reference by the then Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr McMahon)  to this matter and it was not raised during the committee stage. This is a provision that has been made in this type of legislation from the late Roman times through the medieval period and it has been taken to be normal procedure up until the present time. I oppose these exemptions on 2 main grounds. Firstly, this either reeks of discrimination or of privilege. I think for honourable members on the Government side it would suggest discrimination against clergymen and others in religious services but from our side we suggest that there is a hint of privilege. 
This provision in the Act is very similar to one in the Western Australian Electoral Act. People who are disqualified from standing for Parliament in Western Australia include persons who are clergymen, undischarged bankrupts or debtors whose affairs are in the course of liquidation arrangements, persons involved in or convicted of treason or felony in any part of Her Majesty's dominions or persons holding contracts for public service. This group later included people of unsound mind who were wholly dependent on relief from the State or from any charitable institution, etc. I believe it is a bad law. I do not know why the Church is discriminated against in that way. I believe that there will be an amendment made to the Western Australian Electoral Act in the near future. 
I believe that churchmen ought to be treated in exactly the same way as other citizens of this country. I do not know why they should be discriminated against in the way that they are in the Western Australian Electoral Act or in the way that they are discriminated against in the National Service Act. Why should not they be called up in the same way as doctors, teachers, workers, tradesmen and others? Their work is essential to the community but no more essential than the occupations I have listed. They are people of equal standing with other people in the community and they ought not to be discriminated against in this way. If it is not a matter of discrimination then it is a matter of privilege. I believe that the Church ought not have extended to it these sorts of privileges. I believe there is adequate provision in the Act for conscientious objection and I believe that if ministers of religion hold conscientious objections they ought to establish their beliefs in the courts in exactly the same way as any other citizen in the community. I believe it would be a good thing for them and for this country if that were the position because they would have to clarify their own points of view and their own opinions. Being faced with this situation they would probably become stronger advocates of pacificism and be opposed to a country becoming engaged very easily in a war. 
I do not believe that this sort of privilege is good for the Church or for the community. I believe it is not good for the Church on historical grounds. Where the Church has found too easy a place and too comfortable a place within society it has become ineffective, it has lost sight of its mission, it has become weak and it has set up no dichotomy within the society in which it works. I believe the Church ought to set up a standard other than that which is generally accepted in the community and I believe that if this amendment is carried it will help to bring about this situation. Because the Church is extended too many privileges in the British Empire as it was and in the Australian society today it has led to the Church being far too acquiescent in her duties and in her missions to the nation. I think that the removal of this privilege or discrimination, whichever it is, will help her to find her true place and her true mission. On those grounds and because there is adequate provision within the Act, on the ground of conscientious objection, for men who are in religious orders or who are training for religious orders to establish that they hold conscientious objection, the same as any other citizen in the community may, I believe that this provision ought not to remain in the Act. For those reasons I have moved for the deletion of those paragraphs of section 29. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Proposed new clause 6a. 
-! support the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  for all the reasons stated by him. At present there is serving a sentence in the Bunbury gaol within my electorate a man who was a lecturer in economics at the university. He is conscientiously opposed to the war in Vietnam and conscientiously apposed to conscription. For this reason he refused to register for national service. He will be required to serve 2 years in gaol, wasting his time. The only person who will be advantaged from his being there is another prisoner who happens to be studying leaving certificate standard economics while in the gaol. So the university lecturer is spending his time in the Bunbury gaol teaching economics. I suggest that this is unreasonable. 
A man who has a very important part to play in society will languish in gaol for 2 years, during which time the university is to be robbed of his talents, his time and his abilities. He is absolutely wasted while he languishes in gaol without any hope of parole. Yet I venture to say that in this case, as in every other case where a person has been imprisoned under this Act, he is a person who otherwise would not have come into conflict with the law throughout his lifetime or had a criminal record when he came to the end of his life. But now, for the remainder of their lives, these people will have this blot on their characters, and  a  criminal record. I suggest that that is unjust and unjustifiable, and that their treatment is completely unequal to that applied in other cases. That is one of the worst features of this Act. 
People have been confined to gaol under the provisions of this Act because of their beliefs, whereas there are other people in the community who hold the same beliefs and think in exactly the same way but are different only in that they have the advantage of being members of a Christian church or some other faith with a set doctrine which enables them to go into court, state the doctrine and say that they conscientiously hold that belief. They are exonerated and there is no conviction. A person who does not have that advantage, yet holds those beliefs just as strongly but is unable to refer to a religious tenet or doctrine, has to serve 2 years in gaol without any hope of parole. I believe that this situation is as inequitable as the other point to which I referred earlier when debating another amendment, that is, that one small group of 20-year-olds should be called upon to bear the responsibility for national service in this country. I suggest that the situation is totally unequal and inequitable. 
At present people who hold a Christian belief of non-pacificism can avoid service for a particular war by quoting the tenets regarding a just war, to which I referred in my speech on the second reading, yet people who are atheists or agnostics, or people who have no particular belief other than that national service is unjustifiable and inequitable, and hold this view just as firmly as the Christian, are liable to imprisonment. Although the Christian will be released by the Court, as happened in a case in which I was indirectly involved, the non-Christian, because of the inequity of this legislation, will find himself serving 2 years imprisonment without any hope of parole. In my view this is unequal treatment; it is inequitable and completely unjustifiable. Therefore I ask honourable members to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respecfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And you petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare In the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing,'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Bill before the House is the Western Australia (South-West Region Water Supplies) 
Agreement Bill 1971. When introducing the Bill the Minister for the Army and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  said that it was being introduced in order to amend the Western Australia (South-West Region Water Supplies) Agreement Act of 1965. He said it was designed to provide an extra SI. 5m to bridge the gap caused by increased costs since the original Bill was passed through the House. He went on to point out that the Commonwealth is providing the money to the State Government in the form of a loan, repayable over 15 years, on a dollar for dollar basis. When the late  Mr Holt  introduced the 1965 Bill, he said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain the approval of Parliament to an agreement between the Commonwealth and Western Australia for the provision of financial assistance to the State to accelerate extensions to the comprehensive water supply scheme in the south-west of the State. . . . The comprehensive water scheme was originally planned, in 1946, to extend over 12 million acres, but was subsequently modified to 4 million acres. The Commonwealth Government of the day agreed to assist the modified scheme and for this purpose the sum of Sm was provided on a 1 for 1 basis with the State under the Western Australia Grant (Water Supply) Act 1948- 1957. The modified scheme was completed in 1961-62. 
In 1963, the Government of Western Australia sought further financial assistance to accelerate desirable extensions to the scheme, which the State had been financing from its own resources since termination of the Commonwealth assistance. . . . The purpose of the scheme is to provide water for stock and domestic purposes only and not for irrigation. 
As the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has stated, the scheme provides essential water. It takes water from the coastal areas around Perth and. Collie and carries it to the wheat belt where it is needed for land which is dry. The water is used to service homes and sheep watering points. The scheme is moving to its conclusion. The money which the Commonwealth has given to assist the State in bridging finance has been very important and has played an essential part in ensuring that this project comes to a conclusion. Under the present circumstances I believe that this measure ought to be a reminder to us of the need for the Commonwealth to provide money to assist the States with urgent and very essential public works. At the present time the areas being serviced by this water scheme are experiencing grave problems and therefore very careful consideration ought to be given to extending the scheme where it is warranted. But if extensions are not warranted what is warranted is Commonwealth assistance for other public works to keep in employment people who are presently threatened with unemployment, including some of those who will be drawing on this water as farmers. Commonwealth assistance is needed vitally in the south west areas that are served by this water scheme. It is needed also in areas outside the scheme - in the Plantagenet-Albany area, in the Bunbury-Collie area and in the BridgetownManjimup area. 
Some little while ago I asked the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  who was in Western Australia whether he would communicate with the Minister for Decentralisation in Western Australia to determine what the Commonwealth could do to assist the Western Australian Government to encourage industry and work in the south west of that State. Co-operation on the same lines as is provided in this Bill is required urgently to alleviate some of the unemployment which is already existing in the area and which is worsening as it is in most of Australia. As I said to the Acting Prime Minister at that time, the Forrest electorate is ideally suited for testing out policies of decentralisation because it will not affect the Country Party vote. It secures only 10 per cent of the vote in the area as it is, so it is one area where we can get down to the serious work of ascertaining what can be done by way of decentralisation without affecting Country Party representation. The people in the area are wise enough to know that even though they are country people their interests are not served by that Party. They give only 27 per cent of their vote to the Liberals, too. In spite of that, the Government should see what can be done to give the State assistance in the same way as is being done in this Bill to undertake further public works. I commend this thought to the Minister and to the House. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, as you will know 18 to 20-year-old persons in Western Australia have the right to vote and they exercised that right at the last State election. You will . know also that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  said that the Federal Government would introduce the right to vote for 18 to 20-year-olds at the federal level. You will know also that section 41 of the Commonwealth Constitution provides: 
No adult person who has or acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall, while the right continues, be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting at elections for either House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
Now 1 am sure that you would have expected that, under that provision of the Constitution, 18 to 20-year-olds in Western Australia would be entitled to vote at a Federal election and that 18 to 20-year- olds in New South Wales, South Australia and other States, when legislation was introduced to provide to those people the right to vote in elections in those States, would similarly be entitled to vote at a Federal election. 
Because of that provision and because in Western Australia the right of this age group to vote had been exercised in a State election, I wrote to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  on 29th June. I asked him what instructions had been issued by his Department to chief electoral officers in each of the States in which the voting age had been lowered to facilitate the enrolment of those newly eligible to vote? I asked, further, what procedures would be adopted in the event of an election if no instructions had been issued. I asked, finally, what advice should be given to inquiring 18 to 20-year-olds in Western Australia who had the right to vote for the more numerous House in that State and whether the Federal Government was intending to extend the right to vote to all 18 to 20-year-olds across Australia, as was promised by the right honourable member for Higgins. 
The Minister for the Interior sent this reply to me: 
I refer again to your letter dated 29 June 1971 seeking my advice on various electoral matters relating to the lowering of the franchise age. 
The answers to the queries raised by you are as follows: 
and (d) Although legislation has been passed in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia lowering the enrolment and voting age to 18 years for State elections, the new legislation is operative only in Western Australia. 
The Federal Government has not yet considered the question of lowering the franchise age for Federal elections and no instructions relating to this matter have been issued to the chief Electoral Officer or the Commonwealth Electoral Officers. 
Changes in procedures will not be determined until the franchise age is changed. 
Persons in the 18-20 year old age group who seek advice about enrolment and voting entitlement for Federal elections might be informed that the government has not yet considered the question of lowing the franchise age. 
As that provision is in the Constitution I contacted the Minister's Department again to find out what it intended to do about this matter because I believe that the provision was clearly there for these people to vote at Federal elections since they had the right to vote at State elections. I was told that the Government had decided that this was not so. The reason was the word adult' in the provision that no adult person who has or acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall be prevented from voting at Federal elections. 1 believe that the Department is going outside the intention of the Constitution. Perhaps under Commonwealth law the Department's interpretation is legally correct; but, as I said, I believe it is not in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution. 
During question time I asked the Minister for the Interior the following question: 
I address my question to the Minister for the Interior. Following upon my correspondence with him- 
I was careful to mention that so that he would know that this was something on which he had given me a decision and also because he has a facility for remembering correspondence from members on the Country Party benches - regarding the rights of 18 to 20-year-old persons to vote in Federal elections under section 41 of the Constitution, what is the reason for the Government's refusal . . . 
I had been told that it had refused - to allow 18 to 20-year-old persons to vote in Federal elections in States where they have the right to vote for their State parliaments? Is this refusal a further indication of the Liberal-Country Party desires to avoid decisions of the people wherever possible, as with gerrymandered electorates and preferential voting? 
The Minister's answer was as follows: 
This is a matter of Government policy and it has not yet been resolved. 
The Minister had given me a decision; so this was not a matter of Government policy. I discussed the matter with him afterwards and he asked me to place a question on the notice paper. My question was placed on the notice paper on 10th September, which is 6 weeks ago. I think the question is simple enough but I have not received a reply to it. My question is as follows: 
What is the reason for the Government's decision to withhold the right to vote from persons 18 to 20 years old when they have the right to vote in State elections in certain States. 
Will the situation be any different when the Adulthood Bills in respect of 18 year old persons are enacted in the various States. 
This is what is intended in Western Australia. I believe that that is a simple enough question and one which should not have taken 6 weeks to answer, just as I believe that the question I directed to the Minister at question time was simple enough and certainly was not a matter of policy because it was a matter on which the Government had made a decision. I asked what the reasons were because the Government's attitude appeared to me to be in conflict with the spirit of section 41 of the Constitution. 
I am of the opinion that this is a further indication of the Liberal-Country Party desire to restrict the franchise wherever possible. We know that it was not very long ago thai there were property qualifications for the franchise in Western Australia. We know that this qualification still exists in the election of upper houses in the Parliaments of South Australia and Tasmania. Also, we know that these Parties have resisted every extension of the franchise. I believe that the refusal of the Government to give 18 year olds a vote is a further indication of the Liberal-Country Party's desire to restrict the franchise at the federal level. 1 think the reasons for this must be that the Liberal-Country Party saw that the first election in which 18 to 20 year olds voted resulted in a Labor government being returned in Western Australia and it has associated those 2 facts. I believe that it is not quite as simple as that. 
When the former Liberal-Country Party Government of Western Australia removed the property franchise in that State it still resisted an expression of the will of the people by the way in which it drew up boundaries and by the operation of preferential voting. We have a situation as reflected in the figures from the last Legislative Council elections in Western Australia. In those elections in the metropolitan area the Labor Party received 149,094 votes for which it received 2 seats; the Liberal Party received 78,701 votes for which it received 3 seats. In the agriculture, mining and pastoral areas the Labor Party with 63,698 votes received 1 seat, the Liberal Party with 43,868 votes received 5 seats and the Country Party with 25,035 votes received 2 seats. This was achieved by the way in which boundaries are drawn, by the combinations of seats that return Labor members into one Upper House seat and in other areas of combining 2 anti-Labor seats with one Labor Assembly seat to make up a Council area. I believe that we live under one of the most manipulated electoral systems in the world. As I have said before, it smacks of guided democracy. We are still suffering from the decisions made at the turn of the century. We have never been able to get majorities in the Upper House so as to be able to alter electoral legislation and accordingly we have never been able to obtain equitable boundaries. I believe that the decision made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  with regard to 18 to 20-year olds in Western Australia, where they have the right to vote and where they ought to have it under section 41 of the Constitution, in refusing to introduce legislation to operate throughout the Commonwealth is a clear indication of the desire of this Government to restrict the franchise as far as possible. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of Ibo House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker* assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of bousing, "home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think in the last couple of days we hate seen the nadir of government administration and policy approach reached with the statement made by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  that he expected that there would be an early election next year fought on issues of industrial relations because the Government intends to bring in such industrial legislation as will create trouble and cause strikes. Having done that the Government will go to the people and hope that it will be returned because of the trouble which it apparently set out to cause. Having set out to create this situation, since it anticipates that that is what will occur, the Government will then be returned to office. I think in the circumstances those are good tactics because we have seen over the last couple of years that this Government is completely devoid of any constructive and worthwhile policies, and its only ability is that of reaction. No positive steps have been taken to come to grips with the unemployment situation, which is worsening. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that by Christmas or early in the New Year there could be 120,000 out of work, and others have estimated that the figure could be even higher. Yet we are given no indication of what the Government intends to do to reverse this trend. It is a trend which is showing its effect in every area of our society. It is seen in the metropolitan areas. It is seen in the country areas.- It is something that is common' to the whole of the country. Yet nothing seems to be done on the part of the Government. The Australian Labor Party has asked at election times where it is to obtain funds to implement its policies. We can see areas for economies in this one Department alone in the Department of Labour and National Service. For instance, in the last 12 months there has been a 20 per cent increase in unemployment benefit payments. In 1970-71 the figure was $10,795,135. It must be remembered that this money is being paid to people from whom we are getting no work at all - people who are receiving no income and who therefore contribute nothing in income tax. So we ar; losing on both counts. By returning these people to the work force we not only cease to have to pay this $10m but also we gain an increase in income lax and an increase in the country's production. 
Of course, under a Labor government the 'National Service' part of the Department of Labour and National Service would be eliminated. This would cease the ineffective and inefficient system of maintaining the numbers in the Services. Labor would retain within, the work force the people who have been trained for trades and professions and thereby have the benefit of their production and their income tax injected into the economy. This would provide a saving to the Treasury which could be directed into other constructive avenues. In my electorate alone the situation is revealed by the official figures of the Department of Labour and National Service. The figure in Albany has increased from 55 males and 71 females in 1969 to 226 males and 78 females in 1971. In Bunbury the figure has increased from 198 males and 249 females in 1969 to 287 males and 179 females in 1971. 
We had in the Press only last week a report that the timber mills in the area are likely to have to retrench because the demand for timber is decreasing rapidly as the building industry goes through a period pf recession and as there is a lessening in demand for sleepers and scantling. This can only mean further unemployment in my electorate where most of the timber is milled. Of course, this is being reflected in other areas. The railways also are taking men off as steam is phased out completely and dieselisation is brought in. There is a good deal of uncertainty and anxiety in my electorate - in common with other electorates - and yet we see no Government action being implemented to try to avoid the terrible social distress that is caused by unemployment. I would say that 95 per cent of the people who are unemployed do not desire to be unemployed because there can be no more demoralising experience than that of being unemployed, and especially is this so when unemployment benefits arc so poor and so degrading. 
An indication of the weakness of the Government's approach, when it does take steps to meet situations that it is largely responsible for creating, is seen in the rural retraining scheme. I was looking forward to the introduction of the legislation establishing this scheme. I believed we might have had a scheme along the lines of the rehabilitation scheme for ex-servicemen introduced by the Labor Government after the last war under which people were trained for trades and professions and were able to complete university courses. But instead we have a scheme that is to train people for a period of 12 months, or 2 years part time, and according to a professor at the University of New England recently who examined what it would achieve in that area, although they bad some of the best .technical training facilities outside the metropolitan area of Sydney there were available in the institutions in the district only about 3 courses that could be completed in that time. One was a secretarial course, another was a welding course and another was a general mechanics course. He said that having completed 12 months in those courses on an income of about $2,400 a year, or whatever it is, a person would then encounter great difficulty in finding employment because. he would be a welder without any experience or a secretary-clerk without any experience and there would be very few avenues open to him even though he had done the training provided under the scheme. 
The Government's scheme does not meet the situation and I venture to say that if the Labor Government in the circumstances that existed immediately after the last war could introduce the imaginative scheme which it did to service a greater number of people and to give them the opportunity of being trained for trades and professions this Government, if it had exercised a little imagination, could have done the same thing and to good effect, because these people would have earned higher incomes and would have contributed a greater amount in income tax later on. I believe that this Government has become completely  synical. The cynicism of this Government was exposed by the Acting Prime Minister when he referred to the possibility of an early election next year in the wake of trouble which the Government will create by the introduction of industrial legislation. When this Government comes to grips with a problem it does so in an inadequate way, as is illustrated by the rural retraining scheme. I believe that this Government is completely discredited. It should resign, go to the electors under the present circumstances and see how it fares. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. What has prevented Australian advisers in Vietnam from training Vietnamese officers to the point where they could accept responsibility for the work for which Australians are to be retained in Vietnam? Does not the failure to have trained Vietnamese officers accept responsibility for jungle training reveal a serious flaw in the much vaunted Vietnamisation programme? 
I wish to raise a matter of very grave concern to a large number of people in Western Australia who are exclusively within my electorate. The Australian apple export industry is currently facing a most serious crisis in the form of the increased shipping freight rates being demanded by shipowners. To give honourable members some idea of the proportions of the problem. I point out that the apple and pear growers in Australia would not accept the shipowners' proposal to increase the sea freight by approximately 50c a bushel from $2.24 to $2.74. Up until the present growers have been able to survive only by neglecting the imputed costs and keeping cash costs to a minimum. The growers could not continue to operate if the freight rate were :- leased as proposed. The shipowners have now withdrawn the offer and at present there are no arrangements for lifting the 1972 export crop for the United Kingdom and the Continent. In the event of the export market collapsing, the greater part of the 22 million bushels of apples and 7 million bushels of pears produced throughout Australia would have to sold on the Australian market. At present up to 7 million bushels of apples and 1.8 million bushels of pears are sold overseas: In the States of Tasmania, Western Australia and Victoria, without exports the result could be disastrous. This would have consequential disastrous effects on the domestic market in every State of the Commonwealth. 
The Western Australian section of the industry believes that it can negotiate shipping arrangements that would allow the industry to survive but if it is to be bound to the Australian industry as a whole it sees that the situation is hopeless for the whole industry. In other words, there seems to be little hope of saving the industry in the eastern States unless they can negotiate special arrangements, which seems impossible. The Western Australian growers and shippers are quite confident that, if they were allowed, they could negotiate arrangements that would allow them to survive and allow the growers to continue in the industry. Unfortunately, although they have the support of the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture and the Western Australian Government, they have not been able to bring home to the Federal Government the urgency of the situation and the importance of an early decision to allow them to negotiate their own terms so that they may remain in operation as an industry. 
To give honourable members an idea of the extent of the industry in Western Australia and the importance of the matter I shall read some statistics which I have received from the Fruit Growers Association of Western Australia. These statistics show the extent of the Western Australian apple and pear industry and the importance of apple exports to the overall position. The number of growers concerned is 745. In 1971 the production of apples was 3,186,000 bushels and the production of pears in 1970 was 212,000 bushels. In 1971 1,877,000 bushels of apples and 50,000 bushels of pears were exported. 
I turn now to discuss the capital structure of the apple and pear industry. An estimate has been prepared from various sources of the capita] value of orchards, packing sheds and cold stores. With respect to orchards, the following figures are based on the Bureau of Agricultural Economics cost of production survey of 1970: There were 745 properties valued at an average of $74,054, including an estimate for properties with less than the minimum area of orchard, a total valuation of $55m. With respect to packing sheds, based on a throughput of 1.9 million bushels through central sheds and0.5 million bushels through growers sheds, the capital investment has been calculated as follows: 1.9 million bushels packed in central sheds at a capital value of $1 per bushel, giving a total of $1.9m and 500,000 bushels packed in private growers at a capital value of $2 per bushel giving a total of $lm and a total capital investment of $2. 9m. 
Western Australia is producing in excess of 3 million bushels of apples annually and has exported up to 1,877,000 bushels. The increase in the quantity of apples available for marketing locally from approximately 0.7 million to more than 2 million would lead to severe over-supply and reduction in the average price. If, for instance, it was from $3 to $1.25 orless per bushel, the loss incurred to the industry can be shown thus: On the local market, a total of 2 million bushels at $1.25 per bushel, giving a total loss of $2.5m; on the United Kingdom and continental market, a total loss of $4m making an estimated total industry loss of $6.5m. So, we are dealing with a problem of some magnitude and importance. 
Of course, not only the growers are affected. They employ a large amount of seasonal labour which is very important to people who rely upon seasonal employment and, of course, the towns around which the apples are grown rely greatly upon the apple industry. People living in those towns are as gravely concerned at the present time as are the growers and the shippers. There is limited time available for a decision to be reached. The fruit growers themselves have said 'Time is vital'. Already carton manufacturers have informed shippers that unless they receive orders for export cartons very soon they will not be able to guarantee supply of these, without which exports could not take place. 
So this matter is of a very grave nature. It cannot be too strongly stressed. It is important that the Government treat it as a matter of grave seriousness. It is important that the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  or the Minister acting in his place, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  get together on this matter and find out what the Government can do. If necessary it should release the Western Australian growers from the Australian Apple and Pear Board to allow them on their own initiative to seek shipping terms which will enable the industry to remain in operation; otherwise the whole industry in Australia will go down. So it is a question of the whole industry going down because the various sections are bound together and Western Australia having to sink with the rest, or the Western Australians being allowed to be free of the rest of the country in Australia, which seems to be in a desperate situation, and to be allowed to negotiate terms which will enable it to survive. 
The situation is worse because the areas in which the apples are grown are already affected by the rural recession. These areas are also beginning to feel the effects of a recession in the building industry because they are in the timber growing area of the State. If the growers are forced off their farms there will be no alternative employment for them in the south west of the State. This will bring further tension to the employment market and place further strain upon it. There will be further social upheaval and stress. I believe it is unnecessary because if a decision is made to allow these people to negotiate their own shipping terms they can be saved from those circumstances. So I urge upon the Ministers concerned the importance of their getting together and discussing this problem and, if possible, allowing the Western Australian growers and shippers to negotiate terms which will allow them to export their crop this year and so save the Australian fruit market from the serious plight which will affect the growers in the eastern States as much as the growers in Western Australia. It is a serious problem. I cannot overstress if. I hope it will be treated with some urgency. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Mouse adjourned at  12.2  a.m. (Friday) 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid' taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last few years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of . their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undesigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentatives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament asssembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Recently the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  drew attention to the sale of land in the Simpson Desert area to overseas interests at 20c an acre. More recently honourable members have become aware of attempts being made by  Sir William  Gunn to sell further Australian real estate to American interests. In the latter case Australians were to have been precluded from purchase and were informed of their right to invest only after much public criticism. This evening I wish to draw to the attention of the House a promotional pamphlet being circulated in the United States of America through Honolulu. The sheet is distributed by a corporation which euphemistically calls itself the Australian Land Corporation. It operates from regional offices at 1150 South King Street, Honolulu, Hawaii 96814. On the obverse side of the sheet is printed in bold print the words 'Australia Land of Golden Opportunity'. The recipient on opening the sheet is presented with the following message, and I will read it in detail. It says: 
You know what happened to Hawaii land values. .  . Experts are predicting the same great potential for Australian 
It shows a picture of a jet plane leaving Honolulu and heading directly for Western Australia. It continues: 
Investment opportunities are now fantastic! Just 6 hours from Hawaii by, new supersonic jet. 
Follow the leader! Australian land is priced today . at what Hawaii land cost just a few years ago! 
Then the following points are made: 
After long careful research, over 1,500 large United States corporations - including General Motors, R.C.A., Kaiser Steel, Shell Oil, Chase Manhattan Bank, Remington-Rand, King Ranch of Texas,  Mobiloil  - have already invested almost two billion dollars in Australia. 
Many successful Americans - including Art Linkletter, television personality; Dillingham Corp. of Australia Pty Ltd; David Rockefeller, president of Chase Manhattan Bank; Clare Booth Luce, actress and former US Ambassador to Italy; Anne Baxter, motion picture star . . . and many, many others - have been thoughtfully, investing in Australian land. 
Then this pamphlet emphasises these words: 
They know where top profit potentials are! 
Now, for the first time, the tremendous profit potentials of Australian land are being offered to the American public at low investment costs . . . you, too, can buy big, rich Australian acreage - just three miles from beautiful sandy ocean beaches, near a major seaport. 
You can buy good Australian land for low down and low monthly payments. 
Australian Land Corporation. 
Over fifty years of professional real estate experience. 
Member of Better Business Bureau and Chamber of Commerce. 
The address is then given. It has the effrontery to print the following: 
Both Hawaii and Western Australia are seaboard states. Both enjoy similar sunny climate. Both are developing at record rates! Australians are our kind of people - a nation on the moye! Many, Australians refer to their fast-growing country as the '51st State' of our Union! 

 Sir, I believe that statement is insulting to the Australian people and that it is not true. I believe they hold the fear that if this Government continues in office it will eventually occur through the sale of all our land and all our resources. I believe that no Australian thinks of our country as being the 51st state of the American Union. This is a further indication of the need for this Government to take heed of the trends that are developing in this country, to recognise that we are selling our country at incredibly low rates, that we are losing control of our resources and even of our agricultural and city lands. To ' illustrate this point, I refer honourable members to the publication titled 'Annual Bulletin of Overseas Investment 1969-70', which was compiled by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics in Canberra. We find that in 1960-61, overseas interests invested $lm in Australian primary industry, and that in 1969-70 that figure had increased 66 times to S66m. We also find that total overseas investment in companies in Australia increased from $375m in 1960-61 to $740m in 1969-70. 
In January 1968 there was presented in Canada a report by the Watkins Commission which had been set up by the Canadian Government to investigate all aspects of foreign investment in that country, its effect upon the country and what policies needed to be implemented in order to meet the effects of overseas investment upon Canada's growth and Canada's policies. There is not sufficient time for me to refer to more than a short passage in the concluding section of the report. The main concern felt by the Commission is reflected in this section. Foreign ownership of resources leads to the situation in which the government loses control of a wide area of policy making and industries are owned by foreign interests and have their policies directed by company heads who have no interest in the advancement of the country in which the industries are established; they are interested only in the wider field of their own companies. The concluding section of this report, under the heading 'A New National Policy', states: 
The old National Policy served Canada in its day. as an instrument of nation-building and a means of facilitating  economic  growth. The challenges have changed and a new National Policy is required. 
That is equally true in Australia. It continues: 
The nation has been built, but its sovereignty must be protected and its independence maintained. A diversified economy has been created, but its efficiency must be improved and its capacity for autonomous growth increased. 
This is as true for Australia as it is for Canada. The report continues: 
It is this spirit which informs the present proposals. While each individual proposal deserves careful consideration, taken together, these proposals are designed as a programme which is realistic and attainable both from an economic and political viewpoint. Increased economic interdependence among nations is recognised, but also that a stronger national economy is needed to function effectively in a global setting. The movement within Canada toward stronger provincial authority, is also recognised, but this does not alter the fact that foreign ownership is a national issue that goes beyond regional concerns. The growing mutual dependence of nations today suggests finally that Canada's foreign policy and global responsibilities can be made more effective by sustaining a healthy national independence. 
I commend to honourable members this report titled 'Foreign Ownership and the Structure of Canadian Industry - Report of the Task Force on the Structure of Canadian Industry', lt is in the Parliamentary Library. As I said, the report was brought down in 1968 by a commission which was set up to consider all the ramifications of foreign ownership in Canada. I believe that a similar situation has arisen in Australia, and I think that we ought to learn from the experience of Canada and not wait until foreign investment reaches in Australia the proportions that it did in Canada, which necessitated the setting up of this Commission. I believe that this is one area in which the ground work has been done, and I think that we ought to benefit from it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
thai the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits Mie use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on mau, animals or plants: 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
thai the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
thai the Parliament take , 10 le of the consensus of international political, scientific mid humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical ^lbstances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pi ay. 
Petition received. 
I  present  the  following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or pan thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The amount of $1.6m is to go to Western Australia this year for its war service land settlement scheme, and I want to suggest how that sum of money ought to be spent. First of all, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a copy of a question that I asked and the answer received from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  earlier in the year in relation to this subject. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Mr (Cope)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): (Question No. 2949) 
Tonight we are debating the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I will confine my remarks to war service land settlement in Western Australia, particularly where it occurs in my own electorate. The first war service land settlement project considered in Western Australia was that of Mount Many Peaks near Albany. It was followed by Rocky Gully, Perillup, Bokenup Kybellup, Jerramungup, Gairdner River, Eneabba and Denbarker respectively. Almost all of those projects fall within the bounds of the Forrest electorate or just outside it. The exception is Eneabba which is north of Moora. A condition of the Second Schedule under which the States of South Australia. Western Australia and Tasmania operate is that holdings must be allotted on perpetual leasehold tenure, the general terms and conditions of the lease to be approved by the Commonwealth. Principles of operation, as. stated in Commonweal*h Year Book No, 37, are as follows: 
Settlement shall be undertaken only where economic prospects for the production concerned are reasonably sound; and the number of eligible persons to bc settled shall be determined primarily by opportunities for settlement and not by the number of applicants; 
Applicants shall not be selected as settle; s unless a competent authority is satisfied as to their eligibility, sustability and qualifications for settlement under the scheme and their experience of farm work; 
Holdings shall be sufficient in size to enable settlers to operate efficiently and to earn a reasonable labour income; 
An eligible person deemed suitable for settlement shall not be precluded from settlement by reason only of lack cf capital, but a settler will be expected te invest in the holdings such proportion of his own financial and other resources as is considered reasonable in the circumstances by the appropriate State authority; 
Adequate guidance and technical advice shall be made available to settlers through agricultural extension services. 
So much for the principles underlying the scheme. The scheme was and is fine in principle. It has assisted a large number of more fortunate ex-servicemen to establish themselves and become successful farmers. The scheme also has led many to heartbreak and failure through the wrongful use of land in some cases, through insufficient acreage in other cases and also through misleading information. 
The average acreages in the different project areas in Western Australia are 840 acres with 600 acres pastured m Mount Many Peaks for fat lamb and wool growing; 1,000 acres in the Rocky Gully area for fat lambs, merino wool and beef production; 2,350 acres in the South Stirlings for wool production; 2,780 acres in the Jerramungup area for wool production; and 600 acres of pasture were provided in the Denbarker project area for production of fat lambs and beef. People who know the consistency of the land or the type of land in those areas will be fully aware that the acreages provided are totally inadequate and have been the main cause of failure The acreages provided in every case have proved insufficient for the provision of an adequate living, except where the total acreage allocated was of high quality. Even in the latter case there are now settlers who are faced with severe financial difficulties. Whereas settlers have been able to meet their commitments and increase production in past years, they are now finding it difficult, if not impossible, to pay rentals and commitments. 
Because settlers were able to meet the criteria laid down in the original Act and because they have been able to remain on their farms to the present time, I believe that there can be no doubt that the present distressing situations confronting settlers  are not due to the inefficiency or unsuitability of these settlers for their chosen occupation. I believe that they are victims of circumstances beyond their control and that the seriousness of their plight demands special measures to assist the persons and families involved. To illustrate the situation confronting people in my electorate J will read extracts from letters that are representative of a great number sent to me. One settler on a farm near Bridgetown states in part: 
I pay $1,013.44 rent per annum. This is due on the last day of the year, but for the firsttime sinceI have been here,I am unableto pay it. I have been here for 18 years and have always paid all my commitments on time. Now I am unableto pay the $2,250I owe War Service Land Settlement each year or the $1,080 due to the Commonwealth Development Bank each half year. 
Farm production has been increasing, but obviously not fast enough to cope with these debts. 
Another settler from Gairdner River, outside my electorate, writes: 
Unfortunately 1 am one settler of the group around me who are all faced with debts arising from sub-standard land and rental repayments. 
Theroad on whichI live served 7 settlers when we moved here 12 years ago, 5 of whom had left during the first 6 years. 
These farms were badly ploughed and the paddocks were full of box poison and it was over 6 years before we had the pasture paddocks poison free. In the early years lambing did not match sheeplosses. 
He lists all that he has done to develop his farm and then goes on to say: 
I have been warned that my debt position is dangerously high and therefore I am indanger of being unable to obtain necessary funds to continue. No settler has or could have worked harder than I and my 3 sons have worked over the years. 
He continues: 
Believe me. I would not have been in this financial situation had the farm not been substandard. 
A third letter reads as follows: 
Large numbers of farmers are having a great deal of difficulty in running their farms and meeting their commitments under the present circumstances of reduced return for wool, sheep  and  other products, together with quotas  and  steadily rising costs. Of these a proportion are Soldier Settlers who are not immune to these problems and need assistance in the way of reducing or eliminating rentals- 
That is whatI am pressing for -  or reducing annual repyaments of loans which which ease the situation to some degree. 
In my case  a  farm, which was  definitely a thriving  economic unit in the early 1960s,  was later found to require expansion to keep up with rising costs. This expansion was accomplished with further finance from Commonwealth Development Bank, and by 1967 was running well over 3,000 sheep. At that time income from wool and sale of surplus slock was quite sufficient to meet commitments, but since then falling returns and steadily rising costs have made it impossible to do so. In the past 3 years the value of my property has fallen by about $25,000. and the value of my stock has fallen by at least the same amount. 
He continues: 
Could you please advise if there is likely to be any special consideration given to the difficulties of Soldier Settlers in the present rural crisis. Would it be possible to have repayments of loans deferred until such time as more stable conditions in the industry prevail, and wool and sheep prices improve? Could some consideratio n be given to revising Commonwealth Development Bank term loans to Primary Producers to (a) increase the payment period to say 25 years;(b) reduce interest rate to say 4 per cent. 
Another settler has written to me in the following terms: 
I am writing to you in connection with the payment of 'Perpetual Lease Rent' on War Service Land Settlement farms. 
I  bought this property from a soldier settler and have paid to the Western Australian Land and Surveys Department an annualrental of $995. 
When wool was above 40c per lb, and lamb andmutton a reasonable price, this money was not impossible to find, but under theruling prices, this annual rental has become burdensome. 
He continues: 
Under the present depressed rural economy, it would enable many occupiers of these 'Perpetual Lease' farms to remain viable, if the Commonwealth Government could waive the payment of this rental. 
I ask that the Minister have the Government abolish annual rentals or at least waive them for a period of 5 years to allow farmers to ride out the current crisis or to withdraw from farming operations if unable in those circumstances to redeem themselves. I ask that this action be taken as early as possible in view of the seriousness of the situation as it has been revealed by previous speakers and by the letters I have read tonight. 
I believe that there is merit in the suggestion contained in one of the letters I have read, in which the writer asked that government finance be used to consolidate debts at an interest rate of 4 per cent or lower. In view of the service given to the country by the settlers concerned and in view of their perseverance in the face of the many adversities over which they have  triumphed to remain on their farms I ask that the Minister give the suggestions I have made early, serious and favourable consideration. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there ls a need to phase out Native Reserves hi the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in Centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And  your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient Stale or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior upon notice: 
What was the enrolment for each (a) electoral division and (b) sub-division in Western Australia at the (i) last redistribution, (ii) time of the 1969 House of Representatives Election, (ii) time of the 1970 Senate Election and (iv) end of September 1971. 
How many persons voted at each of the polling places in each electoral division in Western Australia in the (a) 1969 House of Representatives Election and (b) 1970 Senate Election. 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many farms allocated in Western Australia to War Service Land Settlement were (a) established, (b) project and (c) single unit. 
How many 600-700 acre pasture project  area  farms are west of Mount Barker. 
What  is the average  rental  for (a) a wheat  and sheep farm and  (b) a  600-700 acre pasture  project  farm west of  Mount  Barker. 
What  has been  the average  gross  return  pex  annum for the period 1960-1968 from  (a) wheat and  sheep farm  and (b) a project farm west  of  Mount  Barker. 
How many settlers failed for financial reasons in (a) wheat arid sheep area and (b) the project areas of Mount Barker. 
If a larger percentage of the failures was from the project areas, can he say why this occurred when all settlers were selected on the basis of eligibility, suitability and qualifications as settlers. 
Was it the policy of the War Service Land Settlement to force settlers on project farms west of Mount Barker to breed fat lambs on oestrogen dominant clover pasture, e.g. yarloop, and did the Rural and Industries Bank also adopt this policy. 
During the assessment period on project farms west of Mount Barker, was it the administration or the settler who was responsible for the farm policy on individual farms in regard to type of stock carried. tv) Are the 600-700 acre pasture project area farms west of Mount 'Barker still considered a viable and economic unit. 
If so, why is the Rural Reconstruction Committee allocating extra adjoining farms to some settlers. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: (1.) What is the reason for the Government's decision to wthhold the right to vote from persons 18 to 20 years old when they have the right to vote in Stale elections in certain States. 
Will the situation be any different when Adulthood Mills in respect of 18 year old persons are enacted in the various Slates. 
I second the motion to suspend Standing Orders. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate),  obviously stirred by the concern of the dairy farming people of his electorate, has brought before the Parliament the question of whether there should be an examination by a committee of this 
Parliament of the whole matter of the closure of non-official post offices throughout Australia. I share his concern, coming as I do from a dairying electorate and knowing the difficulties that confront people in isolated areas who have very few facilities. One of the few facilities that they have had over the years is being taken from them. In these outlying and isolated areas a post office is more important than is a post office in any town or city. In my own electorate a post office was closed at the end of the year. The Postmaster-General  (Sir  Alan  Hulme  said that he had not received any letters concerning the closure of this post office but this may be because the letters were referred to the officers he mentioned during his speech. I received a flow of letters at the end of the year and I sent them to the postal manager in Bunbury. The letters expressed concern at the closure of the non-official post office at Collie Cardiff. I expect there to be a similar flow of letters from the Wellington area when the post office at Wellington Mills is closed. The Postmaster-General informed me yesterday in reply to a question that that post office is to be closed. 
The areas to which I have referred are isolated. They are in hilly country. Many of the residents of those areas are elderly farmers who are unable to journey into the towns of Collie or Bunbury at frequent intervals. They will be greatly disadvantaged by the closure of these institutions. As the honourable member for Macarthur said, people in such areas use the post office as a social centre. It provides for them an important meeting place. It is an important institution in their lives. The facilities they have and the comforts they enjoy are extremely restricted, especially by comparison with the facilities and comforts enjoyed by people in towns and cities. I commend the honourable member for Macarthur for bringing before the Parliament this matter of public importance and for suggesting an examination of the situation by a parliamentary committee. The Opposition raised a similar matter on 9th December last year, but its proposal was rejected by the Government. However, because the Opposition has facilitated the discussion of this matter this evening, an opportunity will be sought to have a vote on it. I point out that had it not been for the support of the Opposition the honour able member for Macarthur would not have been able to raise this issue, which is his right as a representative in this place. Because he was not able to secure the support of 8 members from the Government side despite the fact that the Country Party has 20 members. He should have had no difficulty in securing support from the Country Party but because insufficient members rose on the Government side members of the Opposition were required to rise to support him. We are greatly concerned about the people who will suffer as a result of the closure of post offices. 
I note that a couple of other honourable members would have risen had they been present. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  has expressed grave concern at the closure of post offices and last year he indicated that he intended to raise this question himself. He even thought of crossing the floor. We will give him the opportunity this evening to cross the floor to facilitate a vote on this matter. Another honourable member who would have risen is the honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  to whom the honourable member for Macarthur referred. The right honourable member for Fisher has been itching to cross to this side of the House to give his support for a vote on this issue. This matter concerns him. Other members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party who represent rural electorates, as do the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and myself, know the privations and difficulties that are suffered by people in isolated areas and appreciate the extra suffering they will experience when post offices are closed in their areas. I support the honourable member for Dawson in his move to have a vote taken on this important issue. We are glad to be able to test the sincerity of the honourable members for Lyne and Macarthur, the right honourable member for Fisher and other honourable members who, I am sure, are genuinely concerned about their electors and their problems. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia  over  the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We are debating a Bill for an Act to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924- 66. The purpose of the Bill is to permit the Dairy Produce Board to use funds, other than its fully committed stabilisation funds, for the continuance and extension of its operations in Australia and overseas. The Board is to be congratulated on its foresight and enterprise in exercising initiative in establishing milk recombining plants in South East Asia. By so doing the Board has opened up new markets for dairy products and has provided a necessary food source for people in and around Singapore, Manila, Bangkok, Djakarta and Phnom Penh. 
Since 1963 the Board has shipped to plants butter oil and skim milk powder valued at S36m. It is estimated that this year about 10,000 tons of butter in the form of butter oil, and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder worth some $15m will be shipped. Those figures indicate the extent to which the Board has succeeded in developing new outlets for dairy produce from Australia. It is because of the work done by the Board and the opportunities for expanding its operations under the provisions of this Bill, that I wish to express support on behalf of 'he dairy farmers and other electors in the south west of Western Australia. The Board's initiative and expertise have contributed to a new attitide of hope and security that is discernible in dairy areas. I congratulate the Board and the industry on it. I have pleasure in supporting 'he Bill.  '  Mr BUCHANAN  (McMillan) (9.15)- The purpose of this Bill is to make possible the expansion of existing markets aid to secure new markets for dairy produce. It is very pleasing to see that the Opposition is supporting this measure. I think that this is one of the rare occasions in which we find we are all in harmony in wanting to do something to improve the state of a very valuable industry which has done so much for Australia, but which over the last few years has had a pretty bad time. Al present however, the dairying industry happens to be doing father well but we still have to look to the future. 
The Australian Dairy Produce Board is constituted to take the necessary action to expand existing markets or secure new markets. Indeed, this is the purpose of the Board, lt is always assumed that these will be overseas markets because the Board was set up to look after export trade. In the 1960s when surpluses were becoming so hard to dispose of, the Board set out to establish milk recombining plants in South 
 East Asia. This was a commercial' venture which was undertaken in conjunction with -local capital in the various areas to which the Board went. The Board has performed a great service to the industry  by  creating ah outlet for skim milk powder and by taking a lot of butter for which no market existed and, in a sense, because of the prices at which the Board was able to dispose of it, was dumping it on the market. Of course, the return to the dairy farmer at farm gate was often as low as 7c or . 8c per lb of butterfat. Therefore, although the work of the Board was very good the actual return to the farmer was not as beneficial as we would have liked. 
The effect on equalisation in those days was catastrophic. But as farmers, persisted iri increasing output to keep incomes up to try to reach a decent living standard, this wa one way of getting n(i 0f unwanted surpluses. At that time many other countries ako had surpluses and world but ter slocks had grown until at one stage the surplus was over 500,000 tons. This mountain of butter overshadowed the whole market. Bui the surplus melted away and conditions have changed. The latest forecasts for the European Economic Community countries point to a build-up of 265,000 tons by the end of 1972. I regret to say that many people do not seem to understand or recognise that the industry, having reached a peak, is now facing a return to the bad old days. 
The Board has conducted these ventures overseas in a very successful way from its point of view if we regard its actions as ensuring some outlet for the excessive production which could not otherwise have been sold and if we regard its efforts as forward looking insurance against the time when the United Kingdom would enter the EEC, which is set down for 1st January 1973. Australia will then lose its only profitable outlet. Actually, on paper these joint ventures have been quite profitable as far as the Board is concerned. For most of the 7 years in which the Board has been conducting these enterprises the prices paid for Australian skim milk powder and butter oil have been at a premium over world prices although, of course, contracts are well under the prices being enjoyed at present. These prices possibly will prevail for another 18 months or perhaps, with luck, 2 years. But then conditions will return to normal. These producers also have progressed well, viewed from the standpoint of the increased share of the local markets gained for the companies that have been set up. In Thailand, the market has risen from 3 per cent in 1967 to approximately 50 per cent today. In Indonesia the share of ie market stands at 75 per cent. The industry has a 100 per cent share of the market in Cambodia, small though that market is. The share of the market in the Philippines is 20 per cent. 
It is expected that this year these overseas plants will take 30,000 tons of skim milk powder and approximately 10,000 tons of butter oil. These exports will be worth approximately SI 5m. This is a very valuable business. Apart from the return for raw materials, the Board has earned, more than $4m as its share of profits on capital invested. Also, it is helping in the nutritional requirements of the people of this area and building up goodwill for 
Australia as a good neighbour and friend. These profits, incidentally, have been ploughed back to develop existing plants and to establish new plants. The money for capital has come from industry funds built up under post-war contracts with the United Kingdom, although it is not clear to me why this money did not come back to producers through equalisation. Anyhow, this source, of funds is finished. This Bill has been introduced to give the Board power to use other moneys that it may be able to set aside for the expansion of thi-, type of investment. This proposal should be warmly applauded by everyone concerned for the future of the dairy industry. 1 believe that it is. 
While on the subject of the activities of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, I put forward the suggestion that the Board should he concerned with the Australian market, which has potential for great expansion. We seem to bc concentrating too much on overseas marketing because of the freak prices that rule today. What I am interested in is taking advantage of today's unexpected profitability to set the. foundation on which we may build a viable Australian industry in the future. I am looking ahead 10 or 20 years, not just one Or 2 years. At the present time, overseas sales are lifting equalisation returns to record levels. This is opposed to the normal pattern in which the farmer receives so much less for his surplus over the local market requirement that often it would be belter for him to direct his energies and finance into some other activity if he wished to maximise his return from his farm. This is a matter for his business judgment. This situation is obscured by the equalisation payments being in the form of one sum rather than showing how much is received on the local market and how much comes from overseas. At the present time, the overseas market is returning more than the local market. So, the picture is very confused. But, in the long term, it is the home market return which, will decide the profitability of the producer. 
The local market is capable of vast expansion, even in butter sales, if the funds available were better directed. Most of the $2m a year that is available from the marketing fund for butter is spent inefficiently because no real determination exists to direct promotion into channels for expanding products using butterfat as a whole. Too often it seems that the money is being spent merely because it is available. So, advertising of some sort is carried out to use it up. The Australian Dairy Produce Board could easily sponsor the establishment of cultured milk products including butter powder, butter oil, the milk biscuit and other new products. A recent proposal to set up a cheese bureau seems to have been bypassed largely because some Board members are interested financially in the promotion of imported cheese. Voting methods for electing Board members do not encourage the appearance of vigorous independent marketers. We badly need some principle, such as is seen in the membership of the Australian Wool Board, where some membersare elected not because they are involved in wool production but because they have special experience in marketing, in finance or in advertising. These are fields in which the producer usually is very sadly lacking in experience. 
Some changes in personnel in the Australian Dairy Produce Board are imminent as members retire because of age, but more than these changes is needed. One essential seems to be greater representation from Victoria as .the major producer and also to broaden discussions by obtaining the viewpoint of the various factions in the battle of politics which is going on in the Victorian organisations. These definitely, are holding the industry back at a time when it must come up with an answer that is the considered view of the whole of the dairy industry, not any one section of it. 
One of the points of- the current 8-point plan put up by the Australian Dairy Industry Council is the banning of the importation of cheese. This proposition cannot be sustained until such time as local cheeses can supply the requirements of our market. Australia produces superior cheeses of just about every type available here, but, without a concerted promotion drive we cannot hope to manufacture in sufficient quantities to overpower the competition of imports, particularly as some leading figures in the Australian Dairy Produce Board and the Australian Dairy Industry. Council - very largely, they are the same people - have a vested interest in promot-ing imports. There is only one factory in 
Australia making Camembert cheese. It is at Moe in Victoria. I use it to illustrate the position with cheese in Australia. Camembert is a type of cheese that is dependent for its delicate flavour on a rather tricky fermentation process. It is not an easy cheese to make. The manufacturer must be very careful about the cultures which are present. If it is held too long before it is marketed and consumed,, it develops an acidity, becomes very full flavoured and has too much bite for the average person. 
What do overseas cheese makers do? They know that they cannot export to Australia genuine Camembert. So, they pasteurise their product in tins and produce a dead product which no-one would eat if he had the experience of eating the live Australian product at its best. The same sort of cheese is available overseas. But in Australia a consumer cannot obtain cheese from overseas of the same quality as that on sale overseas. This just is not possible. Some cheeses ripen too much. But no-one would buy this dead product if he tried the live Australian product. There are similar stories but I will not go through all of them. For instance, there are only 3 factories in Australia producing blue vein cheese. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When  win  the Mount Barker exchange be converted to automatic operation. 
When will the (a) Albany (b) Mount Barker and (c) Esperance exchanges be included in the STD network. 
Has there been any delay in planned changeover dme in any of these exchanges; if so, what has been the cause. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What unofficial post offices in the Electoral Division of Forrest are to be closed during 1971- 72. 
What official post offices in the Electoral Division of Forrest are to be (a) closed and (b) classified as unofficial during 1971-72. 
Tonight I wish to appeal to the Government to make an early decision to assist Western Australia to purchase a new unit load vessel for its coastal service, and to provide annual assistance towards meeting losses incurred in carrying the service beyond Wyndham to Darwin. In making my appeal I join the Premier of Western Australia, the Leader of the Opposition in that State, the Leader of the Country Party, all Western Australian members of this Parliament, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and numerous other people and organisations both in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. These people have come out in support of the request for Commonwealth assistance to permit the extension of the State Shipping Service to Darwin. Western Australia has provided a shipping service to Darwin for nearly 60 years and the State Government is loath to terminate it, even in the face of annual losses of around $700,000 a year. That figure represents the cost of extending the service beyond Wyndham to serve Darwin. To offset part of that loss the State Government is requesting a subsidy of $475,000 per annum, just over half of the total loss incurred in serving the Commonwealth Territory. 
To increase the State Shipping Service's efficiency and reduce its losses, 2 newly adapted unit load vessels have been put into operation to replace older, smaller and slower passenger-cargo vessels that have been sold. The service has been significantly improved since the introduction of the Wambiri' and the 'Beroona' and a new level of efficiency achieved. To give a comparison between the new unit load vessels and the older vessels, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table giving tonnages and speeds of the new vessels and the remaining older vessels in service. 
I was not sure whether the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  was speaking from experience when he said that people became millionaires from the sale of the greenbelt around Sydney or whether it was because of jealousy that he made the remark, having been a real estate agent. I support the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in his move to have discussed as a matter of public importance: 
The Government'!) failure to act to create regional development areas, to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow the growth of our capital cities. 
This is a similar matter to one which was raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in May 1969, and the answers given by Government supporters on this occasion have been very similar to the contributions of Government supporters 2 years ago, yet the situation has deteriorated at a more rapid rate in the intervening 2 years than prior to that time. I believe that the main reason is not hard to identify. The reason basically is Government indifference, contributed to in no small measure by the prime responsibility for regional development being in the hands of a Country Party Minister. The Minister chiefly responsible is the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  That Party has only spoken about decentralisation; it has never done anything about it. On 20th September 1968 he said that ways must be found to arrest the drift to the cities and that the Country Party had devoted itself to this problem during the whole of its existence. That is typical Country Party humbug. 
Let us see just how devoted - to use the Minister's words - the Government has been in dealing with this problem. I seek leave of the House to insert in Hansard a table which shows the deterioration of the situation under the 20 years of this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="076131197203073_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

 In Western Australia in 1949, 54.40 per cent of the people lived in the metropolitan area of Perth. At present, 68.27 per cent of the people in Western Australia live in the metropolitan area of Perth. In 1949, the average number of people living in the metropolitan areas of Australian capital cities was 50.02 per cent and, after 20 years of Liberal-Country Party Government it is now 63.01 per cent. Years ago, a committee rejoicing under the impressive title of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation was formed to examine and report upon matters concerning decentralisation policies. The Minister responsible for that Committee is the Leader of the Country Party in this place. In spite of the Committee having been created, there has been no action and no policies have been devised. What is worse, there has been no report of the Committee's work or recommendations made to this Parliament. What the Minister calls devoted action I would reluctantly have to describe as a lethargic pursuit of the problem. 
On 13 th September last year I asked the Minister whether he would have the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation meet the Minister for Decentralisation in Western Australia. Inci- dentally, he is the first Minister for Decentralisation in that State. He was granted that portfolio after the State elections last year. I asked the Deputy Prime Minister to examine ways of encouraging the establishment of industry in country areas. He replied that, he would like to be able to say that he could arrange such a meeting, but at the moment most of the discussions have gone on at the officials level. He continued: 
There is a report before us at the moment for consideration- 
Nothing more has been heard of that -  1 will certainly try to find an opportunity myself to meet the Western Australian Minister for Decentralisation and exchange points of view on a question which I believe is of national importance. That is how to get more industry into country areas. 
The Minister was going to discuss points of view. Although the  Deputy  Prime Minister was in Western Australia soon after giving me that reply and although he has been in that State many times since, I believe his devoted pursuit of this question of national importance - to use his own words - has not driven him to discuss decentralisation policies with the Government of Western Australia. In fact, though he is the Minister responsible for decentralisation in this Parliament, he probably is unaware that the Western Australian Government has, during one year in office, laid down guidelines for government action to assist with the decentralisation of industry in that State. The decisive action or, to use the Minister's own word, the 'devoted' action of the State Labor Minister contrasts markedly with the lethargic approach of this Government. In fact, the inaction of the Minister combined with the many words he has uttered on this question must make us wonder whether the talks in his sleep. 
I have dealt with the politics of this matter because I believe that they are crucial. I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government are as guilty as is the Country Party in this matter because they allow the Country Party to retain responsibility for decentralisation, in spite of its inaction. The Prime Minister allows it even after years barren of results. He allows it even though he is aware that decentralisation will not be achieved for however long the Country Party is in  a  position to forestall it. 
In spite of employment opportunities created by decentralisation; in spite of the improved facilities that an increased population attracts to country areas; and in spite of the increased security that is created in areas through diversification, decentralisation will be obstructed by honourable members whose political existence depends upon the absence of people in other than rural industries because they will support the Labor or Liberal Parties. The sooner that lesson is learnt by the people of Australia - especially country people - the sooner is there likely to be a stemming of the drift to the cities. 
I have on a number of occasions urged this Government to look to the electorate of Forrest wilh a view to testing decentralisation policies there. A start will have to be made at some point and in some particular place. I believe that there can be few areas in Australia better suited to testing decentralisation policies than in the southwest of Western Australia. The State Government has demonstrated its desire to encourage regional development, and I am sure that it would welcome co-operation from the Commonwealth. There are excellent port facilities in the area - I instance Albany, Busselton and Bunbury. Development should be further encouraged parallel to the south western railways, roads and water lines. In so doing the rapid growth of the metropolitan area will be eased, avoiding many of the problems associated with growth in larger cities in the eastern States before it occurs. Development should be encouraged in the Collie, Bunbury and Busselton region, in the Mount Barker, Albany, Denmark region and in the Greenbushes, Boyup Brook, Bridgetown and Manjimup region. 1 should like briefly to refer to each of these regions in turn to indicate what (hey provide as a basis for development. There has been a decision taken to export through the port of Bunbury alumina mined about half way between Bunbury and Perth, instead of transporting it to Fremantle. There are mineral sands mined south of that port which are and will continue to be exported through it. It is and will be the port for the export of coal, tin, kaline, timber, etc., all of which are produced in the southwest corner of the State. Bunbury is also the town which will increasingly provide necessary services for the southwestern region. The necessary resources and the basic requirements are there for growth. AH that is required to stimulate further more rapid development is government action. Since the State Government has announced guidelines and has shown interest in creating regional growth in the area I hope that this Government might accept my invitation - if it likes my challenge - to test its yet to be devised policies in that area. 
The central area referred to - the Boyup Brook, Greenbushes, Bridgetown, Manjimup area - provides all the tin and kaline produced in the State, plus a good deal of timber, meat, coarse grains, fruit, vegetables and milk products. There has recently been a study made of the Bridgetown region as a potential regional centre. The study was conducted by the Geography Department of the University of Western Australia and concludes that Bridgetown has the potential for development and growth in spite of evidence to the contrary during recent years. I hope that the Minister will obtain a copy of the report and examine it closely, again with a view to testing decentralisation policies in the electorate of Forrest. 
Lastly, I would like to inform the Minister of the need to take a close look at the eastern side of my electorate with a view to testing decentralisation policies. The main town in the region is the port of Albany which has one of the best natural harbours in Australia. It is a town that has striven hard to reach its present size and to maintain its growth. As an example I take the wool selling activities of recent years. Due largely to the efforts of the local radio station, business leaders and rural producers, Albany has become one of the important wool selling centres in Australia. More than one million bales of wool have been sold in the town and efforts have been made to see that the wool sold there is shipped through the port. In the face of pressure to have all wool sent through Fremantle, local people have done well in ensuring that a large percentage of wool is still being shipped on conventional vessels out of Albany. The people of the town and region- 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the Government's proclaimed concern for the observance of the law and in view of  the  fundamental importance of the Constitution in our democratic processes, will the right honourable gentleman act quickly, firstly, to have 18 to 20- year-old Western Australians enrolled for Federal elections under section 41 of the Constitution, and, secondly, to have a redistribution of House of Representatives electorates in Western Australia commenced immediately to give that State the additional seat to which it is entitled under section 24 of the Constitution? 
I wish to follow the same thoughts as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who has just resumed his seat. It is only a couple of weeks since the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  celebrated his 64th birthday. This week he celebrates with his Ministers, Assistant Ministers, Government in exile and other members opposite another anniversary. It is only one year since the usurpation of the Prime Ministerial office by the right honourable gentleman from Lowe.  His  part, with  Sir Frank  Packer - the faceless man, I presume - the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Mr Eric  Robinson in lh.it usurpation earned him the title of 'Tiberius with a Telephone'. The telephone seems to be his medium, because he certainly has trouble with his mail and he does not do well on television. This Government has been inflicted upon the people and it is the government of a usurper. It has completed one year in office and should therefore go to the people on its record to obtain a mandate. 
In a democracy it is usually said that the people receive the government they deserve. Nobody deserves this Government. The people certainly have not chosen it. I say that in spite of the Prime Minister's words to the contrary in his first speech after usurping office. He said: 
A mandate is merely the return of one or two parties to the government benches. They come back to carry out the policy speech that has been delivered by the leader of the 2 parties which have won the election. 
He continued: 
This Government, similar to the Gorton Government, is to be tested by the policy speech. In that policy speech many promises were made. Two-thirds of them have in fact been honoured and the balance will, without any reservations, be honoured during the lifetime of this Parliament. 
I ask honourable members to note those words. The Prime Minister chose his words carefully, though he delivered them badly. He spoke of 2 parties winning a majority of seats as being the party with a mandate. The Opposition, with a 222,000 vote surplus, certainly won a majority of votes over the combined Liberal-Country Party vote. It was not votes that gave them their mandate, and the Prime Minister was careful not to say that it was. However, he did say that the mandate he had was that assumed from his predecessor- the policy laid down in the policy speech. He has carefully stated that as the situation. 
In fact he went further. He went on to say that there was only one-third of it left to implement. Therefore it will be comparatively easy for us to test him in relation to his mandate and his performance, in relation to the policy speeches of 1969 and 1970. Taking the policy speech for the 1969 House of Representatives election first, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who was Prime Minister at that time, said that in 1968-69 our economic growth, at 8.7 per cent at constant prices, had been greater than at any previous period in our history. In 1970-71 that figure had fallen from 8.7 per cent by more than half, to 3.9 per cent. Adjusted to a per capita relationship, the figure for 1968-69 was 6.3 per cent. Under the McMahon Government it has fallen to 1.9 per cent. The right honourable member for Higgins was proud of the tapered means test. The Prime Minister has not given increases to people benefiting from that taper and it is being eroded. 
The former Prime Minister promised taxation relief to the low and middle income earners. He honoured his promise in one year. In one year the present Prime Minister repudiated his mandate at this point, withdrew the concession and increased the levy on income tax. The former Prime Minister promised $100m over 5 years for water resources development. So far only $35m has been provided. The former Prime Minister said that the Government was engaged in a co-operative study with the States into the needs of education. He indicated that the study would lead to cooperative action. The present Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has scrapped the report without any resultant co-operative action. The former Prime Minister professed to support an Australian film industry and promised to establish a national film and television school. That proposal has been shelved. The Prime Minister himself said that two-thirds of the policy had been implemented before he took office and that he would implement the rest in the life of this Parliament. Far from implementing policies, he has repudiated his avowed mandate and implemented little of what was left for him to implement. 
Let me in the time that remains for me to speak turn to the Senate campaign speech of the former Prime Minister.  Mr Gorton  said: 
But we have brought in a vastly improved health scheme. 
I think that that can be told to the marines. He also said: 
We have reduced the burden of direct taxation in one year by the amount we promised to do in 3 years. 
I have already pointed out what happened to that. He also said: 
We have continued to protect and advance greater Australian ownership of our developing resources. 
Under the present Government the situation is at its worst in our history. The former Prime Minister, during the Senate campaign, promised votes to persons of from 18 to 20 years of age at future Federal elections. Today the Prime Minister said that this would not be done before the next election. The former Prime Minister promised long-term loans to rural producers. That promise has not been honoured. The former Prime Minister promised to pay special attention to the needs of low income families with young children. Not only has this Prime Minister failed to assist such people but also he has put an unprecedented number of them out of work. The former Prime Minister announced a new objective to which the Government would give very high priority, that is. the establishment of child care centres for children of a pre-school age. The fate of that priority proposal is only too well known 
I think I should quote the closing words of  Mr Gorton's  speech. He said: 
We believe that in this decade Australia can make great advances towards freedom from fear of being old, unwanted and uncared for- 
I hope that  Mr McMahon  takes comfort from those words -  freedom from fear of unemployment; freedom from fear of being unable to meet the cost of illness. 
Not for 30 years have those fears been greater than they are today. For example, in the month before  Mr McMahon  became Prime Minister 89,000 people were unemployed. Now, one year later, the figure has increased to 130,000. Prices are rising faster now than at any other time in the post war years  Sir, on  the Prime Minister's own criterion, he has no justification for remaining in office. He has repudiated the mandate that his Government received, albeit on a minority of votes.  His  performance and the disunity, dismay, division and decay it has brought should combine to force him to the people. Any honourable member opposite who has even a spark of decency and the merest shadow of a conscience should counsel the Prime Minister to seek a mandate in place of the one that he has repeatedly repudiated since he usurped the office 12 months ago. 

 Mr Speaker - 
Motion (By  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.45 a.m. (Thursday) 
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS UPON NOTICE The following answers to questions upon notice were circulated: 
-I rise this evening to deal with 2 quite separate issues. The first deals with social services, and the problem to which I refer is one of a particular person, illustrating the plight of a small group of pensioners in rural areas. 1 ask to be allowed to have incorporated in Hansard a small chart. This was agreed tolast week when I hoped to speak on the adjournment. Both Hansard and the Minister in charge of the House at the time said that it would be acceptable. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one 'home-maker' to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As honourable members will be only too pain fully aware, last week the Government announced a decision to defer action on a wool marketing scheme. This has come at a time when the situation in the rural industry, and particularly in the wool industry, is described by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, in the 1970-71 report of the Board, in the following terms: 
This year was perhaps the most difficult experienced by the industry. The gross value of wool production slumped $188m to S547m, the lowest in money terms since 1949-1950. Over wide areas this income fall has been disastrous for thousands of farm families and others in the rural community dependent upon them. As income has fallen, farm debts have risen alarmingly. Many of the industry's biggest debtors are its otherwise efficient producers. 
After 22 years of Liberal-Country Party Government prices received by woolgrowers have fallen to a level below those received in 1946-47 and, of course, inflation has carried prices up 3 or 4 times what they were in 1946-1947. The current situation could hardly be worse. It is worse than it has been at any period for more than 30 years. Woolgrowers have been forced to leave their farms; others have been forced to lease them and others have left with very heavy debts hanging over their heads - debts that they have to pay perhaps over a long term. 
This situation has not developed overnight. It is one that the Country Party long denied existed, and one which members of the Country Party said was temporary and would pass. However, it is one that they themselves have recognised for a number of years now. They have made ad hoc decisions and have taken action occasionally to patch up some of the legislation. They have brought in schemes to try to ameliorate the situation somewhat. For instance, they brought in the emergency wool grant scheme, which dissipated $30m and achieved nothing. In fact, it gave $1,500 to people who had gone out of the industry altogether. They had no wool clip, so their income fell more than the required 8 per cent, and they received the full amount. Other people who had increased their flocks and whose income remained steady or fell by only 8 per cent received nothing. 
Throughout this period Country Party Ministers have reiterated the McEwen doctrine, saying that when the industry came forward with a decision that was unanimously supported by all sections of the industry, this Government would legislate. They mouthed those words and remained secure in the knowledge that it was most unlikely that any industry could come forward with a decision that was unanimously supported by all sections of it. Yet that happened last year for the first time when the wool industry came forward with a proposition that the Government should bring down legislation for a 40c support scheme, making 40c per lb a minimum return for producers to remain in a viable position. Of course, the Country Party was then thrown into something of a dilemma because it was faced with a test of the McEwen doctrine. The Country Party squeezed from the Government the 30c scheme for a period of one year. That legislation is due to expire very shortly. Although it is due to expire and although an announcement has been made that legislation for a wool marketing scheme has been deferred, nothing has been said about the support scheme - whether it is to continue at the same level, whether it is to expire altogether and not to be replaced or whether legislation is to be brought in for a 40e support scheme. 
Even so, the support scheme is not coming to the seat of the problem. We have had no legislation that attempts to come to the seat of the problem. That is the main cause for the problem being a continuing one. We have had all sorts of ad hoc decisions. We have had a rural reconstruction scheme with $1,000 in it for retraining. Where does $1,000 go in retraining? We have had a retraining scheme brought in which provides schooling for one year, but one year is not enough to train people for other professions, to take them out of the industry and fit them into some other place of useful service in the community. Yet at a time when we had a much smaller population and had thousands of men being demobilised just after the war, there was another government in this country that did bring in a retraining scheme which allowed men to do full courses at universities or full courses for trades. It provided for this country the professional men and the tradesmen that were required; it allowed those people to take a more useful place in the community and it established them for the rest of their lives. The same sort of thing could be done now, but no attempt is being made to do it Legislation could be brought into this place to provide a proper marketing system and an acceptable marketing system - one that has already been decided upon and laid out for this Government by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. It has been agreed upon by all sections of the wool industry, and this is what was required under the McEwen doctrine. The Australian Country Party said that if ever this was done again it would legislate accordingly. It has been done again, and once again the Country Party has shied away from taking action and has failed the test. As I have said, the situation could hardly be worse. Unemployment in the country is still running at about 100,000 on seasonally adjusted figures. It has increased from about half that number in October of last year and it is showing little sign of improving. Legislation was brought into this Parliament to provide for rural unemployment relief. The relief work was to be of the kind made available during the depression. 
The unemployed are to go on to the dole, as my honourable friend from Kalgoorlie says. They are to be given work painting fences, scratching weeds out of pavements and all sorts of menial tasks merely to take them off the statistical list of unemployed and keep them employed temporarily. That would be commendable if it was being done while a more basic type of legislation was being prepared to be introduced - legislation that would go to the seat of the problem of unemployment. But there is no sign that the problem will be improved by this Government. So the situation is not being dealt with; it is not being solved. The time for decisions is being deferred in that area, as in all other areas. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  promised long term low interest loans to rural producers to help them with their problems, but nothing has come of that. In this stiuation I have had a visit to my electorate of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He has come down there in an endeavour to help me retain my seat. This is his second visit there. While he was down there he said that the Commonwealth would give rural help. He said that the 
Government is looking into the possibility of setting up a rural bank. A year or two ago the Government said it would bring in long term low interest loans. 
That is what I am coming to. The Prime Minister in an interview in Bunbury telecast on channels 3 and 9 on Saturday night made an appeal to voters to give him a fair go. He said: 
By the time the election comes around I think people will say: 'Fair go mate, give him a chance'. This is the most difficult period I have faced in my political life. But we look to the future with a great deal of confidence provided we get a go. 
Goodness me, the Government has had 22 years in office, and within 12 months of the present Prime Minister coming to office unemployment has doubled. The growth rate of the year before he came to power was 8.7 per cent. After one year of his being in office it went down to 3.9 per cent. Adjusted to per capita figures, the rate was 6.3 per cent the year before he took office, and 12 months later it was 1.9 per cent. I think the man has had a go, and I think it is time that he was sent. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government received the final draft of the Randall Committee report? If so, when does he expect the report to be presented in this House? Is it expected that legislation to change wool marketing procedures will be introduced in this sessional period, even if the House has to sit beyond the end of next week when presently it is planned the House will rise? Lastly, since the Minister recognises the need for Commonwealth and State agreement before a new scheme can be implemented, will he inform the House of the steps he has taken to ascertain the attitude of the States to wool acquisition or other marketing schemes, to facilitate early legislative action? 
We are now debating the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72, to which the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has moved an amendment as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Parliamentary select committee should be appointed to investigate and report to the Parliament on the closing down of particular sections of industry and consequent loss of employment'. 
The previous  speaker  referred principally to one industry, the wool industry, developed, by virtue of its nature, solely in country areas. That industry employs many thousands of people and contributes to the employment of many thousands more. The wool industry has had problems developing within it for at least 10 years and the deterioration in its stability has been progressive and steady. About 12 months ago the situation was reached where the price paid for wool was the same as was paid in 1946-47, despite prices generally and wages having increased by a factor of two or three in that period. The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  referred to the setting up of committees and he said he thought them unnecessary because men ought to be able to arrive at the decisions required and necessary for the development of our country. 
Obviously this is the thing that is lacking most in the present Government. It is the factor that has contributed to the marked increase in prices in the last 12 months and the marked fall in employment to the point where prices rose in the March quarter of this year by the greatest amount for 19 years and where unemployment was running at a rate higher than for the past 10 years. These things themselves have been progressive and steady in their development but no action has been taken to meet the situation or to arrive at a solution of the problems as they developed. Instead, when the situation was grave the Government introduced rural unemployment relief which was meant to reduce unemployment figures and not to go to the seat of the problem at all. 
For many years the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and other members of the Opposition have been advocating the need for the Government to bring down a decentralisation policy and to come to an agreement with the States for the implementation of a decentralisation policy, but nothing has been done about it. Perhaps that is not quite true. The Minister for Trade and Industry and Leader of the Country Party in this Parliament  (Mr Anthony)  set up a committee to examine decentralisation in 1964, so something was done. But that committee has not presented a report to the Parliament, so it has achieved nothing. Yet the same Minister has said that this is a matter of national concern and national importance. This is indicative of the way the Country Party deals with matters of national concern and national importance. The Party is responsible for administering the rural industries of Australia. That Party is responsible for the present situation in the wool industry. That Party is responsible for the inaction at present, lt is that Party's Minister who is saying that we must wait until a series of Randall reports come down before action is taken. That Party must accept the responsibility for that attitude. That Party has been charged with the responsibility of setting up decentralisation machinery and of coming to agreement with the States. The Party has failed to do this. The Country Party took 4 years to come to agreement with the States over the marginal dairy farm legislation- 4 years to come to an agreement on a Bill that was to operate for 4 years. Although the industry was in a parlous state this proposal was gone about in a dilatory manner. The same thing is likely to happen, and indeed has happened, with the wool industry which has been 10 years in reaching its current state of need and recession. 
The present situation is illustrated by Australia's population figures from 1949 to 1971  -  the period of office of the Government. When it came to office in 1949 only S0.02 per cent of our population resided in the metropolitan areas. During 20 years of this Government there has been a steady progression and the point has been reached where that figure stands at 63.01 per cent. The figure for Western Australia was 54.40 per cent in 1949 and is now 68.27 per cent. At present in that State it is difficult to obtain employment even in the timber industry. All rural industries there are maintaining a minimum of employment and the mining industries are putting men off and are in a state of minor recession. Yet the Government seems to have no concern for this situation. It would be bad enough if that were the sole side of the picture but the situation is such that concern is felt in many areas of our community about the cost of the continued growth of our capital cities and the strategic danger that is inherent in having so large a percentage of our population residing within the 5 major capitals. Indeed, in the May 1972 bulletin of the Australian Industries Development Association it was said: 
Decentralisation is becoming an unavoidable issue in Australia- 
That is the only time that the Government ever faces an issue - when it is an unavoidable issue -  as the Slate capitals are pressed lo absorb increasingly larger populations, while country areas suffer from the rural decline and the growing rate of non-metropolitan unemployment. The reduction of employment opportunities in rural industry and in country towns is pressuring young people toward the metropolitan areas in search of work. There appear to bc two alternative choices for countering this drift to the cities. Either the problem can be faced through an endless provision of subsidies, with the rather dim hope that the problems underlying the present situation will eventually disappear, or through the formulation of a national policy for regional development supported both by the States and the Commonwealth. 
I believe that the latter is the desirable choice. It is one that the Government should accept and should work for, right from the present time. Indeed it has only 6 months in which to make some preparations. We know that once that time has expired a Labor government will see that it is carried forward at a far more rapid rate and more effectively than under the present Government. I contrast the attitude of the Government with the attitude of the State Government of Western Australia. Immediately on attaining office the Western Australian Government set up a Department of Decentralisation within the Department of Development. This year in Western Australia 2 seminars on decentralisation have been held. It is obvious that people from the eastern States are prepared to travel to Western Australia to attend seminars because they see in that State some desire to come to grips with the problem. The Western Australian Minister for Decentralisation,  Mr Graham,  has set down guidelines for decentralisation as follows: 
Financial assistance for land and buildings be extended from 30 per cent to 75 per cent for country industry generally and to 100 per cent for selected country industry. 
Interest on loans for capital expenditure be subsidised up to 5 per cent per annum for selected country industries, the subsidy phasing out over 5 years. 
New, more effective rail freight concessions be introduced on a selective basis to replace existing concessions. 
The Industrial Lands Development Authority acquire and develop land in the main country centres to attract new industry. 
Government administration be further decentralised. 
These guidelines have been laid down in that Government's first year of office. They show that the State Labor Government is prepared to come to grips with the problem, even though it is not as serious a problem in Western Australia as it is in other States. 1 hope that the House will carry the amendment so ably moved by the honourable member for Newcastle and that a committee will be set up, because the Government will not make the necessary decision. I agree with the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  that committees are undersirable when there is a government that will make decisions, but when there is a government that will not make decisions someone must be found to do the work, carry out examinations and intro duce proposals which then only have to be implemented. However we know from experience that even when committee reports and recommendations have been received, the Government has failed to act. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that local government bodies throughout Australia face serious and mounting problems of indebtedness. Is he aware that the problem confronting local government is beyond the capacity of the States to contain? Will the Prime Minister explain to the House his Government's policy for meeting the problems facing local government throughout Australia and how that policy applies? 
I have never heard a speech more full of fallicious comment than the spech just delivered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I cannot this afternoon deal with all the fallacies it contained but I will content myself with dealing with a few of them. The Minister claimed credit for the improvement in wool prices. The improvement in wool prices has been a fortuitous circumstance brought about by changed world conditions and changed conditions in the marketing situation completly outside the control of the Government, and in spite of the Government's actions and decisions. The Government has taken very little action on behalf of wool. It was very late in deciding on a support scheme which lasted for only about 12 months and has ceased operations. It was very late in deciding to set up the Australian Wool Commission. 
These moves have been beneficial but they have been aimed at dealing only with the results of some of the problems that have arisen in the industry. No legislative attempt has been made to deal with the seats of the problems and their elimination. The Minister's interpretation of what took place in our caucus is completely false. It does not accord with the facts. He has been falsely informed. In fact, what he said must have been a figment of his imagination. We decided early last week that we would move an urgency motion on this matter and we gave the Government time to bring down legislation to be debated in this place. The Minister knows that after this session no time is left for legislation to be introduced for a change in the wool marketing system before the new wool selling season commences. Parliament will not meet again until August and the wool selling season begins in July, as he said. That was one fact in a speech that was almost completely devoid of facts. 
The Minister read out part of our policy which says that wool growers would contribute a small percentage of the gross proceeds of their annual wool clip for a period of, say, 5 years in order to build a capital fund to control the marketing of surplus wool taken over. This would act as an insurance fund until the wool taken over was disposed of at the most satisfactry level of prices. He failed to read the following passage which is tied to it. The capital fund would be guaranteed initially by the Commonwealth Government by loan until the authority's fund was fully subscribed. It would then be repaid. That system already operates with the cooperative bulk handling operations in Western Australia and with wheat selling operations in the rest of the country. 
I support the action taken this afternoon by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to have debated a matter of public importance that is currently engaging our attention. I believe the situation in which we find ourselves this afternoon is deplorable and paradoxical, to say the least. It is deplorable that a government so long in office has allowed itself to neglect an industry of the magnitude and importance of the Australian wool industry for as long as this Government has done. The Australian wool industry has been this country's largest export earner for almost  200  years. The wool industry has provided a sound basis upon which our economy has been established since its inception. Yet this Government has presided over and has contributed to, through its inaction and indecision, the serious situation in which the industry has recently found itself. It is deplorable that in spite of the advice given to this Government by its own advisers and authorities outside the Public Service, the present situation has been arrived at. 
We are currently engaged in debating a motion on which there is little likelihood of a vote being taken. We are debating a motion that has no legislative content. We are debating it because no legislation can be prepared or presented in this place by the Opposition. What is worse, we are debating this motion in the almost certain knowledge that no action will be taken on it during the current session of this Parliament. In order to indicate that the sorts of proposals that have been presented to the Government by the Australian Wool Industry Conference are not unexpected or new, I shall quote from 'Farm Policy* of September  1964.  This publication is issued by the University of Western Australia. The article reads: 
At this point it is time to ask, is there an alternative? Several possibilities were noted by the Philp Committee and the Australian Wool Board. Of these only one appears capable of modifying the marketing and pricing of wool so that the producer of synthetics is forced to rely on price (as distinct from pricing procedures), and the inherent characteristics of his fibres, without the advantage of a more attractive pricing policy and of numerous non-price marketing advantages, in his competition with wool. The alternative to the present system which would enable wool to compete with synthetics without marketing handicaps is a central marketing authority. Such an authority could do the following: 
Give maximum price stability (without resort to production control). 
Standardise the preparation and presentation of the national clip. 
Sell to firm specification and firm price. 
Remove politics from promotion. 
Relate marketing directly to promotion. 
Control the volume of supply to the market in accordance with manufacturers' requirements. 
Combat concentrations of buying power and negotiate with shipping companies. 
Despite these disadvantages I conclude that a central marketing scheme is the one most likely and able to best meet the pricing and marketing needs of both woolgrowers and wool users, and is the one farmers and their leaders should be working towards. 
That was written 8 years ago and is representative of a great deal of material that has been written and prepared by people in authority. This material has been available to this Government and that, as I said, is apart from all the fine and very valuable material that has been prepared by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It is deplorable that though the proposals that have come from the Australian Wool Industry Conference could have been anticipated, the Government has not taken any action to prepare for that eventuality. Instead it has resorted to various ruses to cause further delays and, instead of obtaining the agreement of the States in anticipation, the Government is using the lack of such agreement as an excuse for delays. 
I remind the Minister of what happened with the marginal dairy farm scheme. Agreement was not reached except with one State before the legislation was brought in to this place, but agreement was reached wilh the rest of the State shortly afterwards. The same could be done in this case because I believe no State would be opposed to such legislation. I said also that the situation in which we find ourselves is paradoxical. It is paradoxical because we find that the Opposition has a desirable policy but is precluded by Standing Orders from proceeding with it. The Opposition is attacking the Government because the Government is without a policy and without any constraints either from Standing Orders or the numbers in this place. The Opposition has a shadow Minister who has done the work which is confronting a Minister who so patently has not done the work - the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Indeed, the Minister ridiculed our proposals  2  years ago and he is now caught with similar proposals from the Australian Wool Industry Conference and with the McEwen doctrine. 
It is futile for the Country Party to do as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has been doing of late - trying to blame the Liberal Party for the situation facing the wool industry. A Country Party member has held and currently holds the portfolio of Minister for Primary Industry. It is the Country 
Party which has preached the McEwen doctrine over the years. I give 2 instances of this: In answer to a speech made on the adjournment by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  on 6th May 1970 said: 
The problems facing the industry are being handled by wool industry organisations. Their representations are being given consideration by the Government. The Government has said repeatedly- 
I repeat - 'has said repeatedly' - that provided that the wool growing organisations and the wool growers themselves could present a policy or proposition to the Government, it would be only too anxious to implement it. 
I repeat - 'only too anxious to implement it'. The honourable member went on to say: 
It is the division among wool growers that has prevented the Government from taking action so far. 
This was said 2 years ago, though our policy was in existence at that time and though it anticipated what the Australian Wool Industry Conference has said. But of course the McEwen doctrine is not in doubt because the honourable member for Moore only 2 days ago said: 
It is true that the successive Ministers for Primary Industry have repeatedly stated that when the industry eventually made up its mind what it wanted, and said so with one voice, then the Government should act. 
Of course, the industry has come out with the proposals that it wants. It is united in its desires. Yet we find that nothing has been done about them. Because my time has almost run out I wish to make only one other reference. It has been said outside the House that the differences are between the Liberal Party and Country Party. This is patently false. We know that the Prime Minister himself has said only recently that there are no serious differences of opinion between the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and himself on this matter; they are as one in the Cabinet room. They are only at odds outside in the electorate. We know that the Minister for Trade and Industry says that he made it patently clear to the British Government what was required for Australia to protect its interests when Britain goes into the European Economic Community, but we find now that there were no firm proposals from honourable members opposite. It was all in the Press. The 
Minister himself said that it was in Press statements and it is to Press statements that we must look. This is not good enough. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I ask the Minister whether any decision has been made as to the use of concrete sleepers in preference to timber sleepers on certain Commonwealth railway lines. Is the honourable gentleman aware of the importance of sleeper production to the timber industry of Western Australia and, indeed, to the employment situation and the economy of Western Australia? Will he see that no decision is taken which will have serious repercussions in the western third of this continent? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, indeed I do. During question time, in order to try to score a cheap political point- 
I am attempting to do so. It is difficult when the Minister is from your own party,  Sir. The  Minister claimed that I had shown no interest previously in the question that I raised with him today. I refer him, as one small example of my representations to him over a long period, to my question of 6 weeks ago No.5653, asked on 20th April, which, although simple, remains unanswered. 
I second the amendment. This afternoon the Opposition has made an attempt to discuss the Commonwealth Electoral. Act and the 75 other items on the notice paper before the House goes into recess, but no matter requires debate or finalisation before this House goes into recess more than does the marketing of the wool clip. However, as the Government has decided that the House will go into recess today, it is important that the House should reassemble before 30th June, for the reasons given this afternoon by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I remind members that in his report for 1971 the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board made a most important statement. I use it to illustrate the importance of the wool industry to Australia as well as the seriousness of the situation that is confronting the industry. In that report he said: 
This year was perhaps the most difficult experienced by the industry. Gross value of wool production slumped SI 88m to $547m - the lowest in money terms since 1949-50. Over wide areas this income fall has been disastrous for thousands of farm families and others in the rural community dependent upon them. 
Many are still suffering the consequences of this decline. Even though the situation has improved on last year, it still is serious and it is causing concern to people in rural electorates. The report continued: 
As income has fallen, farm debts have arisen alarmingly. Many of the industry's biggest debtors are its otherwise efficient producers. 
That is known to be true by any member representing a rural electorate. While the honourable member for Dawson was addressing the House, Government members were interjecting: 'Where are the wool growers?' In reply one might well ask them: 'How will the wool growers vote on this particular issue? How concerned are they about their fellows on the farms and about the situation in the rural industries because of the inactivity of this Government over a long period?' It is all very well for Government members to say that the situation has improved. It has, but in spite of the Government not because of action taken by it. The Government now has an opportunity to show the level of its concern for electors in rural industries. It is of immense importance that this Parliament should reassemble to debate the Randall report, and that this report be tabled in this Parliament for distribution. As the member for Dawson said, we need to come back here to learn what the Government will do about the support scheme during the coming 12 months. 
Thousands of wool growers and their families and rural communities throughout Australia are in desperate need, but their needs can be met only as a result of Government decision and action. In the present circumstances it should be decision and action taken after regard has been had to the Randall report. Surely such decision and action ought to have been taken long ago. As I said in a speech I made in this House last week, in 1964 responsible individuals were advocating that total acquisition of the wool clip would be the answer to the industry's problems and that effect should be given to certain recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Council. The present position has not come upon the Government unexpectedly. As I said in my earlier speech, it should have been prepared for it. It should have prepared legislation for submission to this Parliament before it went into recess, but now that the Government has decided that the House shall go into recess, surely it should ensure that the House will reassemble in order to debate the business that we have been advocating this afternoon. One Government member, who is a member of the political Party to which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  belongs - the Minister responsible for this matter - said last week that the Government had resorted to a subterfuge in this regard. 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey). 
I agree,  Sir, but  I remind the House that the honourable member for Moore has said that the Government has resorted to subterfuge. Here is an opportunity for the honourable member for Moore- 
Very well,  Sir. Here  is an opportunity for the honourable member for Moore to avoid resorting to subterfuge. By voting for the amendment he has an opportunity to stand on the side of the people whom he represents in this place. Indeed, so can the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  As both those honourable members well know, grave concern is felt throughout the rural electorates of this country, no less in Western Australia than in any other State of the Commonwealth. Because of the lack of security felt in the industry because people do not know what the Government intends to do at the end of this month or the end of next month in relation to the support scheme or in relation to wool marketing, it is essential that they should know what is to be done. All we get from the Government are statements. We do not want statements. What we want is legislation passed through this House. But first we want a debate on the Randall report before any decision is made and any legislation is passed through here. So I support wholeheartedly the amendment that has been so ably moved this afternoon by the honourable member for Dawson. I commend it to the House and I commend in particular that the House reassemble before 30th June in order to debate the Randall report and the state of the wool industry, and in order that appropriate legislation be passed through this House. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Railways called tender for 200,000 concrete sleepers and 220,000 timber sleepers for maintenance supplies. 
Is it a fact that concrete sleepers can not be interspersed with timber sleepers in replacement programmes on existing tracks. 
If so, will the concrete sleepers be used to re-lay a section of track. 
In view of the answer supplied to Senate Question No. 1302 (Senate Hansard, 25th November 1971, pages 2120-1) that studies justified the use of concrete sleepers on the Whyalla railway line as a trial, is this tender for further supplies of concrete sleepers, justified before the trial has been able to produce any results. 
Is the size of timber sleepers specified for tendering necessary in view of the anticipated loads to be carried by Commonwealth Railways. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I preface my question by reminding the Prime Minister that his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry has stated publicly that the contradictory views expressed by himself and the Prime Minister last week were the result of the Prime Minister's lack of knowledge of the facts concerning the establishment of a rural bank. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Has he yet been advised by the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer of their plans for the establishment of a rural bank? If the right honourable gentleman has been taken into the confidence of his ministerial colleagues, could he advise the House when legislation might be introduced to establish such a bank? If the Prime Minister has not yet been aquainted with the proposals envisaged by the 2 Ministers concerned, when does he expect that he will be favoured with information on this matter? 
I address a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the honourable gentleman received a report from the Bureau of Transport Economics on the comparative qualities of timber and concrete sleepers? If so, when does he expect to announce his decision on future sleeper purchases by the Commonwealth Railways? If not, when does he expect that the report will reach him and will he assure the House that a decision will be announced before the House rises for the elections? 
We are debating a ministerial statement on urban and regional development which was delivered in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on Tuesday evening of last week. The delivery of this statement came only days after the Prime Minister's appearance on television with David Frost. From the programme 'Frost over Australia' we learned that the Prime Minister has resorted to prayer in a desperate bid to obtain deliverance at the forthcoming election. Though the Prime Minister may not have cast stones at those who have advocated the need for urban and regional development, he stood mutely by while the cities sprawled and the country areas were drained of their populations. The Prime Minister did nothing to develop a policy of urban and regional development in all of his first  22i  years in this place. Suddenly he seems to have undergone a conversion almost as remarkable as that of Saul of Tarsus on the Damascus road. Whether his conversion is the result of his urgent petitions and increased devotions, or whether he has resorted to making a death-bed repentance in an endeavour to forestall the judgment that he must surely be expecting, must remain a matter of conjecture. 
While the Prime Minister stood before us delivering his statement in all his Washingtonian truthfulness, as one who has never intentionally told an untruth, I did think that I detected something of the class of penitence which gripped Uriah Heap and Latimer while they were incarcerated and suffering the pangs of judgment imposed by their society. On the one hand, the right honourable gentleman assured us that he saw the area of urban and regional development policy as 'a matter of great national importance'. On the other hand, he has announced that the position of Commissioner will be assigned to  Sir John  Overall. 
The Prime Minister, like his predecessors, has been content to leave responsibility for this policy area in the dead hands of the Country Party. There it remained until only this year. This year, for some reason, the Prime Minister took responsibility himself for regional development. Perhaps it is only coincidental that his newfound interest in this subject has come at a time when the clouds of doom began to gather and blacken and when his day of judgment began to loom large before him. Within the space of a few months the right honourable gentleman has produced a plan for urban and regional development whereas the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  from whom he took the responsibility, had been unable to do so in the more than 8 years since the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee was first established. 
The threat of judgment has even quickened the Country Party and certain of its Ministers are supposed to have a confidential interdepartmental report on regional development; a report produced in the last few months. In the 8 years since  Sir John  McEwen, the Country Party's former leader, set up the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee under Country Party responsibility nothing happened until this year - this election year. Such urgent and precipitate action in a few months after 22 years of neglect is not at all convincing. I believe that the Prime Minister and the Country Party are as enlightened and repentant as were Heap and Latimer before them. The clue lies within the Prime Minister's choice of Commissioner. There could hardly have been any person better suited to act as Commissioner than  Sir John  Overall, had the Commission been set up 10 or 20 years ago. Had the same action been taken then and the same man appointed, the decisions would have been exemplary and convincing. At this time it is pregnant with the seeds of doubt and provides an omen of the Government's depth of sincerity in this field.  Sir John  Overall has publicly announced that it is his intention to retire next year. Therefore,  Sir John  will be available to steer the newly launched Commission only into the new year, through the difficult days of reckoning that lie ahead of this Government. One wonders whether in the light of past experience under this Government and in the light of the indifference that this Government has displayed in this field, the Commission will be allowed to collapse with  Sir John  Overall's resignation should this Government be returned. 
Being utterly unconvinced by the Prime Minister's apparent conversion to the Labor view that urban and regional development are of national importance, and seriously doubting the reality of the Prime Minister's repentance, I believe that his choice of a commissioner to fill the post for so short a time from the Commission's inception is a warning to all that this policy will not be pursued if this Government survives. Such a short term appointment at this important stage suggests that the Prime Minister has taken ill-considered and short term action as an expedient, instead of considered, long term action that this neglected area demands. 
Let me contrast the signal neglect of urban and regional development under Liberal-Country Party leadership with the policies and actions of the Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party has provided the lead in this field at the Federal parliamentary level for many years, without stimulating any active response from the agglomeration of parties and factions opposite. As my Leader pointed out in his speech  on  this subject, motions on regional development have been moved by the ALP in each of the years 1961, 1965, 1967 and 1971. The Government parties have prevented each one of those proceeding to a vote. Not only so, they have failed to substitute legislation of their own at any time in all those years. The unconcern and indifference of the present Federal Government contrasts markedly with the attitude and approach of the Labor Government when last it was in office and with the interest and endeavours of this Party in opposition. As my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has often reminded us, the Chifley Labor Government in the post-war years 1945 to 1949 established an administration to encourage and plan for decentralised growth. The activities of Labor's Department of Postwar Reconstruction and Department of Immigration provided a sound basis for Australia's early post-war development. Of the 32 factories built by the Commonwealth during the life of the Curtin Government 20 were built in rural areas. All were transferred to private industry.  Mr John  Dedman, Minister for Post-war Reconstruction, said in 1948: 
Now that neatly all the factories built in wartime are in some way disposed of, the decentralisation movement must not stop. If we are to develop to the full a country the size of Australia, there should be the greatest possible balance in the distribution of population. 
We are looking to increasing our population by sustained large-scale migration. 
This will requite new 'secondary industry to provide employment opportunity. 
As far as possible, we want those employment opportunities to be provided by developing the relatively smaller industrial centres, rather than by continued development of Melbourne and Sydney. 
In 1948 Labor saw the need to rapidly develop Australia's population growth and its resources in association with the necessary action to guide and encourage it to the most beneficial areas. Liberal and Country Party governments have failed to recognise that need and have allowed Australia to grow like Topsy. Only now are they showing some indication of recognising the errors of their ways. Liberal and Country Party governments have been guilty both by commission and omission in this field. The Menzies Government, in spite of its undertaking to foster decentralised growth, dismantled the highly sophis ticated regional planning structure which, in co-operation with the States, was built up prior to 1949. Detailed surveys of regional resources had been made and the machinery of government was prepared to plan and implement development and growth in areas outside the main cities. Twenty-three years have been lost and we suffer the consequences. We cannot go back and undo what has been done but we can begin from where we are and ensure that the problem is not further compounded. 
A Labor government would set up a department of urban affairs and regional development with the function of controlling the allocation of resources for the development of urban areas. That department will have both technical and research staff. It will integrate the activities of the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, the Department of Shipping and Transport, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Works and the Department of Civil Aviation in regard to regional planning. Regional development will be encouraged through co-operation with the States to provide effective development, to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow up the growth of our capital cities. Labor, in co-operation with the States, will nominate certain existing country cities and towns as growth areas and authorise the Commonwealth Grants Commission to recommend the nature and amount of Commonwealth financial assistance required to remove the problems of servicing those regional centres. Two centres in my State that will be examined favourably to be assisted under the policy decisions to which I am referring are the port towns of Albany and Bunbury. Areas that are designated growth centres will have telephone and telex charges reduced to bring them back into line with charges to industries in capital cities. This provision will be of great importance to regions at distances of 100 miles or more from metropolitan areas. For instance, telephone calls from Albany to Perth at present cost $1.43 for a 3-minute call during business hours. 
Labor, as a matter of priority, will move to make available land at low cost - leasehold - and good quality housing will be made available at low interest rates. 
Regional development, properly administered, should be financed largely out of savings from the continued development of cities overcrowded to the point of economic madness. Regional development is essential to stop the growth of capitals beyond the point where they already contain more than 65 per cent of the country's total population and where servicing costs are escalating beyond all reason. Regional development is necessary if people in country areas are to enjoy the benefits of metropolitan facilities and employment opportunities within close proximity. 
In conclusion, I should like to have incorporated in Hansard a table setting out the population of metropolitan areas in proportion to total population. This illustrates the seriousness of the problem that has developed under this Government and indicates that there is a strange form of justice that has worked through it all. 

<graphic href="080131197209280_111_2.jpg"></graphic>

At the outset I suggested that the Prime Minister was motivated to deliver this statement by the threatening judgment that awaits him and his Government because of their accumulated sins of omission and commission in this and other areas. I referred also to the part of the Country Party in the Government's neglect of the important areas of regional development. We can confidently expect that there will be 2 fewer members of the Country Party in this House after the forthcoming election. They will have been the victims of the centralisation that has taken place under successive Liberal-Country Party governments here and the BrandCourtNalder Government in Western Australia. The metropolitan sections of the electorates of Canning and Moore have grown so rapidly and the country areas have been depopulated so much that the Country Party members will almost certainly have fewer primary votes than both the Labor and Liberal candidates in those electorates. After the election they will be able to write to their leader and advise him that his sins have found them out. 
The legislation we are debating this afternoon must be seen in the context of other legislation and also in the context of certain actions that have been taken outside this Parliament in recent times. We have to ask ourselves why we are debating this legislation at this late stage in the life of this Parliament and why this legislation appears on the notice paper with such other Bills and statements as the Child Care Bill, the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill, the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill and the statement on foreign ownership? All of these have been introduced in the last weeks of the life of this Parliament. 
Of course, the answer is that the Government is desperately worried about its electoral prospects and is not motivated by concern for people such as the wool growers and the people involved in the wool industry in Australia. We have only to look back a few years - we have only to look back one year - to see the lack of action by this Government. Indeed over the last 10 years the trend in wool prices has been downward, and a crisis developed. No action was taken until last year when the Australian Wool Commission Bill and the support scheme with a guaranteed minimum price of 36c per lb were introduced. This action was taken after the wool industry had made proposals to the Government when the growers had decided unanimously that there was a need for a support scheme with a guaranteed minimum price of 40c per lb. After many years of saying that if the industry came forward with a unanimous proposal it would act to implement that proposal the Government introduced the 36c per lb support scheme and the legislation to establish the Australian Wool Commission. 
For years the Australian Labor Party has been proposing a policy of acquisition. My Party has said that it would introduce a scheme to appraise and market the clip and that it intended to examine the effect of tariff protection upon the wool industry. That policy, which was adopted by the Caucus of the Australian Labor Party in May 1970, is fully consistent with the proposals which were put forward early this year by the Australian 
Wool Industry Conference. It ls as a result of the unanimous recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference that we have the minor measure that is contained in the Wool Industry Bill 1972 to amalgamate the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into the Australian Wool Corporation. This legislation is only a small part of the Labor Party's policy. It is also only a small part of what the Australian Wool Industry Conference unanimously recommended and which this Government, if its word can be relied upon, is duty bound to legislate for immediately. 
As the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and other members of this Parliament have said on many occasions, the Country Party is duty bound to legislate for industry proposals which were unanimously decided upon. Of course, the cynics or the sceptics in this country believed that that was only a stalling device by the Government because they believed that there would never be a time when the wool industry would come up with a unanimous proposal. Of course, as we have found, this device has allowed the Government to stall for time for years. What happened when unanimous proposals were eventually forthcoming from the industry? The Government stalled still further. Months have elapsed since the report containing these recommendations was received. That report was received early in 1972. Now, after all these months and after the Randall Committee had been set up to stall for extra time, we find that the Government has come forward with the 2 most innocuous proposals of all the proposals that have been put forward by the industry. Nothing has been done to bring about an acquisition scheme for the marketing of the wool clip. Nothing has been done to implement the fundamental marketing proposals which have been put forward. 
Everything I have said is true. Nothing was done to prevent the wool industry in Australia reaching its nadir. Never before in the history of Australia had the wool industry been at a lower level. It reached that position over a period of 10 years. The trend was a steady downwards one during that time, but no action was taken by the Government, except the panic action that it took in the late stages and released $30m as an emergency grant to wool growers. That money was dissipated across Australia for no other purpose than to allow the Country Party members of the Parliament to go around Australia saying that $30m had been given to the wool industry. 
I was certainly against the way in which that money was distributed, yes. I will illustrate why I was against it. There was no reference in the legislation to sheep numbers. A man who had increased his sheep numbers to keep himself solvent and whose income did not drop by the statutory 8 per cent found he was cut off from getting any of the money which was made available, no matter what sort of trouble he was in. There was a wool grower in my area who was going into bankruptcy - and he was taking his father's business with him. He received a cheque for $50. Another man who was going out of farming and sold all of his sheep and therefore had no income from wool and whose income dropped more than 8 per cent as a result, put the whole of the $1,500 towards his trip overseas. This was the scandalous way in which this legislation was introduced - the hurried way in which it was done. The panic that gripped the Government caused it to take this sort of action. People such as the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  who has been interjecting, and others went around the country saying that $30m had been given to the wool industry. But when we examine the way in which it was spent, or dissipated - which is a better word to describe it - we find that this money has achieved nothing and in fact was a very bad misuse of Australian taxpayers money. 
That is the sort of legislation that this Government implemented at such a late stage. At the time the industry had reached the lowest point in history this Government brought in a rural reconstruction scheme. At no time did it tell the Australian wool growers and the Australian farmers what it was aiming for in primary industries, what it saw as the future development, what it saw as desirable or where it saw we were going. The Government did not take them into its confidence to that extent, even if it knew itself, and the question is, did it? But the Government did bring in the rural reconstruction scheme which contained proposals to retrain people. The scheme provided for the payment of $750 to retrain people and help them off the farm. Goodness knows how the Government expected that amount of money to achieve anything at all. 
Of course, it must be said that the Government later introduced a rural retraining scheme. One has to ask what sort of scheme that is. We find that this scheme provides training for 12 months. A professor in Tamworth New South Wales was asked about the scheme. He said that Tamworth would be probably oneof the best situated cities in Australia for the implementation and application of such a scheme. He said that Tamworth provides more in the way of technical and tertiary training facilities than most cities in Australia. The professor said that in that city there were 3 courses open to people under the scheme. The first was a basic secretarial course, the second a basic welding course and the third a basic mechanics course. The professor pointed out that after 12 months of training we would have a person who was middle aged or perhaps advanced middle aged with 12 months basic training and no experience. Where would such a person get employment in these fields?. This sort of scheme, of course, is to be contrasted with Labor's action in the rehabilitation scheme which it provided for men who were demobilised after the last war when Australia had a much smaller population than it has at present. 
This Government acts at the last moment and the action it takes barely scratches the surface of the problems with which it is confronted. This is so with the Bills before us at present. The Australian Wool Industry Conference came down with proposals stressing the need for acquisition and for the Government to find ways in which acquisition could be implemented and begin to work towards finding agreement with the States. This is work that has not commenced at this stage. At the moment we find that all the Government is bringing in is the one provision to amalgamate the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission and to set up this corporation. 
Yes, indeed it is. But it is only one of the recommendations. The Government has said for so many years that once it had the unanimous decision of an industry it would legislate to implement that decision. Nearly 12 months have gone by - 12 months have almost been lost. The legislation before us is the only action that the Government is taking. 
I suggest that the only reason the Government has introduced this legislation is the action taken in some places across Australia where the Farmers Union and other bodies which have been traditionally supporters of the Australian Country Party have said: 'Unless you move to bring in acquisition, unless you move to adopt the recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, we will actively work against the Australian Country Party and Liberal members'. That is one of the main reasons which have motivated the Government, even at this later hour. The other reason the legislation has been introduced is so that the Government can say before the election that it has begun to move. I say that the. introduction of the legislation has to be seen in relation to these 2 things - the disillusionment that has caused people who have been traditional supporters of this Government to say that they will actively work against it and the fact that the election is drawing so near. Because of these 2 factors the Government has brought in so blatantly measures which are designed to try to save a government that is so terribly unpopular throughout this country. I support the amendments that will be moved by the honourable member for Dawson in the Committee stage. I refer particularly to paragraph (oa) of clause 38 which reads as follows:  to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months-- 
I think that is important - 
. of the commencement of this Act; 
There is need for us to put a time on these things. This Government vacillates and allows time to pass it by and never comes to grips with the. basic cause of all the problems with which it is confronted. It allows them to develop to crisis proportions and then takes some small, supposed, remedial action that barely touches the surface of the problem that confronts it. 
To honourable members opposite 6 months is as tomorrow. Goodness gracious me. 
It is tomorrow to you in view of the speed with which you move. In 1966, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  - he was then Minister for Primary Industry - announced that he had a marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme to implement. It did not see the light of day until 1970. Four years were lost. That was the length of time for which the scheme was to operate. It took 4 years to present it to the Parliament and it is to operate for only 4 years. That is why there is a need to place a 6 months maximum on this. If this Government were returned after the election - I cannot see that happening - there would need to be this provision. If the Australian Labor Party is returned to office, as we all confidently expect, we will move to implement our policy to which we have adhered for 3 years and which is, as I said before, fully consistent with the proposal which was presented by the Australian wool industry 2 years later. That is why we have to insert a provision that 6 months be the maximum period. Once it is accepted by the Parliament, with the support of those honourable members opposite who claim to be the representatives of rural industries, we will know that the legislation will be introduced before the middle of next yea: and that there will be brought to the industry the stability and security that it so greatly needs and for which it longs. I know from meeting wool growers in my area that they are nor convinced that the high prices that rule today will last very long. They are afraid that they will enter another trough. They would rather have a stable price than one which fluctuates as violently as wool prices have fluctuated in the last few months. So 
I will support the amendments to be moved by the honourable member for Dawson in the Committee stage. I look forward to the implementation of the Australian Labor Party's wool policy in the new year as it will be introduced by the honourable member for Dawson as Minister for Primary Industry. 
Debate interrupted. 
