-I address my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the order by the Governor-General dated 13 February 1978 and published in the Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette  for 14 February 1978 calling out the defence forces following the bomb incident at the 
Sydney Hilton Hotel. If the Prime Minister does not have a copy of it, I have one for him. Why was the order drafted in such a way as to allow it to operate for an unlimited period and in States other than New South Wales? Was there a Cabinet decision prior to the recommendation to the Governor-General about the terms of the order? Why is the order still in force? Is it proposed to revoke the order? If so, when? Is it a fact that the terms of the order would permit the use of the Army and other defence forces in domestic political matters such as strike breaking? 
-WhiIe complimenting the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  for the way in which they moved and seconded the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of the Governor-General, I think that the speech put into the Governor-General's hands by his Ministers was an insult to his intelligence and to our intelligence as well. It revealed a totally inadequate grasp of structural changes in the Australian economy. 
Australia is passing through an economic revolution. Its effects are profound although they are not fully recognised and they are certainly not understood. Many Liberal members have promoted the folk myth that Australia was an economic Eden until 1972, when Gough Whitlam appeared as the serpent in the garden and wilfully created unemployment as a bizarre punishment for Labor voters. It is clear that the Whitlam years coincided with a substantial contraction in employment in some industries, coupled with a major redistribution of income away from those who were actually producing goods and services towards non-producers. However, it should be stressed that according to the 1971 census only 17.6 per cent of Australia's population was engaged in farming, mining, manufacturing or construction- that is, in the direct production or processing of goods- while children, students, retired people and women outside the work force totally 58.74 per cent. By 1976 perhaps 15 per cent were involved in goods production and 60 per cent were not. This one to four ratio goes some way towards explaining high and continuing rates of inflation. 
We in the Australian Labor Party must be careful not to create an oversimplified economic demonology and suggest that the election of a Labor government will itself automatically and instantly restore full employment. Economic debates have had a primitive, not to say Neanderthal, quality about them, especially at election time. It is essential that we understand the changes we are going through if we as a Parliament are to take an active role in shaping our individual and collective futures. The economic revolution I have referred to is usually called 'the Post-Industrial Revolution' although, as I shall suggest later, it might be described more accurately as 'the Post-Service Revolution'. Two hundred years ago- six or seven generations backbefore Australia was taken from the Aborigines, our ancestors lived in a 'pre-industrial society ' in which 90 per cent of the work force were involved in agriculture. It was like perpetual life under the National Country Party. The 'Agricultural Revolution' led to more food being grown by fewer people, causing rapid urbanisation and the long expansion of manufacturing industry, loosely called 'the Industrial Revolution', in which goods production was the largest single employment sector. This era is coming to an end in the United States of America, Canada, and many nations of Western Europe (but not Japan or West Germany) and, I suggest, Australia. 
We are into the era of 'Post-Industrialism,' a term apparently coined by the Indian writer Ananda K. Coomaraswamy and later popularised by Daniel Bell and others. In this silent continent of ours Charles Birch, Dexter Dunphy, Fred Emery and Gordon Ford are among the few to have examined the concept. Post-industrialism involves a changing economic and social framework in which, due to technological changes, a contracting proportion of the work force is involved in the production of goods and direct economic services. The term includes many related factors: 
A break in the nexus between employment and productivity in manufacturing industry and some services. 
A likely contraction of employment in some service areas- for example, banking, insurance and retailing. 
A 'post-scarcity' society in which problems of distribution of goods are more significant than problems of production. 
An economic shift from emphasis on goods/services to services/information. 
The technological impact of automation and miniaturisation. 
Computerisation leading to a quantum leap in the amount of readily available information 'the knowledge explosion'. I will not have time to develop that tonight. 
The employment growth area is likely to be in information processing services. 
Government is likely to be the greatest employment generator. 
An increasing complexity in decision making, involving a likely shift of power away from elected parliaments/governments towards groups commanding various locations', or 'situses', in society- for example, technocrats, public servants, multinationals, banks, trades unions and universities. 
The development of a 'leisure society' which may lead to a fundamental change in the relationship of man/woman and his/her work, and to a number of social problems such as boredom, alienation and anomie. 
In 1940  Dr Colin  Clark proposed dividing the economy into three sectors: Primary (that is to say, farming, mining, forestry), Secondary (manufacturing) and Tertiary (services generally including education, transport, government, utilities, construction and retailing). In 1961 Jean Gottman proposed the division of the economy into four sectors by dividing the tertiary or services sector. He suggested that general economic services such as transport, construction and retailing should be described as tertiary while the new category- Quaternary or fourth- would comprise 'services for their own sake' including sport, entertainment, tourism, and many other government activities. 
I believe that the present classifications of the economy are far too broad to assist our understanding of how and where structural changes, particularly in employment, are taking place. The service or 'Tertiary' sector is so large, occupying as it does at the moment nearly 70 per cent of the work force, that it must be broken down. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other senior Ministers talk of economic growth and employment prospects they seem to be talking only of secondary industry- manufacturing but that sector has barely changed as a proportion of the total work force for a generation. Its proportion of the work force is now likely to contract and must do so while the Government persists in policies such as payroll tax and the generous depreciation allowance on equipment which encourage the replacement of manpower by machine power. In other words, it discourages labour intensity and encourages capital intensity. 
I suggest that we ought to divide the economy into five sectors. This five part division should help us to understand much more clearly the expansion and contraction of various areas in the economy. 
Many economists accept the idea of a four part division and I commend to honourable members a valuable new book,  Economics of the Australian Service Sector,  edited by K. A. Tucker and published by Croom Helm, London. I found, with a mixture of satisfaction and horror, that concepts I had been laboriously working out myself- like Pascal rediscovering the laws of Euclid- were already being used by some of the younger Australian economists. 
The fourth or Quarternary division is devoted to the 'Information Processing' sector which, whether we like it or not, is the largest growth area in the economy. Essentially, more and more people will be employed in pushing around pieces of paper and fewer and fewer will be employed in farming, manufacturing or providing general services. I suggest the following division: 
Primary Sector (Extractive): Production of raw materials, that is, farming, mining, fishing, forestry, quarrying. 
Secondary Sector (Manufacturing and Construction): All industrial processes by which raw materials are converted to completed products- but including construction, which is sometimes defined as a service. 
Tertiary Sector (General Economic Services): The essential element of this sector is that it involves the processing of matter and /or energy and includes the wholesale and retail trade, transport and storage, some community services, provision of public utilities, repair and maintenance, and some personal services. 
Quaternary Sector (Information Processing): The essential element of this sector is that it involves the processing of symbols, such as words, images or figures, or symbolic objects which stand in the place of tangibles such as money, cheques, bank statements or title deeds and includes such categories as teachers, stenographers, typists, clerical workers, postal workers, radio, television and newspaper .personnel, telephone, telegraph and telecommunication workers, politicians, photographers and printers, lawyers, advertising agents, research workers, insurance and bank officials, the arts generally and the clergy. 
Quinary Sector (Quasi-domestic): This is sometimes described as a residual category but it can be redefined to include the provision of quasi domestic services- that is, services which are provided within the home or are analagous to domestic services, for example, provision of food and shelter, care of children and the aged, cleaning and other home duties, voluntary work for charities. This would include hotels and restaurants, and some tourist activities. The proportion of the active population involved in the quinary sector is hard to measure precisely because home duties, the largest single work category, is not considered as an economic activity unless it is paid. It has been ignored by economists and statisticians. Women's groups point out, correctly, that these services are directly essential to society and they promote production indirectly- in fact they are essential to at least one form of domestic production- yet are disregarded in economic and social planning. 
There are some anomalous areas of employment which are hard to classify- printing, defence, police and health care. Printing is obviously an industrial activity and yet it is an important part of the information industry. This Parliament is dependent on printing processes for its effective operation- so far as it could be said to operate effectively. Defence personnel perform a variety of roles which should be classified under secondary, tertiary, quaternary or quinary as appropriate. Police are in a similar position. When a doctor is giving advice he is in the information sector; when he is pulling out stitches, he is in the tertiary sector. To illustrate the relative sizes of these economic sectors, I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table and a note entitled 'The Structure of the Australian Workforce 1911-1971' and a table entitled 'Size of Work Force in Industry Sectors '. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197802235_67_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197802235_68_4.jpg"></graphic>

-1 regret that a graph illustrating those figures cannot be printed in  Hansard.  The graph indicates very clearly that the tertiary sector has stabilised and may well fall while the information sector is growing rapidly. As I indicated earlier, it might be more appropriate to call the next stage of Australia's development the Post-Service Society. However, the term 'Post-Industrialism' is now widely recognised and used and understood, if not in this House then elsewhere. When the Prime Minister and his Ministers utter the clarion cry 'Work harder!', they are essentially addressing themselves to the industrial work force in the trade union movement and to no other section. That cry is not directed to the service sector or to the information sector. There is a strongly elitist element in the cry to work harder because they are essentially directing themselves to industrial workers. 
I say to the Government that it has been elected to lead and if it wants to go ahead, do it, but it should show the House and the people of Australia that it understands economically what is happening around us. There are likely to be further changes in the division of the labour force between the economic sectors. Forecasting change, as Bell, Kahn and others have pointed out, is a very dangerous business. Clearly, however, the likely changes involve a further reduction in the size of the primary and secondary sectors as productivity rises, an increasing range of personal information services, an increasing specialisation in the professional-technical occupations. Those changes will bring with them problems which government must face. One of the problems is this: As we move into an increasingly complex and increasingly sophisticated technical age the role of a parliament comprised largely of generalists is likely to contract. More and more decisions will be made by the experts or the technocrats in various areas and they will come to the Parliament and invite it to rubber stamp what they are doing. After a time they will not even invite us to wield the rubber stamp. Many of the decisions that are being made in immensely complex areas, and the decisions about uranium mining is as good an example as I can think, involve matters of great scientific complexity which many members do not fully understand. The result is that when we endorse a decision we endorse a decision that we do not understand and that the people who send us here do not altogether understand. What I fear is the possibility of rule by technocrats, or a situation that has been described by some of the sociologists overseas as 'techno-urban fascism' or 'friendly fascism'. That is something about which we ought to be very careful. 
Post-industrialism has two major aspects. It can be regarded with fear or it can be regarded as something to welcome. It is the same with unemployment. Unemployment and leisure are opposite sides of the same coin. If somebody is given additional leisure and he knows what to do with it and he enjoys it then it can be life enhancing; but if he is deprived of the opportunity to work and is categorised as unemployed, suddenly life is shrouded with dark clouds. What is essential, I think, is that we try to grasp the direction in which society is moving. Awesome though the problems to be faced in the Post-Industrial Society are, the problems which result from pretending that society is not changing will be even greater. Though the first efforts to understand and deal with change may be small ones, they must be made. 
Before I conclude I should say that one of the economic problems is that the increasing size of the services sector, and the information sector too, will increase the problems of dealing with wage rises. Whilst labour costs in the manufacturing sector are perhaps 30 per cent, in the services sector, putting categories 3, 4 and 5 together as services, they are 70 per cent or more. Wage rises in the services sector thus have a much greater effect on cost-push inflation. It may become necessary to offer workers in the services sector alternative incentives such as shorter working hours. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I am very proud to have the opportunity to be the third Labor member for Lalor and, before I resume my seat, I would like to pay a brief tribute to my two Labor predecessors in that seat. The Honourable Reg Pollard was elected in 1949 and held the seat until 1966. He was a distinguished Minister for Commerce in the Chifley Government and a fiery debater. He is now living in retirement- unnoticed by Who's Who- in Woodend.  Dr Jim  Cairns was elected for Lalor in 1 969 after the Yarra seat was eliminated. He served Australia as a crusader for great causes- against the Vietnam war and for a more loving, compassionate and co-operative society.  His  career, which seems to many to be ultimately a failure, illustrates the difficulty in trying to reconcile the pursuit of love and the pursuit of power- a dilemma which faces or ought to face us all. If we devote ourselves to the pursuit of power we ultimately destroy ourselves, as I believe the Prime Minister will find one day when it is too late. On the other hand, if we pursue love we may opt out of the struggle for power. In this way we abandon the struggle to those who are willing to use the bludgeon or the boot without compassion. Jim Cairns rose to be Treasurer and  Deputy  Prime Minister, but I think he would rather be remembered as a teacher and a prophet of the alternative lifestyle. 
I am glad to be able to serve in this Parliament with the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  a man who will be remembered as one of the greatest Australians. In a land of political pygmies, Gough Whitlam was our Gulliver. Future historians will pay to Gough Whitlam the tributes which have been denied him by the present electorate. In conclusion I say that I look forward with optimism to a new era in Labor politics under the leadership of Bill Hayden and Lionel Bowen. 
I want to add a few words to those of my colleagues the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  about working conditions in Parliament House. As one of the newest members here but having experienced working in another place, I confirm that working conditions here are really poor. In some respects I understand that working conditions are at least a little better than they have been because offices are not now shared. I do not think any honourable members now have to share an office with another member, but I know that this was the case in the last Parliament. Nevertheless, as my friend the honourable member for Scullin points out, we have to share our offices with staff members if we use them; and we surely need to use staff in Canberra. 
My office accommodation is on the other side of the building, the Senate side. It makes me think of the small train under the Congress building in Washington which takes people from the House of Representatives side of the building to the Senate side. In the short time I have been here there have been odd occasions when I think we could have made use of that train. 
Yes, there are some distinguished members over there, and also some Liberal members. I was disconcerted this morning when the charming lady who does research in room L52 next door to my office came in and said that she thought it only fair to warn me that she could hear every word that I said on the telephone. 
-That is an uncharitable comment. It seems to me that members face enough hazards as it is. We face the hazard of potential electronic bugging of the telephone by courtesy of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It seems a bit hard that at the same time there should be direct aural interception as well of what we say. There is no doubt that this will have an inhibiting effect about what one actually says on the telephone. 
I think it is important that, if we are to have physical security in the building, there ought also to be reasonable security about what we say and do within the building. I am very concerned because rooms have been made available for office accommodation which were not intended for that purpose and which were perhaps originally parts of suites with adjoining doors and so on. Something ought to be done to ensure reasonable security for members. I hope that the day will hurry on when we do have a new and permanent parliament house in Canberra, one that is properly designed. This building, with respect, has been most improperly designed. It is very badly ventilated. It is a difficult building in which to find one's way around. I hope a decision on the new and permanent parliament house will be taken soon. I hope that the parliamentary institution itself, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  says, survives long enough to make it worthwhile to have a new building. 
-The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is the greatest single personal destructive force in Australia's political history since Billy Hughes. Like Hughes, the Prime Minister has an enormous, inordinate, unappeasable drive for power. Like Richard Nixon, with whom he shares many characteristics, he is an ostensible conservative who does not hesitate to radicalise political institutions and conventions so long as his actions help to consolidate him in power. The Prime Minister sets out not merely to divide but to destroy. Five major victims have fallen to his dagger. The first was John Gorton in 1971; the second was Billy Snedden in 1975; the third was Gough Whitlam in 1975; the fourth was Phillip Lynch in 1977 and the fifth was  Sir John  Kerr in 1978. I never thought I would feel a degree of sympathy for  Sir John  Kerr, surely the least sympathetic figure to be Governor-General since the Duke of Gloucester. But whereas the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was the victim of  Sir John  Kerr and the present Prime Minister in 1975, 1 suspect that in 1978  Sir John  Kerr has been the victim of a master strategem by the most cynical pragmatist in our political history.  Sir John  Kerr has been lavishly rewarded, winkled out of office prematurely by the promise of the job with the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation and then forced out of his Paris appointment by a storm of protest which the Prime Minister must have anticipated and, I suggest, has actually welcomed. 
Under the Prime Minister's patronage  Sir John  Kerr became the greatest collector of honours in our political history. In a two-year period he collected a GCMG a PC, a GCVO and an AK. This one man dynasty is worthy of being ranked with the Bonapartes, the Harmsworths and the Coles family. The Governor-General was no longer the fount of all honour; he was the repository of honours. Now  Sir John  Kerr has been dropped from a great height. It was made clear by the Prime Minister's explanatory statement today that the Prime Minister was not even available to talk personally to the ex- Viceroy.  Sir John  now faces the personal tragedy of exile from his own country. Even if he is consoled by financial security it is still exile. He is Australia 's most famous remittance man, our very own Flying Dutchman, condemned to eating the bitter bread of banishment, a latter day Julien Sorel. 
Our cynical Prime Minister sprang the trap for  Sir John  in two ways: Firstly by inducing him to repudiate his own declaration that a GovernorGeneral should not grant an early election for partisan advantage where the Parliament is workable; and, secondly, by appointing him to a job which he had personally declared redundant, had abolished and resurrected only to suit  Sir John's  convenience. The Prime Minister, like  Sir John  himself, has destroyed every patron he ever had. I believe that it was essential for the self esteem of the Prime Minister to remove the man who put him in office so that the events of 1975 could be forgotten. The great destroyer has struck again with his usual deadly aim but I believe that the acts of 1975, 1977 and 1978 will not be forgotten and I believe that the Australian people will revolt against them. 
-I am very glad to have the opportunity to speak in support of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the Address-in-Reply. The Fraser Government exploits democratic forms such as secret ballots, universal suffrage and general elections, but its spirit is essentially anti-democratic, hierarchical and authoritarian, without that respect for minority opinion, compassion for the weak and capacity to take the long view which is the essence of the democratic spirit. If I might quote myself, as I pointed out in my book  Age of Apocalypse: 
Fascism was completely democratic in form, relying as it did on universal suffrage. 
It is impossible to think of Fascism or Nazism in the context of the traditional, aristocratic regimes, say of the Habsburgs. It was essentially a product, or perversion, of democratic procedures such as general elections, universal suffrage, universal literacy, large-scale advertising campaigns, referenda and mass parties. Fascism was not a party of the extreme right as is sometimes asserted, but of the 'extreme centre', basing its appeal on the 'little man' who feels threatened by changes in a world that he does not fully understand. It is no accident that the 1920s- the high water mark of democratic forms in Europe- saw the rise of fascist parties in Italy, Germany, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Rumania and the Baltic States- all of them based on mass parties and universal suffrage. Both Hitler and Mussolini came to power absolutely constitutionally, and there is little reason to doubt that they both represented what a majority of the Italian and German people wanted at that time. The justification very often of the Fraser Government's actions is that honourable members opposite say: 'Well, we won, didn't we?' Of course Hitler and Mussolini could have said exactly the same thing. 
To take a more recent example, there can be little doubt that successive Ulster Unionist governments in Northern Ireland elected to the Stormont Parliament were elected according to democratic forms and that they represented the fears, prejudices and hatreds of a majority of the Ulster Protestants. But just as Edith Cavell said: 'Patriotism is not enough', we may say that sometimes a bare majority of votes at an election is 'not enough'. What the Ulster Unionist governments lacked, and what, I suggest, the Fraser Government in Australia lacks, is a sense of the democratic spirit. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has confessed himself to be an admirer of the writings of Ayn Rand, a Russian born writer in the United States, and in particular of her most alarming novel  Atlas Shrugged,  a truly repellent book which, nevertheless, needs to be read by honourable members if we are to understand the Prime Minister's political philosophy. That philosophy illustrates what I described in my maiden speech on 23 February as 'techno-urban fascism' or 'friendly fascism'. Miss Rand summarises her philosophy, which she calls objectivism, as follows: 
Metaphysics: Objective Reality. 
Epistemology: Reason. 
Politics: Capitalism. 
The anti-altruistic philosophy of the central character of  Atlas Shrugged,  John Galt, who is an extraordinarily Fraserian figure, is a rejection of altruism and compassion. That is one of the reasons why we find that this Government has such an utter disregardfor issues such as unemployment. The view it takes of unemployment is to say, if 7 per cent of the work force is unemployed, that means that 93 per cent of the work force is employed. To the people who comprise that 93 per cent, it is not a problem. Of course, for the 7 per cent who are unemployed, it is a big problem. Seven per cent is only a small percentage compared with 93 per cent. So the Government says that it does not have to worry. 
On the other hand, it says that inflation affects everybody. Because inflation affects almost 100 per cent of the population- perhaps the 7 per cent at the bottom do not have enough assets to be affected by it seriously, but it affects 93 per cent- it is really a very serious problem. From a political point of view, it is much more potent. I think the Government is absolutely right in electoral terms. 
I believe that this country can no longer be regarded truly as a democracy. We really need a new word to describe Australia's current rulers. It is extraordinary that Australia, the most urbanised country in the world, should have a ruling elite dominated by farmers, amongst whom graziers are the largest single interest group. We ought to adopt a new word for 'rule by graziers'. Unfortunately, the Greeks did not have a word for 'graziers' because they were all small farmers. The best that I can suggest is the word 'nomadocracy' which means rule by pastoralists or the word 'bucolocracy' which means rule by herdsmen. I wrote about this matter some time ago to the honourable member for Werriwa (MrE. G. Whitlam). He replied: 
We really need a word for rule by wealthy Western District school prefects on the superphosphate bounty. Bucolocracy' has a nice flavour, though more appropriate, I think, to Anthony than to Fraser. 
I believe there are very profound differences between the two major political parties in this country. Some critics, some commentators, feel that the parties have converged towards the centre and overlap a great deal. I believe such people are wrong and I am pleased to see that the honourable members occupying the crowded government benches opposite agree at least with that proposition. 
The Australian Labor Party ought to be renamed the 'Other Interest Party'. The main beneficiary of Labor voting will very often be non-voters- migrants, Aborigines, the sick, the poor and the ignorant- and not necessarily the voter and his or her children. The Labor Party symbol could well be a pair of field glasses, because the voter very often has to look some distance away from himself and his immediate self interest to see the beneficiaries of Labor voting. 
The Liberal Party stands, as it has always stood, for the status quo, with some degree of upward social mobility- a preference for society as it is, or as it will be in the short term, choosing the known rather than the unknown. It is a 'now ' oriented party which has a hope of some future economic opportunities for children. Very often Liberal voting is a reinforcement of an optimistic self image, since the people who vote Liberal sometimes have to say: 'We are a cut above the others in this street. We vote Liberal'. 
The Labor Party, on the other hand, stands essentially for change and social levelling. There is a preference for society as it should be or will be in the long term. The Labor Party prefers to take a chance on experimenting with the unknown rather than accepting the known with all its deficiencies. As a result the Labor Party is future' oriented, with a hope of improved economic security 'now'. Labor voting is a reinforcement of a sense of concern for others generally, but not excluding oneself. The Liberal Party is essentially hierarchical, paternalist and success oriented. 
One of the most extraordinarily successful elements of the Liberal Party is the fact that it secures very many 'deference' votes. By the 'deference ' voter I mean the person who feels a greater sense of identification with, and commitment for people whom he perceives to be above him in the social hierarchy rather than people he sees to be like himself. In a sense it is extraordinary the success with which the Liberal Party has persuaded the consumers of Australia that they ought not to identify themselves economically with the interests of other consumers like themselves but 644 REPRESENTATIVES 9 March 1978  Governor-General's Speech  that they ought to identify themselves with the Party of the manufacturers. 
Perhaps one of the strangest aspects of all as I say, is that it has persuaded large urban populations of Australia that they ought to be prepared to vote for the party of the graziers. It is also extraordinary in many ways that the area of greatest success for the Liberal Party and its allies has been in securing the votes of women. I was very interested to hear this afternoon the deeply felt maiden speech of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns).  It was no accident that when he referred to trie people 's House of the Australian Parliament he described to its occupants perhaps five or six times, absolutely correctly, as 'gentlemen'. While women comprise more than half the voting population of Australia- here we are- an all male Federal House. This is perhaps the most sexist Parliament in the world. The Liberal Party has been successful in persuading the women of Australia that they ought to vote for the Party which has never expressed any interest at all for the status of or the possibility of greater options for women in Australian society and to reject the Party which does invite women to consider that there may be options they may take other than the traditional role. It is obvious from the election results that most women are quite prepared to accept the Liberal Party position in relation to them. I think this state of affairs is bad, not just for the women of Australia but also for the future implications of Australian society. 
The Liberal Party, of course, attracts very many traditional votes, but I suspect that one of the reasons why many people in this essentially apolitical society of ours prefer to vote for the Liberal Party is that the Liberal Party seems to be less like a political party than does the Labor Party. This occurs simply because the Liberal Party is more successful in reflecting existing community attitudes than the ALP which is concerned to effect political change and to bring about a different type of community. 
The Liberals are supported very much because of what they are or what they are perceived to be, that is, 'economic managers', 'responsible people', 'natural leaders', 'people who are high on the social hierarchy', or what they stand for generally, that is to say, prosperity, growth and capital appreciation rather than for what they promise specifically at elections, which is usually not much. Because the Liberal Party does not promise very much at elections it is not harshly judged if it does not deliver the goods. On the other hand, the Labor Party, while it certainly attracts many traditional voters, is rejected by many apolitical voters because they dislike the fact that the Labor Party is committed to political changes which are in conflict with existing community attitudes. 
-S winging voters choose Labor because of the policies it stands for and its specific promises of reform. Labor promises major changes and it is judged very harshly if it does not succeed. 
I am concerned because this Government seems to have no clear view of the future. It has failed to understand the changes in the domestic economy or the changes in the international economy. It has no forward vision at all. The Liberal party is concerned purely with an opportunistic view of society in the very short term. 
In conclusion let me say that I too share the concern of other honourable members on this side about the proposal for extra security precautions in this House. Somebody said that the worst thing about going to prison was being forced into the company of criminals. It might be said that one of the worst things about being in a parliament house like this is that one is forced into the company of politicians and bureaucrats. I resent anything which acts as a filtering process to sanitize the electors, to keep them out of this House and to deprive them of access to their members. If this Parliament is to have a keen sense of reality and to identify itself with the community it needs to keep its doors open and not closed. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) Under what terms and conditions is whaling carried out at the Cheynes Beach station in Western Australia. 
What part-time or full-time research on whales is currently being carried out by the Australian Government. 
Who are the nominees of the Australian Government on the International Whaling Commission and its scientific committee. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether it is a fact that he issued an instruction on 22 December 1977 that a letter of intent awarding a major computer contract to Facom Australia Ltd should not be issued. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister took this unilateral action without the advice of his Cabinet? Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister issued this instruction blocking the awarding of a contract to Facom on the same day as he spoke personally by telephone to the  Chairman  and Managing Director of IBM Australia Ltd,  Mr A.  G. Moyes? 
-I wish to draw the attention of the House to a new concept which may be unfamiliar to many honourable members but which deserves to be understood. I refer to the concept of intergenerational equity. 'Intergenerational equity' means that in adopting patterns of resource use we ought to strike a balance or to act equitably between the needs of this generation and the needs of generations yet to come. 'Intergenerational equity' was the subject of several articles in the October 1977 issue of the periodical  Futures  and I commend it to honourable members. Professor David Pearce of Aberdeen University, in his article 'Accounting for the Future', makes the following points: 
Mankind has already entered into a 'Faustian bargain' with Nature, trading evident and desirable increases in material standards of living for unknown and unforeseen costs. That life itself is a risky event no one would question. Why then should there be any special concern now about the nature of this bargain? 
He explains later in the article:   . . while man's capability for understanding the future effects of his actions grows, there must be a considerable doubt as to whether his capability for controlling the technologies that may generate those effects will grow at the same pace, and whether institutions will exist to deal with the problems. 
However, he states: 
. there are indications, no more than that, that an ethical shift is taking place. The new ethic commands us to consider the fact that trade-offs are all too easy to make when the gain is ours and the cost is someone else 's. For the current generation, a situation where A gains and B loses at least implies a potential for A and B to negotiate or to establish protective laws. But the nature of the bargain is now one where the losers are future generations who, by definition, have no voice and hence no chance to alter the behaviour of current generations. In short, without an ethic of concern for the future, future generations near and distant may have to bear a disproportionate share of the costs of actions taken now. 
Professor Pearce says: 
Where costs and benefits are reversible, little problem arises. If we believe that future generations will value motorways - 
Or, as we in Australia would say, freeways-  then their future valuation is properly included in any present assessment of motorways (which immediately raises questions about the efficacy of discounting). Moreover, such an inclusion is legitimate if we judge that, with existing technology, future generations can reverse the investment if they do not like motorways- i.e. if we make a mistake in judging their views. To be cautious, we need make no assumptions about future technology: We can judge technical reversibility on the basis of whether current technology can or cannot reverse any effects of the decision or investment. 
Of course, as members of Parliament, we represent the present generation; but we ought also to act as trustees on behalf of generations not yet born who will want to use this planet after we have finished using it. I have always felt an obligation to represent constituents who are not yet living. This concept of intergenerational equity ought to be taken into account in many areas. For example, if we could secure abundant cheap fuel for 20 years now but only at the cost of depriving children and grandchildren of any reasonable access to fuel, would we do it? I suspect that many supporters of this Government would. The same principle of concern applies very much to subjects such as whaling, uranium mining and export, freeway construction and the excessive use of polluting chemicals. As I said the other night, I think the views of the Government are expressed in Ayn Rand's  Atlas Shrugged  by the dreadful motto of the leading character which is shown in capitals in the book: 
I swear by my life and my love of it that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine. 
I remind honourable members that that is the favourite book of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He has said that that book has influenced him more than any other. Clearly it rejects the whole concept of intergenerational equity. I think it is essential that this House begin to think about the subject and to think about it urgently. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to recent newspaper reports that on Christmas Eve last year IBM announced a doubling of its equity involvement in its main Australian company by providing $15m and that it also added an extra $3m for a rental company in Australia in which it previously had an equity of only $ 100? Did these actions occur only two days after the Prime Minister telephoned  Mr Moyes  of IBM Australia Ltd to inform him that retendering for the Australian Bureau of Statistics computer was to take place? 
-I want to reply to what the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  said in his rather ungenerous comments about the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  I am surprised that the honourable member for Wilmot does not see the situation in the same light as the honourable member for Franklin sees it. He seems to rely on the absolutely pious and, I think, completely misplaced hope that later on the Government will do something that will improve the situation. He recognises that the present Bill is a palliative but he says: 'Surely we will get something more out of it.' There is no reason to assume that we will get anything more out of it because this is a completely superficial- a contemptibly superficialpiece of legislation which deals only with the superstructure of the problem and does nothing to look at the sub-structure of the problem, the base causes of the inequity in the motor fuel industry in Australia. 
Let me remind the House what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his policy speech just before the election last year.  His  words were: 
Immediately after the election the Government will take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country, without adding to city prices. 
This will be done by subsiding freight costs outside the metropolitan area on motor spirit, aviation fuel, automotive  distillate and power kerosene. In effect, it will reintroduce the country freight differential scheme abandoned by the Labor Government. 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than lc per litre (4c per gallon) above city prices and to less than half a cent per litre (2c per gallon) in the life of the new Parliament. 
But let us remember this: Because of the way in which petroleum products are distributed in this country- that is to say, very largely by bulk- it is quite clear that of the 10,000-odd places from which petrol is sold, 52 per cent will not be affected at all by this subsidy because the amount of freight cost is less than 4 per cent. In other words we have a gesture. The Government says that above 4c there will be a subsidy. If there is a 5 c cost, the Government will provide an effective subsidy of lc. The problem with this is that there is no attempt really to equalise prices because there is no attempt to alter the differential base of metropolitan and country fuel prices. In the cities of the 'Bermuda Triangle', as Lang Hancock would call it, there is no uniform base price. In many outlets the city price is far less than the wholesale price approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal. The result is that it has been calculated that there will be no subsidy for 52 per cent of the 10,000 locations throughout Australia and that only about one-third will have a subsidy of more than lea gallon. 
Let us look at the situation of petrol prices as they affect the whole country. Last year we had a petrol price rise of 11c a gallon. It is expected that there will be a price rise of the order of 10c a gallon for each of the next four years. So the point is that the Government is really talking about saying to the people in the country: 'Look, it is all right. Some, perhaps as many as 2,000 or 3,000 outlets, will have a subsidy that in some cases may be more than lc a gallon. Mind you, at the same time we are prepared to jack up the petrol price by about 50c a gallon'. It is absolutely absurd to pretend to the people of Australia that here is a gesture that will really effect some substantial change. To say to the people of Australia, 'This is the Bill you are looking for, this is the Bill that we promised back in November 1977 to equalise the price' indicates that it is an absolute hollow sham; merely a contemptible gesture with no substance to it whatever. 
-It is, as the honourable member for Capricornia says, merely a carrot for the donkey. I do not believe that the people of Australia, the people of Tasmania or the people in rural areas will believe that it is a serious gesture or that it is intended as a serious gesture. The Bill introduced by the Minister is entitled the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill. It really ought to be called the 'States Grants (Esso-BHP) Subsidy Benefit Bill', because that is what it is. The fuel industry in this country is one of the great rip-off areas of the Australian economy. It is a terrible thing, particularly for those who come from Victoria, such as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and myself, to realise that the prime culprit in handing over Australia's assets to Esso-BHP was the former Victorian Premier,  Sir Henry  Bolte. Instead of getting fuel locally produced at a reasonable economic price, we are paying the penalty for pricing policies that were really adopted by  Sir Henry  Bolte. I should draw attention to the amendment ably moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in which he points out that the Government: 
fails to- 
Implement the election promise of the Government 'to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country' and, 
b) improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas, and 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum '. 
I draw attention briefly to that report of  Mr Justice  Collins delivered to the Parliament in April 1976. In Part XVII-'A System of Administration',  Mr Justice  Collins says: 
The oil industry, Australia-wide, is in need of reform in areas which have been described elsewhere in this Report. They may be summarised as follows: 
. A re-structuring of the pricing system; 
There is nothing whatever in this Bill to really restructure the pricing system. It merely deals with the surface. When the honourable member for Wilmot was speaking earlier- I notice that he has left the chamber- he failed to recognise that the system was ineffectual, too small and a mere makeshift expedient which deals, as I said, only with the superstructure and not with the substructure. To say that this will solve the problem merely by saying 'Well, we hope that there will be better legislation later on' is like taking an aspirin: One feels less pain at the time, but it does not relieve the cause of the disability. I continue with the areas in need of reform as summarised by  Mr Justice  Collins: 
A rationalisation of retail outlets with a consequent reduction in numbers; 
Regulation of dealer company relationships; 
A program of crude oil conservation. 
In all these areas, the Commission recommends that a system of public administration should be introduced at a national level. In all of them there is a body of opinion in favour of such intervention. 
We do not hear from that body here tonight. We do not see anybody with the exception of the honourable member for Franklin, whom I believe has acted courageously over this matter, get up and talk about the need to rationalise the fuel industry. 
-Let us hear from the honourable member before this debate concludes tonight. The report goes on: 
In the area of service station rationalisation, it is generally acknowledged that a program must be adopted and it is recognised by some of the oil companies themselves that this can only be done under government supervision. 
Do we really see this Government taking an active interventionist role in the fuel industry? Do we see it taking the fuel industry on? Of course we do not. The Government lies in the same bed with the fuel industry. The last thing it is going to do is do anything that will threaten the power of the 'Seven Sisters' in Australia. Indeed, the Government is a willing collaborator with them. The report continues: 
Some of the functions which the Commission suggests the Agency should undertake are quite new. 
They certainly would be new. 
These are: 
The establishment, regulation and enforcement of a rationalisation system to achieve the goals proposed in this Report. 
Do we see this in this Bill, this slender Bill which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is at the table, blushed to have to introduce to the Parliament? I continue with the functions: 
The licensing of all refineries, terminals, depots, service stations and other market outlets. 
Do we see this in the Bill? We can hold the Bill up to the light and we can not even see it printed in invisible ink. It is not there. This is just a matter of temporising, of fooling around with the whole nature of the petroleum system. It is not something to tinker with; it has to be dealt with at the base. I continue: 
The re-structuring of the pricing system. 
Well this is not a restructuring of the pricing system: It is a mere re-allocation of the icing on the cake, to spread it around a little bit up at the top and they say to the people: 'Well it's sort of what we promised you'. Then we will find all sorts of eager advocates of Government policies going around to their constituents and saying: 'Look, it's all right. We know that this Bill doesn't mean much but more is on the way'. And if the people were to ask: 'How do you know more is on the way?', they would say 'Well, the Government wouldn't promise what it did in 1975 and not deliver. Otherwise we might get to the stage of thinking that the Prime Minister and senior Ministers were not honest, were not truthful, that sometimes they pulled the wool- or the oil- over people's eyes'. I continue with the functions: 
The monitoring of landed costs and transfer prices. 
The standardisation of the lease agreements between oil companies and their dealers, and the establishment of a suitable degree of contractual independence for dealers. 
Do we see that in this Bill? Of course we do not. 
The establishment of a conservation program. 
Such a program would make sure that people get the best value for money out of their fuel. 
I turn to the matter of fuel conservation. One of the most disappointing things about this Government has been its absolute failure to bring down a rational policy on energy conservation. We know, for example, from the Green Paper on Energy that was prepared by the Victorian Government and from papers such as the 'Efficient Use of Energy', the paper produced by the British Ministry of Energy and Technology, and from a book with precisely the same titleEfficient  Use of Energy-  produced in 1974 by the American Physical Society, that there is a great need to persuade people how to get better energy value for money in the fuel that is wasted, particularly in transport. It has a very high degree of waste amounting to nearly 50 per cent of our total fuel needs. Whilst people are induced and cajoled to buy more and pay more, we do little to persuade them to get the best value for money out of their energy dollar. I think it is scandalous that this Government, in the face of a well-recognised energy crisis, is doing nothing to persuade the people that there ought to be a rational national energy policy. That is why again I say that this Bill is superficial and facile in the extreme. It is a contemptible gesture in the direction of some kind of equalisation without really going to the base. The other functions read: 
The provision of conciliation and arbitration services contemplated by the proposed company dealer contract and leases. 
The determination of prices of all petroleum products. 
In the report  Mr Justice  Collins repeatedly lashed at the organisation of the petroleum industry in Australia, and it is a positive pleasure for me to be able to join in the attack as well. I do urge the House to support the amendment so ably moved by the honourable member for Blaxland and to ensure that this Government will, before this session is completed, bring down a Bill that really attempts to solve the problems of the fuel industry in Australia in a more comprehensive way instead of tinkering at the moment and giving what appears to be a pretended benefit but which in fact to the overwhelming bulk of the people who live outside the metropolitan area amounts to utter triviality. Then this House will have something of which it can be proud. We can bring down comprehensive legislation along the lines recommended by  Mr Justice  Collins. It is extraordinary that this important report has not been given the consideration it deserves. I hope that before this session is over we will see a Bill which does implement the recommendations. 
I would like to make some reference to clause 3. The extraordinary kind of legislative power that is given to the Minister so that once a scheme is formulated by a Minister he has the force of legislation - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The Australian community should work out a national information policy as a matter of very high priority, and there are 10 brief points that I want to make. One: All Australians are entitled to free access to information and library services of acceptable standard relative to the affluence of the State, regardless of where they live, their social and economic position, their language, their age, their mobility or physical disabilities. Two: The effective working of democracy depends on the availability of adequate information and the capacity for its independent evaluation. The right to know, to be informed, is basic to every person. Access to information and the right to its availability should be vigorously pursued. In our society, access to information is a vital resource of government and of the public and, like other resources, it should not be concentrated in the hands of the rich. Three: The Australian community is divided between the information rich and the information poor. Women, migrants, the aged, the young, the poor and the handicapped are victims of inadequacies in the information delivery system. Information facilities are remote from those who need them most. They do not know what is available and do not know how to remedy their lack of information. 
Four: The enormous inequity in information transfer means that the position of the individual compared to governments and corporations may deteriorate rapidly. The increasing volume of available information may lead to, firstly, an increasing tendency towards specialisation and the fragmentation of knowledge; secondly, a growing sense of alienation or anomie from many people who feel unable to understand what is going on around them; and thirdly, a risk that power will move towards the technocrats and away from generalists such as members of parliament and general institutions such as parliaments. Five: Information problems should not continue to be treated in the narrow perspective of science and technology and left to scientists and experts alone. They should be envisaged in the broader context of knowledge and social welfare in which information is regarded as a fundamental resource. Six: Governments must not allow automated systems and networks to develop in a chaotic fashion for strictly commercial motives. They must understand and plan for general control over the new technologies that will come into use everywhere within the next 10 years. 
Seven: As recommended in the Coombs report on government administration, a Commonwealth information advisory council should be set up to define and codify, firstly, the right of access of individuals or public and private bodies to this information resource and the inherent limits to this right; secondly, the political and social guarantees which individuals and institutions can legitimately expect, including protection of privacy and professional secrecy; thirdly, the basic rules of reciprocity which should govern relationships between public and private systems and networks; fourthly, a code of ethics tor professions and industries concerned in this field. 
Eight: The provision of public library and information services should remain the collective responsibility of Commonwealth, State and local governments, funded in part by each of those levels of government, as recommended by the report of the Horton Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, which has not yet been discussed by this House. Nine: Public libraries must become information resource centres, including local data banks, information about access to government services, with greater emphasis on non-book material such as gramophone records, tapes, cassettes, microforms and audio-visual materials generally. Ten: The expansion and extension of all library and information services should be achieved through co-operation and or contract and the formation of library systems and networks, again as recommended by the Horton Committee, with each service retaining its autonomy within the overall State plan for the development of these services. Already existing information services should be co-ordinated and integrated to avoid duplication and waste of resources. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Can he say whether the use of chloroform as an ingredient in pharmaceuticals has been under investigation in the United States of America as a possible cause of cancer: if so, what have been the results of the investigation. 
What brands of toothpaste currently on sale in Australia contain chloroform as an ingredient, and what is the percentage in each case. 
What action does he propose to take to draw attention to the United States findings on the potential dangers of chloroform. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Reserve Bank has been pushing down forward margins on the United States dollar below the relative differential between interest rates in Australia and interest rates in the United States? Is the present margin unrealistically low and is it intended to reduce it further? Is the Reserve Bank pushing down forward margins in order to bring the Australian dollar to parity with the United States dollar? If so, does this indicate that the Government wishes to establish an open foreign exchange market in Australia? 
I seek leave to move circulated amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 together. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), omit 'the Minister may', substitute the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'the Minister may', substitute 'the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (3), omit 'the Minister may', substitute the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (4), omit 'the Minister may', substitute the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
Let me explain briefly the purport of these amendments. I think there never was a piece of legislation with such a deceptive long title. The purpose of the Bill is to 'empower' Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, who live on reserves in Queensland, to manage and control their own affairs. There is very little in this Bill and certainly nothing in clause 5 about management or control. It might have been more effective perhaps to have called this Bill the Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islanders (Commonwealth Ministerial Control) Bill because, whenever the question of the distribution of power is mentioned, one finds that the strength of the Aboriginal reserve councils is very small and the power of the Minister is very strong. Essentially in proposed clause 5, in which there are four subclauses, each of which the Opposition seeks to amend, the proposal is that where a council for an Aboriginal reserve or an Islander reserve requests the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to make a declaration or even where the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Islanders or Aborigines want the Commonwealth to take action, the Minister may take action. But the clause does not state when. The two points that are made in this series of four amendments which the Opposition has moved to clause 5 are, firstly, that in each case the action should be imperative rather than permissive. In other words: The Minister shall take action. Secondly, the amendments impose a time limit. The Opposition's amendment states that the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request, declare the reserve to be an Aboriginal reserve. The Bill says that the Minister may, by notice, declare the reserve to be an Aboriginal reserve to which this legislation will apply but when shall he do it? Will it be within a year of receiving notice, within five years, within the life of the Parliament, within a generation or until the Labor Party is next in office? How long will it be? It could be two and a half years. 
The Opposition believes that, if the Government is doing what the Bill says, if it is empowering the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders to have self-management- and that is the other word that appears in the short title of the Bill- it ought to make it possible for them to have that self-management. We believe that the only way they will have that self-management is to require the Minister, once he has received that request and once it has satisfied either of the criteria laid down in the Bill, to declare the reserve an Aboriginal reserve which he shall do within a reasonable time. It is extraordinary that the Minister has been telling us tonight that the Government cannot wait. The legislation must be passed through the House tonight. The Government cannot brook any delay. But when we look at the actual legislation and ask what are the time limits in the legislation, the Minister says that there are no time limits. There is absolutely no urgency. Once the Bill is passed there is no urgency about the action the Government will take. He says it can be done any old time. I think it is absolutely essential to make sure that the criterion of self-management which appears in the short title of the Bill but which appears nowhere else in the legislation be carried out. 
We have been told that the Minister said a couple of weeks ago that the Opposition had indicated that the Bill had to be passed urgently without delay. That is true. We did say that a couple of weeks ago. But we never dreamt in our most censorious moment that we would be faced with such a shonky piece of legislation as has in fact been dished up to us. 
-Or, as my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh points out, that the Premier of Queensland would back down. There have been several backings down over the whole history of this matter. First there was a backing down by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  It was the most extraordinary and craven back down since Henry IV went to Canossa. They backed down only to find that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had decided to take on his role of supremo. Once more, in his role as the great destroyer, the next person in his sights is the Premier of Queensland. I am not a believer in capital punishment but I think in this case I am prepared to make an exception for the Premier of Queensland. He is obviously marked out for destruction. It may well be that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may go down with him. There has been absolute supine weakness with the Government taking more positions than found in the  Karma Sutra  over the last couple of weeks. We have been told about the great urgency of this matter and we have heard about the consultations that took place. But did the Minister show the people at Aurukun the Bill? Of course he did not show them the Bill. He used that magic monosyllable 'it'. They said: We want it passed'. But if they said to him: What is the 'it' that we want passed', he simply clasped the draft legislation to his bosom and refused to show it to them. They did not know what was in the legislation, and the Opposition did not know what was in the legislation until 10 o'clock last night. That was the first opportunity we had to look at it. 
It is a difficult, complex Bill in many ways, and it ill becomes the Government to act in this way, recognising the poor resources that Opposition members have in this Parliament compared with the enormous resources that Government members have in this place. The Government should recognise that this is not an evenly balanced Bill, that no effective power is given to the Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander councils but that a great deal of power is given to the Minister. Having seen the Minister's form in the last couple of weeks, I think we are justified in expressing some anxiety as to how those important discretions are to be exercised. I make this appeal to the Minister: Instead of allowing for a clause which, in this form, enlarges his prerogatives and his discretion and makes the authority of the councils of the Aboriginal and Islander reserves very low indeed, he should do something to redress the balance. 
-I confess that that is correct. I appeal to the Minister at this late stage or when this legislation is passing between here and the other place to take into consideration that if the Bill is as urgent as he says and if, as he indicates, he intends to declare Aurukun and Mornington Island at the earliest opportunity, there is no reason why there should not be a time limit set in this clause. I ask the Minister to accept amendments Nos 5 to 8 which change the nature and the balance of forces in clause 5. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
With respect to the execution of 21 New Guinea indigenes on 5 July 1 943, 6 September 1 943 and 7 July 1 944 following conviction by Australian military courts for murder and/or treason, are the following documents still in existence (a) the report of G.O.C. First Australian Army on the series of trials between March and June 1943, (b) the proceedings of the trials, (c) the summary of the trials, and (d ) the original minutes of confirmation of the sentences. 
If the files are still in existence, where are they held and are they available for inspection; if not, what happened to them. 
I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  'that a joint committee be established to inquire into and report on unemployment in Australia'. The nation is passing through the first stages of a basic structural change in its economy, the effects and extent of which are not easy to foresee. In my maiden speech on 23 February I spoke about the Post Industrial Revolution' or, to use two alternative names, the 'Post Service Revolution' or the 'Information Society'. I want to enlarge upon a few points. 
My electorate, Lalor, illustrates the problems of contracting employment in manufacturing industry. Rockwell Standard of Australia Ltd, Tubemakers of Australia Ltd and GKN SankeyBenson Division are only three good examples of large firms employing large numbers of men. Their manufactured products can be produced more cheaply overseas. Prevailing circumstances in Australia suggest that employment prospects in manufacturing are likely to contract rapidly. Tubemakers of Australia Ltd, for example believes that 150 jobs are immediately at risk. The most recent Commonwealth Employment Service figures available concerning my electorate are as follows: Altona, 759 unemployed in February; Sunshine, 3,079 unemployed in February; Werribee, 483 unemployed in December- there are no figures since; and St Albans, 1 ,346 unemployed in February. That is a total of 5,667 people registered as unemployed. 
It is true that those figures include some residents of the adjoining Gellibrand and Maribyrnong electorates. However the CES statistics conceal much of the reality- that many people who are unemployed, especially girls, are carried' by their families and do not register for unemployment benefit, and that people who secure part-time work often- not always- are not included in the statistics. Vacancies amount to barely more than one per cent of the number of people unemployed. At St Albans, for example, the number of vacancies is only 13 for 1,346 jobless. One of the most disturbing features of the last election campaign was the increasingly punitive attitude that many people, especially older people, took towards the unemployed. The Protestant work ethic is obviously still alive and well. Clearly some citizens want to use whips and scorpions against the jobless, to punish them for what they believe is a slothful unwillingness to take on a job. However changes in manufacturing technology make it possible for us to produce far more goods with a much smaller labour input. In the United States it is said that of all output 98 per cent is produced by machine power, one per cent by human power and one per cent by animal power. 
As late as 1967 it was possible for the then Minister for Labour, the Honourable Leslie Bury, to feel able to say: 
Australia is one of those countries that does not engage in manpower planning. We are fortunate in possessing vigorous product and resource markets in which demand and supply forces can operate freely. 
Most of the members of this House grew up in a time of full employment. I exempt, of course, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  Most of us have taken full employment for granted. It is only in recent years, in the 1970s, that we have now come to accept that a large proportion of unemployed, perhaps somewhere between  5lA  per cent and 7 per cent, possibly even higher, will be taken as the norm as it has been in Canada and the United States for a long time. I do not believe that we ought to accept this situation readily. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short chart produced by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which appears in Robert Heilbroner 's book entitled  Business Civilization in Decline.  It gives the percentage distribution of employed workers in the United States, France, West Germany and the United Kingdom and indicates the striking fall in the number of people employed in manufacturing industry. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804066_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

Australia has become a 'post scarcity' society in which the main economic problem is no longer the production of adequate supplies of goods but their equitable distribution. The motor industry illustrates this very clearly. The productive capacity of the Australian motor industry is far in excess of current demand: The major problem is to find markets for the units actually produced or those which could be produced. As we know, Australian motor vehicles face extreme economic competition from imports and the prospects of Australian cars securing an export market are dubious. The survival of the industry depends on maintaining high- even excessive- levels of demand; accepting the concept of 'built in obsolescence' so that the turnover of vehicles is somewhat higher than is strictly necessary to meet community needs- as opposed to the needs of the motor industry. 
Obviously it would be theoretically possible to have a 12 month moratorium on all new vehicles purchases; that is, that every resident, every company and every government department would maintain the use of existing vehicles and forgo the purchase of new motor vehicles for one year. However, the impact of such a decision would be catastrophic for the whole economy and fatal for the motor industry which could not survive a 12-month enforced layoff. Yet the implications of shifting from a 'scarcity' economy to a 'post scarcity' economy are not adequately recognised by the community at large and, I venture to suggest, not fully appreciated by the Parliament either. That is why a select committee seems to me to be an adequate way of examining the various serious implications. As I say, a 12-month layoff in the car industry would have terrible effects on car sales, appliance manufacturers and many related industries. Yet the survival of the motor industry in its present form depends on the maintenance of unlimited quantities of cheap fuel- a pre-condition which is unlikely to be maintained for the foreseeable future. 
As we become more sensitive to more balanced resources use, this will have a critical effect on the employment prospects in certain industries. We need to know far more about this. We ought to be examining the significance of the concept of 'intergenerational equity'; that is, the idea that we ought to maintain some balance between the use of resources by this generation and the availability of resources for use by future generations. I direct the attention of the House to some remarks made by Professor Heilbroner in his book  Business Civilization in Decline.  At page 80 of his book he points out: 
Basically, the challenge arises because industrial growth, or capitalist expansion, is an exponential process- a process that proceeds like a snowball, requiring continuously increasing quantities of resources and spewing forth continuously increasing quantities of wastes, simply to maintain a constant pace of expansion. No social processes of an exponential character are capable of indefinite continuance. Sooner or later all such processes must overload their environment, consuming all its nutrients or poisoning it by the waste products associated with growth. That is why curves that originally shoot upward in near-vertical fashion sooner or later bend into 'S ' shapes, or actually reverse themselves and to into decline. 
He gives an example of this with coal, which he says is the fossil energy resource available in the greatest quantity. He continues: 
It is estimated that the ' ultimately recoverable ' amounts of coal, which includes all of this resource thought to be located within the top kilometre of the earth's crust, would suffice to maintain our current rate of coal use for over 5,000 years. However, if our use of coal continues to expand at a rate of just over 4 per cent a year- a conservative estimate, given the impending exhaustion of petroleum supplies- this same ultimately recoverable' resource would be consumed within 135 years . . . Perhaps even more impressive is the application of exponential estimates to supplies of all minerals. Today we extract and use about 2.7 billion tons of the ten leading minerals each year. If our rate of use were to grow at a modest 3 per cent a year for a thousand years, this would entail a weight of materials greater than that of the earth itself. In fact, it is doubtful that we could sustain our growth of these ten leading minerals for a period of 200 years. 
Again this is another problem that ought to be looked at by a select committee. Can we sustain the present level of exponential growth without stripping the earth so that future generations are unable to maintain an adequate level of life? If this problem is examined Australia may perhaps be one of the first countries to try to work out solutions if, in fact, solutions exist. 
I want to mention a few other things briefly in passing. I do not think it is possible to understate the importance of the issues that are raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. We ought to examine very seriously the implications of the 'limits to growth' philosophy put forward in the famous report  Limits to Growth  prepared by the Club of Rome. We ought also to be prepared to look at completely new approaches to the work force particularly ways of absorbing the unskilled and semi-skilled. We ought to examine at least the argument put forward by  Dr E.  F. Schumacher, C.B.E. in his book  Small is Beautiful  that in some industries we ought to deliberately reverse the tendency towards capitalintensity and encourage labour-intensity; that is, small-scale manufactures. For example, it might be better for a city to have 200 medium sized bakeries, each serving a comparatively small area and each employing five or six people, than to have two giant highly mechanised bakeries each employing 300 people and dominating giant slabs of the market. Socially it might be far more desirable to encourage employment with small, or what Schumacher would call ' beautiful ' industry. I am not saying that this is the answer. I am saying that it is an option that needs to be examined very quickly. 
We need to look at the implications of work rationing. At a time of unemployment such as we have at the moment we ought to examine very seriously the idea of voluntary options for early retirement. We ought to consider the implications of the 35-hour week very seriously. I believe that we also need to look at changing patterns in education to help enlarge personal ranges of choice. An extraordinary number of young people have a condition that sociologists call anomie. They feel they have been trained in an absolutely useless way in the schools for job situations and opportunities that do not exist. We have to be careful not to delude ourselves that this is just a matter of some fine tuning in the economy and that if we apply a few bandaids and take aspirins suddenly all the problems will go away. 
We need to have generous opportunities for job retraining and updating qualifications. The community must plan new policies for resource use, land use and recreational facilities, all of which will change the relationship between man and work. We need to have more provision for adult education, especially in the arts. We need a guaranteed minimum income, a project which was put up in the United States in 1969 by so impeccable a conservative as Richard Milhous Nixon because he recognised that there was a need to have a guaranteed minimum income in the 'post-scarcity' society in order to keep up the level of demand. If the level of demand was not kept up, the effect on the economy would be catastrophic. 
I urge honourable members to examine the report entitled  New Patterns for Working Time  which was put out in 1973 by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This followed an international conference in Paris about the need to provide a variety of different options relating to use of time. People must understand the value of time so that they can work out a time usage pattern which is appropriate for them but which may not be appropriate for anybody else- appropriate for them because there will be plenty of social pressures outside which will threaten their sense of individuality. It is important to take whatever steps we can to preserve individuality against outside pressure so that people have not only equality but also true liberty. I urge the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to accept the motion put forward very constructively and lucidly by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I believe that we need a bipartisan approach to this problem. I believe that a joint select committee would be the best way by which we could look at unemployment and work out a long term solution for what is our greatest social problem. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill is a very badly drafted Bill. It illustrates some of the complexities of legal drafting. I daresay that there is a fair degree of consensus throughout this crowded chamber about the purpose of the Bill. Most of us would agree about what its overall objectives are meant to be. But, when we come to examine the fine print, we cannot be happy with what the Government has presented to us. What do we find? It is true of very much of Australian Government legislation for the Government to say, 'We have drawn the Bill very widely but it is all right, do not worry about it! We will read it very narrowly in practice'. There will be built in protection. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  will make sure that the Bill is read narrowly. 
I want to begin with what is not just a narrow, semantic point but an indication that the Bill is not properly thought through. This the persistent misuse in the marginal notes and in the long and short title of the Bill of the word 'incursions'. The Bill is not really about incursions at all; it is really about foreign excursions. A foreign excursion is defined from the viewpoint of the country of origin; it then becomes an incursion from the point of view of the country of destination. The words incursion' and 'excursion' are complementary, like imply and infer, and are not interchangeable as is sometimes thought. According to the great Oxford English Dictionary, an excursion is 'an issuing forth against an enemy', and an incursion is 'a hostile inroad or invasion', that is from the point of the view of the place invaded. To talk about a 'foreign incursion' is a contradiction in terms. It is like talking about a partial virgin. It is just not possible. 
I think also that the wording of clause 3, the definition clause, lacks a certain precision. As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  quite correctly pointed out, we will be in some trouble with the definition of 'foreign country'. In the Bill 'foreign country' means 'any country outside Australia'. That obviously includes the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Canada. I am not sure whether it includes Antarctica. That is quite a complex question. What about Lord Howe Island or the condominium of New Caledonia? Are they foreign countries? Obviously we can all foresee the situation where a country like New Zealand may well want to recruit somebody in Australia. Nobody would object to that, but the present form of the Bill would mean that to go through this process it would be necessary for the Attorney-General to sign an instrument and publish it in the  Gazette.  I should have thought that a more satisfactory situation would have been to provide that foreign country' meant any country outside Australia with the exception of- then we might well include- the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Canada and other dominions of the British Commonwealth. 
Similarly, when we speak of the definition of government', it will be recalled that in the previous debate, in 1977, there was considerable criticism because there was no definition of the word 'government'. When the previous legislation was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the Committee recommended a definition of the word 'government'. Of course, looking at the reality of foreign affairs, enormous complications may arise. The classic case is that of East Timor where there is a de jure government on the other side of the world in Portugal apparently not taking much continuing interest in the situation, a de facto rule right on the doorstep in Indonesia and an active group of independence workers who want self-government for this area which is so close to Australia. It means that, reading that definition in the context of clause 7, there could be the absurd situation where somebody could set up an organisation called 'Stockpiles for Portugal', collect all the bombs, weapons, armoury, poisons, munitions and explosives that he wanted in order to make use of them for Portuguese purposes, which, I suggest, is perhaps fairly remote from the purposes of the Australian community, and would commit no offence at all. On the other hand somebody who felt badly about the East Timor situation and decided that he wanted to raise money to assist the Fretilin forces might, if the Attorney-General was malevolent enough to proceed with the prosecution, be faced with a ten-year sentence. I find it an absolutely Gilbertian situation that under clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) the person who was collecting arms for Portugal would not be in trouble but that the person who was collecting money for Fretilin could face imprisonment for 10 years because one represents the de jure government and the other does not. 
-Of course I am not talking about Indonesia. I am talking about Portugal. Portugal is still the de jure government of East Timor. Clause 6 of the Bill is an extraordinary clause, perhaps almost as extraordinary as some of our Antarctic legislation, because it imposes a concept, absolutely breathtaking in its scope, of extraterritoriality. Clause 6 states: 
1 ) A person - not necessarily an Australian person, but a person who has some linkage with Australia- shall not- 
enter a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country; or 
engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity against the government of that country. 
With respect, that really seems like legislative breast-beating. It is hard to see how it will be carried out in practice. Once the bird has flown, once he is in the other country, it is hard to see what the Government can do about it except to wait until he comes back. It is extremely unlikely, I submit, that he will come back, if he thinks he will face a sentence of 14 years. 
A matter which the honourable member for St George mentioned in the 1977 debate, which he did not refer to again tonight and which is worth touching on is the concept of double jeopardy. It may well be that a mercenary may go overseas, be convicted and sentenced to some severe penalty and then, as soon as it is completed, be repatriated to Australia, to be greeted by the smiling face of the Attorney-General who says: "There is another 14 years for you here'. That seems to offend against the principle of natural justice. What does it mean to engage in a foreign country in a hostile activity against the government of that country? What if a person on the other side of the border has a machine gun and just keeps firing? Is he engaging in a hostile activity? He is certainly pretty close to the border, but he is not on the wrong side of it. 
-They may want him to stay the night. So far as clause 6 is concerned, it is true that if we go back into the history of Australian foreign relations many people would have some doubt about this clause, particularly when we recall the period of the International Brigade of the Spanish Civil War. Honourable members will remember that in that case the Republican Government of President Alcala Zamora was in fact the de jure government until 1939. It would be easy to imagine a political trade-off of some sort around 1936 or 1937. There might well have been a recognition of the Franco regime which was the insurgent regime. That would have put many Australians whom I certainly would regard as great idealists in very real jeopardy. So I must say that I have some real doubt about the applicability of clause 6. I certainly do not think it has been properly thought out. 
Honourable members will note that there is an addition to this Bill. It is different in form from the original version. I refer to clause 6 sub-clause (4), which states: 
Nothing in this section applies to an act done by a person in the course of, and as part of, his service in any capacity in or with- 
the armed forces of the government of a foreign country; or 
any other armed force in respect of which a declaration by the Minister under sub-section 9 (2) is in force. 
That was added as a result of the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The Entebbe situation raises some tricky points. It was suggested during the debate in 1977 that if an Australian had been involved in the Entebbe operation, working with the Israeli forces, he would not have been guilty of a hostile act because entering Uganda was not to be regarded as a hostile activity against the government of that country. I doubt whether Idi Amin would take that precise view. A good illustration of this is where one says: 'It is really a rescue operation and we would not want a rescue operation to be included in it'. Perhaps that is so; but the clause is drawn so broadly that we cannot take any comfort from it. 
Let us proceed to clause 7. I am very concerned about the drafting of this clause, particularly as it keeps referring back to proposed section 6. Clause 7 (1) (b) is a particularly curious provision. It says that a person shall not accumulate, stockpile or otherwise keep arms, explosives, munitions, poisons or weapons for the purpose of the commission of an offence against section 6, whether by that person or by another person'. The wording is very strange indeed. I could understand it if it said 'in breach of section 6' or 'so as to breach section 6', but I do not think anyone could imagine an international desperado, no matter how reckless he may be, when asked why he is collecting weapons, saying: 'I am doing it for the purpose of committing an offence against section 6'. It suggests that for an offence to be proved one must have a conscious desire to defeat proposed section 6. I understand clearly the factual situation that the Bill is trying to deal with but it seems to me to be a most extraordinary way to draft it to say 'for the purpose of the commission of an offence'. The desperado could put up a defence and say: 'I had no intention of breaching that particular section. I did not know what the section was'. I think that it is a very badly drafted section and that it ought to be changed. 
I agree with several other remarks that were made by the honourable member for St George. 
I am puzzled by the fact that the original clause 
I I is missing from this Bill. The original clause 1 1 read as follows: 
1 ) A provision of the Judiciary Act 1903 by which a court of a State is invested with jurisdiction with respect to offences against the laws of the Commonwealth has effect, in relation to offences against this Act, as if that jurisdiction were so invested without limitation as to locality other than the limitation imposed by section 80 of the Constitution. 
Subject to section 80 of the Constitution, where a person has committed an offence against this Act outside a Territory and is found in, or brought into, the Territory, a court of the Territory has the same jurisdiction in respect of the offence as it would have if the offence had been committed in the Territory. 
The trial of an offence against this Act not committed within a State may be held by a court of competent jurisdiction at any place where the court may sit. 
It was a nice, blameless clause. I do not know whether it added a great deal to the original Bill, but I would be interested to know why it has been dropped out. It was not referred to by the Senate Standing Committee. The Committee did not recommend its deletion. It has simply been dropped out. 
Let us turn now to clause 9. Clause 9 ( 1 ) (a) is much too broad and the wording is gobbledegook. It says that a person shall not recruit another person to serve in any capacity in or with an armed force in a foreign country, whether the armed force forms part of the armed forces of the government of that foreign country or otherwise'. Clause 9(2) also is much too broad. I would very much prefer the legislation to set out a schedule indicating the purposes for which people could be recruited and where they could be recruited and excluding the rest. At this stage the Bill has almost done the whole rounds. It has been through what is sometimes laughingly called the 'House of review' without apparent complaint. It has been considered by the Senate Select Committee and it still does not pass muster. I suggest that an appropriate course of action would be for the responsible Minister to propose the adjournment of the debate on the Bill and to provide an opportunity for discussion of amendments that might be proposed. I submit that very few people in the House are happy with the form of this legislation. They may accept, as I think we all accept, the intention of the legislation; but the point is that we should not legislate just to put out a whole series of windy propositions on which we all agree, and say: 'It is all right. It will all work out on the date. We will leave it to the Attorney-General. He can be trusted to act properly'. Somebody remarked that this is supposed to be a government of laws, not a government of men. One should not just rely on a benign Attorney-General to carry the laws through in the proper way. One should get the Act right. The Government should say: There does not need to be a great deal of administrative discretion on the part of the AttorneyGeneral. The details of whom we are trying to punish and why are set out in the Bill '. 
I think that we are all agreed, and I hope that the Minister will recognise, that there is a Gilbertian element about this legislation, particularly in clauses 6 and 9.I hope that he will agree to seek the adjournment of the debate. Nobody has had very much to say for the mercenaries. Even their financial rewards, tax free as they are, have not stored up gold for them in heaven. Whilst I was preparing my speech I could not help thinking of the words of A. E. Housman in his poem  Epitaph on an Army of Mercenaries: 
These, in the day when heaven was Tailing, 
The hour when earth 's foundations fled, 
Followed their mercenary calling, 
And took their wages and are dead. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce on a matter completely different from that raised earlier. When the Minister was Treasurer was he responsible for recommending to Cabinet appointees to directorships of the Australian Industry Development Corporation? Did Cabinet in March 1 977, on the recommendation of the Minister, appoint  Mr G.  N. Crawford-Fish as a director of the Australian Industry Development Corporation with a fee of $5,750 a year and a daily allowance of $125? Further, was  Mr CrawfordFish  also appointed to a directorship of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd with a fee of $3,450 and a daily allowance of $ 1 2 5 ? 

 -Mr Speaker, I would be grateful if, for the protection of honourable members, you could make further inquiries into this matter and then give a ruling. There are matters other than the Brych report and the documents which have been tabled in the Queensland Parliament that ought to be taken into consideration. For example, in the last couple of weeks the report of  Sir Gregory  Gowans, Q.C., on the dealings of the Victorian Housing Commission has been tabled in the Victorian Parliament. Clearly, that is a privileged document so far as members of the Victorian Parliament are concerned. If I, as a Victorian member of the House of Representatives, received an inquiry from somebody in Tasmania or Queensland for information about the report and I then send a copy of the Gowans report, does that mean that I am not covered by the privilege which would have been attached to me when I was the member for Melbourne in the Victorian Parliament? I think the extent to which there is reciprocity or full faith and credit as it were about the privilege attaching to a document tabled in another Parliament needs to be clarified. It is a very important matter. It is not a matter that had occurred to me before. Perhaps it had not occurred to many other members. It needs to be clarified and I would be grateful if, perhaps in the next week or two, you,  Mr Speaker,  could give a ruling on the matter. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1 978: 
1 ) How many houses have been allocated to the RAAF in each Victorian Housing Commission estate in the Werribee sub-division of the Electoral Division of Lalor. 
How many of these houses are currently unoccupied, in each estate, and what is the reason in each case. 
What is the average period for which houses have been vacant in each estate, 
Are any houses surplus to RAAF requirements; if so, how many. 
-The Lalor electorate is the core of what is sometimes called 'the deprived west' of Melbourne. The whole area has a population approximately equal to Adelaide's, but with only a tiny fraction of Adelaide's cultural, social or sporting amenities, whether they be cinemas, swimming pools, football fields, meeting halls, golf courses or radio stations. Adelaide has two national stations, four commerical stations and one university station. The 'deprived west' of Melbourne has none. 
The area is in a band roughly 10 to 30 kilometres from Melbourne's centre, but psychologically and environmentally it is as far from Melbourne as Ballarat or Bendigo, with a deepseated sense of social isolation which will be difficult to overcome. Added to this is a certain environmental bleakness, made worse by the official vandalism and lack of effective planning by many public authorities- State and Commonwealth. Perhaps 40 per cent of the population have a mother tongue other than English. In some areas the figure is as high as 60 per cent. The area is also extremely badly serviced by public transport and road linkages. It seems to me exactly the kind of area that could be well served by the issue of a category E or educational licence, a category S or special interest licence or a category C or community licence. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  will recall that in 1974-75 there was an attempt to secure a radio licence for the Sunshine City Council. At the time it was laughed at by many people in the State Government. Yet what they were trying to do was absolutely correct. My predecessor,  Dr Jim  Cairns, and the Department of Urban and Regional Development played an important role in encouraging this project which was slapped down in 1975 and which was subject to constant attack by the Victorian Government. But if the Mornington Peninsula can have its own station 3 MP, then why not 3DW for the ' deprived west'? 
My first instinct on reading the ministerial statement on the development of public broadcasting by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications was to applaud it. But careful rereading of the statement raises many complex issues which the statement does not go very far towards resolving. The Minister's statement, if he will forgive me, reminds me of what is often said of Chinese food: It is agreeable to receive and easy to digest, but afterwards you still feel hungry. The Minister said in his statement: 
I am well aware of widespread concern about what has been described as the 'haphazard ad hockery' of broadcasting planning and regulation since its inception in this country. 
He went on to say that his statement was:  the first of a series in the Government's systematic approach to the development of policy guidelines for the entire broadcasting system. 
I should have preferred to see the working out of a national information policy, as I suggested in the House on 4 April. We could then have moved from the general to the particular. With this piecemeal statement, virtuous though it is, whilst we can infer the Minister's general views on information policy, we still find ourselves backing from the particular to the general- in other words, ad hockery, not of course in a haphazard way, but nevertheless backing into the problem. 
The propositions in support of public broadcasting look good at first because they are in marked contrast to the present state of the broadcasting industry. Apart from the Australian Broadcasting Commission which at least presents a considerable variety of programming, the commercial radio industry presents little more than popular music, news and weather, sports commentaries and, in some cases, 'talkback' programs. There are few, if any, fully produced programs on radio apart from those on the ABC. Australia 's media ownership is the narrowest oligopoly anywhere in the world outside one party States. 
We must examine the statement in its commercial context. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table entitled 'Metropolitan Media Ownership and Control' from the book,  Politics and the Media  by Henry Rosenbloom. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804103_66_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804103_66_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804103_66_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804103_66_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804103_67_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. I do have some anxieties about possible implications of the ministerial statement, although I do not question the Minister's good intentions. However, the statement could represent the thin end of the wedge for the ABC. At present, a major justification for the ABC's admittedly high budget is that its charter requires it to provide for a wide variety of minority interests. What if a whole series of small scale local stations were deemed by a future government or by a future Minister to relieve the ABC of that need to be comprehensive? It might be said, for example, that the existence of 3MBS-FM in Melbourne, run by the Music Broadcasting Society of Victoria, reduces the need for 3AR-AM to provide fine music. It might be that if the State education departments have their own stations then the ABC has less need to provide educational programs. I should hate to see what we think of as minority interests being edged out as tiny, weak and impoverished while the general audience remains big, strong and profitable. The commercial networks have never been under any pressure to seek any goal other than to pursue the goose that lays the golden eggs. 
When has there ever been any attempt to persuade existing licence holders to attempt to diversify their programs, to provide a greater range of choice to encourage a range of taste? The creation of the E, S and C licences will be valuable if it stimulates the whole area of broadcasting commercial and non-commercial as well. However, it could cause positive harm if it increased pressure to push diversity in programming towards the fringe, so that the mainstream increasingly becomes rapid, stale, repetitive and unadventurous. 
Australia has been a multi-cultural society since the late 1940s. But to our lasting shame, our mass media, not even the ABC, has never reflected this. So far as radio and television is concerned, it simply never happened. It is so extraordinary. Perhaps we are the only country in the world where the transmission of a French film in the French language or of a German film in the German language has until recently been prohibited. In Australia, we could not have subtitles; it had to be dubbed. 
The issues that concern migrants as a whole have not been discussed adequately in and through our media and I doubt whether they will be now. If ethnic radio simply means presenting recipes for minestrone, borscht and gefilte fish, it will have failed and will become increasingly marginal. When did the mass media last provide programs which could stimulate children or young people between the ages of 12 and 18 other than treating them as part of an exploitation market on behalf of advertisers? The very point made by the Minister at page 7 of his statement may be reinforced if minority interests are increasingly isolated from mainstream broadcasting. By equating the mass media audience with the market, our community runs the grave risk of confusing breadth of response with intensity of response and of confusing short-term and long-term factors. 
The media can have great influence in moulding tastes. Unfortunately, in the commercial sector, excessive emphasis is put on the goal of promoting an instant disposable culture, the product that is quickly created, quickly consumed and quickly thrown away. We confuse the best-seller with the masterpiece. If we take the 1978 sales figures alone, Harold Robbins might seem to be a greater writer than Leo Tolstoy or the  Sound of Music  might seem to be a greater work than the  Marriage of Figaro.  But if we take a longer time scale- 10, 20 or 30 years- then Tolstoy and the  Marriage of Figaro  soar ahead. Unfortunately the time scale of commercial media operation is hostile to the encouragement of higher critical standards in taste or to recognising the arts as one of the greatest stimuli to self-understanding and personal development. Not everyone is moved to tears by the French Post Impressionists in the Jeu de Paume - 
Debate interrupted. 
-I rise to second the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders that has been moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  which would enable - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Lalor be not further heard. 
Question put. 
-In my speech yesterday, until I was choked off at 10.30 p.m. by the adjournment debate, I was giving qualified endorsement of the statement on the development of public broadcasting by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  I want to summarise the reasons for my qualification. Firstly, the Government has failed to take sufficient lead in working out a National Information Policy, that is, a comprehensive outline of the rights of Australian residents and citizens to access to information in a form which can benefit them. In my view, we should begin with a general statement of information policy and then move to the particular- a paper such as this ministerial statement- rather than the other way round. However, I appreciate the anomalous situation in which the Minister may well find himself with regard to the experimental licences which were set up under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act. They have to be regularised and brought in. It could be that this is why we are getting the cart before the horse. 
Secondly, we can infer that the Government divides the mass media into two categories. The first category is dominated by market forces only, that is, the commercial sector and the second category is not subject to market forces, that is, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the proposed public broadcasting stations. I am concerned that this statement could be used by an unsympathetic Minister- for example, the previous Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who is now Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  to reduce any pressure on the commercial stations in the first category to diversify programs or to provide any stimulating programs for ethnic groups, women, children and young people. Even more alarming, it could lead to the view that the ABC should leave minority interests- for example, serious music and discussion programs such as  Broadband- to  public broadcasting and that the ABC could be cut back to being a pale imitation of the commercial networks. In my wild imaginings I sometimes think of the possibility that an economy-minded Minister, not the present Minister, might well say: 'There are six ABC orchestras. Why do we need more than one? Surely we can rationalise the whole system and have the one orchestra shuttled round the nation?' He could even say: 'Why do we need the provision of fine music at all? People can play instruments at home if they want to. They can listen to frequency modulation radio from the music broadcasting societies. Why does there have to be a public contribution?' I do not want to pursue that reductio ad absurdum too far, but I am sure that the Minister appreciates the dangers. I have no fear while the present Minister holds his office. 
Thirdly, I have said that most mass media had failed to accept responsibility for shaping and training taste. It is inevitable that commercial radio should reflect the ethos of capitalism and that turnover and immediate economic response are decisive in determining program policy. Short term considerations outweigh long term ones and the great artistic tradition which has shaped western culture has been ignored. As I started to say yesterday before I was cut off, not everybody is moved to tears by the French Post 
Impressionists in the Jeu de Paume but to those who are the memory can never be effaced. Our commercial media often gives the impression that any appeal is wasted unless it is aimed squarely at the lowest common denominator. Immediate appeal and long term satisfaction are not the same thing. 
Fourthly, there is an implied criticism of the commercial sector in the Minister's statement. I had hoped that the Minister would have gone further with a firm recognition that radio and television, whether government or commercial, represent guaranteed access to an irreplaceable resource- the people's time. This right of access, which is recognised by the conferring of a licence under government auspices, should be seen not just as an opportunity for commercial exploitation but as a form of trusteeship. Where the maximisation of profit is the primary goal, the potential audience is inevitably equated with the market. We believe that 'audience' ought to equal 'community'. Licences and their re-issue should be subject to the signing of a performance contract. The re-issuing of licences should be dependent on adhering to the terms agreed to when the licence is granted. If licensees do not like the terms of the licence or they feel that they cannot fulfil the requirements they should go back to the licensing authority and either seek a variation of the terms of the performance contract or hand the licences back. As the Minister knows, some commercial licence holders, particularly in the television field, have lied like the proverbial troupers about what they would do when they got the licence and once they have got it regard it as being like a Spanish marriage- once they have the licence it will never have to be taken from them. 
There are two other things on which the Minister might comment if he is to reply to this debate. I know that the Special Broadcasting Service was set up as a result of an amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act in December 1977 and that a board was set up under the chairmanship of  Dr Slovsky.  I also know that Neil Hutchinson of the ABC is a member of it. I do not understand where it fits into this matter. I should have thought that the Special Broadcasting Service would have rated a mention. I understand that a Federal experimental transmitter licence is being sought by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Minister might have said something about this matter. I understand that it will produce experimental programs. If so, I hope the Film and Television School will be involved in helping to prepare these experimental programs. It has available studio space and a very high degree of talent. Finally, I hope the Minister will look at a product called 'Instant World', which is a report on telecommunications in Canada by the Canadian Department of Communications in 1971. It seems to me to contain the germs of what we ought to have in a National Information Policy. 
-I rise in support of the honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Holding)  over the question of the motion of censure of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the former Treasurer, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  I believe that the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  were simply not worthy of him, or perhaps, after due reflection, they were worthy of him. I believe that it is an affront to the Parliament to leave unresolved on the Notice Paper a censure motion against two most senior Ministers. The question of confidence is a question which needs to be tested. 
-It is tested not only at the ballot box. If it were to be tested at the ballot box we would have an election not every 18 months, as we have been having in the last five years in Australia, but every week. The point is that between election times the Westminster system suggests that whether a government deserves to govern is, normally speaking, except when a Labor government is in, left to the determination of the lower House of the Parliament. Therefore, if the Government does not like the motion it should use its numbers to remove it. It should not just leave it on the Notice Paper and say: 'Yes, we know that there is more than a suspicion of impropriety, more than a suspicion of reprehensible conduct; what we intend to do is just ignore it and sidestep it'. I believe that there is a very powerful prima facie case and that it is utterly contemptuous of this Parliament to leave that case unresolved. I note that when the right honourable Minister, then the Treasurer, was forced to walk the plank by his loving leader during the course of the Federal election the Prime Minister wrote to him in these words: 
In a quieter non-election atmosphere I believe these matters can be properly resolved to meet this objective in a manner satisfactory to me as Prime Minister and to my commitment to the Australian public and which will enable your return to the Ministry as Treasurer. 
In other words he was saying: 'You give me all the facts and if you satisfy me with all the facts you will be reinstated as Treasurer. ' But the Minister is not the Treasurer. Even the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  knows that. So there was something. That means either that, with the loyalty to his associates that so endears the Prime Minister to us all, the Prime Minister changed his mind or the Prime Minister did to the right honourable Phillip Lynch what the right honourable Phillip Lynch did to  Sir Billy  Snedden at an earlier time of Liberal Party history. We would like to know why that statement that presaged the return of the right honourable member for Flinders as Treasurer was repudiated. 
-I can understand the attitude of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, a saintly old parliamentarian in his last term in the Parliament who wants to go out with his idealism unshattered and untarnished. What he does not want is to realise the kind of bucket that can be dropped in this Parliament by finding out exactly what was in that 30-page document that the right honourable member for Flinders submitted to his leader. We know what the  Australian Financial Review  remarked on 19 December in an editorial headed: 'Sanitised Lynch document is not good enough '. It states:  . . . it is not even the original Lynch document of 30 pages plus 20 pages of attachments sent to the Prime Minister. It is a sanitised version specially prepared by accountants, lawyers and Liberal backbenchers, which excludes the detailed argument of the Lynch case and the fact that  Mr Lynch,  before the lands affairs blew up, set forth in letters to the Prime Minister what he saw as the parameters of ministerial public disclosure. 

 Mr Lynch was prepared to live with his full version being published, but  Mr Fraser  apparently was not. 
We have never had a disclosure in this House. We do not know what was in the document. If this is a responsible parliament, if this Parliament is to adjudicate on the matter of confidence, we ought to see the papers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Did the Prime Minister give assurances to the National Aboriginal Conference in Canberra last week concerning the importance of consultation with the NAC about matters affecting the Aboriginal people? If so, in what way, if any, was the National Aboriginal Conference brought into the discussions with the Premier of Queensland last night? If it was not, why not? 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. This is a government deep in crisis. It is a government split by deep and bitter division. It is a government which has forfeited its integrity and, I believe, its moral authority. It is a government that has failed to serve effectively this country's national interests. It is a government led by a Prime Minister without respect for parliamentary democracy or the conventions of government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  during the course of this controversy, has lost his credibility and his standing. He has chosen authority in favour of respect; he has chosen power instead of leadership; he has chosen vindictiveness instead of restraint and responsibility. In short, I believe this Prime Minister no longer has the respect of his colleagues or the nation at large. 
This is a government in which the shadow of corruption hangs, or has hung, over six of its members. I shall nominate them. Firstly, the Minister for Veterans Affairs,  Mr Garland,  was charged with violation of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in circumstances never satisfactorily resolved. Secondly, the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, was accused by Liberal backbenchers- the accusations are growing in number every day- of violations in connection with the Queensland electoral boundaries. Thirdly, the right honourable Leader of the House - 

 -Mr Speaker, this is a motion of censure involving the Prime Minister and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  It seems highly relevant to me to point out the moral climate in which this Government operates. The right honourable Minister for Primary Industry, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  was involved in a company which had a deficiency of $250,000. 

 -Mr Speaker, the only other Minister I was going to mention was the Minister for Transport - 
-A11 right, I pass over any reference to the Minister's involvement in the purchase of Omega land in his Gippsland electorate and go straight to the Prime Minister's involvement in the Facom - 
-As I said,  Mr Speaker,  I have dealt with the other four Ministers. I intended to speak only of the Prime Minister, whose involvement in the Facom- IBM fracas has been of great concern to the House, and the land dealings of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, which were ably dealt with by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  Members of Parliament and Ministers in particular are obliged to adopt more stringent standards of financial propriety than ordinary members of the public. It may well be that this stringency imposes severe restraints on the civil liberties of people in public life. There is a double standard and if we fall, we fall from a great height. But if we accept the responsiblility of entering public life we have to accept this additional burden. As the case of ex-president Richard Nixon demonstrates clearly, the forefeiture of office is not dependent on criminal conviction; it is enough if a person in public life loses the confidence of those around him through accusations of reprehensible conduct which are substantiated. 
In 1975 there were repeated and savage, even merciless, attacks on several Ministers of the Whitlam Government leading to a widespread, but completely baseless, speculation of personal financial malpractice. There was never any specific documented or corroborated allegation that a Labor Minister received any financial advantage from his activities other than his salary as prescribed. There was never any allegation that any Labor Minister had sought such advantage or that benefits were either sought and received or offered without being sought. The fact that no specific allegations were ever laid against Labor Ministers did not prevent the most sustained, bitter and unyielding barrage of calumny in the history of Australian politics being directed against the Labor Government, leading to the contention by the then Leader of the Opposition, who is now Prime Minister, that unspecified charges surrounding the work of Rex Connor, for example, constituted the reprehensible circumstances which would justify the rejection of Supply and lead to the dismissal of the Whitlam Government on 1 1 November 1975. 
Members of the Government parties cannot adopt a double standard. They cannot crucify a Minister and literally hound him to death without any corroborated charge of personal pecuniary advantage and expect the activities of their own Ministers to go unscathed. The obligations on a Treasurer to avoid even the remote possibility or appearance of conflict is more stringent than that on any other Minister. We have had a nauseating example in the last few years of a double standard being applied. We might say three things of Rex Connor. Firstly, he received no personal economic benefit from what he was doing. Secondly, he was offered no economic advantage because of his position. Thirdly, he did not exploit loopholes in the law. Nevertheless, he was stigmatised and destroyed. 
I put it to the House, with some regret because I have known the right honourable member for Flinders for 25 years, that there has been a double standard.  Mr Lynch  took a very important role, a leading role, in the campaign against Rex Connor. I put it to the House that the three points raised against  Mr Connor  apply even more to the right honourable member for Flinders. He has received a personal benefit accruing because of his role as Treasurer, he has been offered economic advantages because of his position and he has exploited loopholes in the law. Just as it was the desertion of the right honourable member for Flinders that destroyed the leadership of the Liberal Party of the right honourable  Sir Billy  Snedden, as he is now, it is now quite clear that the Prime Minister feels that the right honourable member who helped to put him in the Liberal Party leadership has now outlived his usefulness. He has been squeezed and used up and is about to be thrown away. This censure motion may not be passed today but I suspect that few honourable members in this House believe that the right honourable member for Flinders will still be with us in the Budget session this year. 
Let us consider what was said by the Prime Minister in the course of the election campaign last year. It will be recalled that the right honourable member for Flinders resigned as Treasurer on 1 1 November. In a reply to his letter of resignation, the Prime Minister said: 
In a quieter non-election atmosphere I believe these mattersthat is, the accusation of financial impropriety- can be properly resolved to meet this objective in a manner satisfactory to me as Prime Minister and to my commitment to the Australian public and which will enable your return to the Ministry as Treasurer. I warmly look forward to that time. 
Presumably, he is still looking forward warmly to that time. That warm time has never come. It is about time that the House asked formally- I hope we will find out the answer from succeeding speakers- why those requirements were never met 
I point out that the motion is directed towards the Prime Minister and the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It is those Ministers we want to hear. It will be yet one more disgraceful evasion if somebody other than those two Ministers answers in this debate. It is essential that the case be examined. We face two alternatives. Either the Prime Minister withdrew the terms of his letter of 18 November and decided that they were no longer appropriate or the right honourable member for Flinders failed to meet the Prime Minister's test to resolve the issue in a manner satisfactory to him as Prime Minister. There is no other alternative. The Prime Minister has never taken the people of Australia into his confidence to explain why the right honourable member for Flinders has not been reinstated. I believe we need to know. 
-Because of the unresolved inconsistencies which came out in the evidence put before the Gowans Royal Commission. I shall restate what  Mr Peter  Leake said. We can then compare it with what is said in the document entitled: 'Statement of the Financial Interest of the Right Honourable Phillip R. Lynch, M.P.'- the sanitised account which was regarded as so unsatisfactory by the  Australian Financial Review  and which gave a partial explanation of what he had submitted to the Prime Minister. Honourable members should recall that the original was a 30-page statement with 20 pages of appendices. The right honourable member for Flinders indicated that he was happy to have the full statement released to the public. It has not been released to the public. We have had a condensed, sanitised version. These are the points  Mr Leake  made: Firstly, the question of organising land for Phillip Lynch was first raised in a hotel after a meeting of senior Liberals late in 1972 when defeat for the Liberal Party was just around the corner but when they were still not yet out of office. Secondly,  Mr Leake  was then  Chairman  of the Flinders Electorate Council of the Liberal Party. Thirdly,  Mr Leake  raised the issue of how  Mr Lynch  was going to manage without a ministerial staff. For the first time he would be brought down to the level of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and myself of being a humble back bench member of Parliament. Fourthly,  Mr Leake  said that he asked  Mr Lynch  whether he- that is,  Mr Lynch-  had or could borrow $30,000 so that money could be invested in land and the profits used to employ research staff. Fifthly, in mid- 1973  Mr Cooke,  another associate of  Mr Leake's,  had heard of the Stumpy Gully land available at Balnarring. 
-On the other side of it. Sixthly,  Mr Leake  had negotiated with Grosvenor Nominees to act as a financier. He knew it was connected to  Mr Lynch  but he did not at that stage know the details. Seventhly,  Mr Leake  arranged the purchase of 61 Stumpy Gully blocks in three stages a year apart. To use his own words, he said: 
Within months of buying the first lot of 21 they had been sold again for almost double what we paid. 

 Mr Leake went on to say that the resale took place so quickly that the agreement with Grosvenor Nominees had not even been signed. As he said, 'within months of buying, the first lot of 21 blocks had been sold for almost double what we paid '.  Mr Leake  went on to say: 
Nevertheless we were fair. We paid him half the profit. 

 Mr Leake was obviously referring to  Mr Lynch. 
-The question of tax avoidance schemes has come up. I thank the honourable member for his helpful interjection. 
-I believe that the question of tax evasion or tax avoidance in this case is absolutely relevant. It is clear that when a Minister is responsible, as the Treasurer was at that time, for raising revenue it is his duty to set an example. 

 -The Australian Financial Review stated: 
The Lynch children certainly paid tax on the income they derived from the profits of the land deal mentioned above. Such tax would have been at a higher marginal rate if it had been paid through  Mr Lynch  's own income flow . . . 
Such income splitting arrangements are legal and are widespread among certain income groups. 
But a Treasurer who engages in such tax avoidance exercises invites nothing but cynicism when he imposes further tax burdens on the rest of the community. 
I believe that a double standard has been in operation. 
Motion (by  Mr Young)  put: 
That the honourable member for Lalor be granted an extension of time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise pursuant to Standing Order 66 and claim that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  misquoted or misunderstood a material part of my speech. He said twice - 
-It is 66the honourable member is thinking of something else. The Leader of the House said twice that I claimed to have raised the Fraser-Lynch affair as 'a matter of revenge'. The point I made which he has clearly misunderstood was that there ought not be the application of a double standard. I said if it had been appropriate in 1975 to attack Labor Ministers even where no personal financial advantage had been gained or sought there could be no objection to a full investigation of circumstances which had led to personal financial advantage being gained by Ministers ex officio. This is not a matter of 'revenge', as the Leader of the House puts it; it is a demand that we do not employ a double standard in judging these matters. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and desire to make a personal explanation. 
I express my concern that, in the recent industrial dispute over the export of live sheep and goats to the Middle East, the issue of the humane treatment of animals was so completely ignored. Our national preoccupation with narrow economic interests, cash in hand, is illustrated very clearly by our lack of interest in the cruelty implicit in the live animal export trade. I draw attention to a letter which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 18 April. I identify myself with it completely. It reads: 
It's time we questioned the morality of the export of live sheep ( and goats) to the Middle East 
Farmers and unionists are understandably silent on one of the reasons why so many millions of live animals are exported. Any trade worth $300 million could overcome refrigeration and transportation problems. 
Australians either don't know, or choose to ignore, the fact that Moslem rituals specify that animals should be fully conscious at the time of slaughter. 
Your editorial  ('The Age',  12/4) gives us a clue to the farmers' demands for unrestricted trade. These sheep 'are mostly cast-offs from the wool clip worth only a few dollars and sometimes not worth sending to slaughter. But the Middle East is paying $ 1 5 to $30 per head, ' 
Farmers know the substantial economic losses caused by the stress of transportation especially over long distances. Injuries, deaths and shrinkage are inevitable. No farmer would choose to export prime-quality lamb or mutton in this way. Obviously it is a very lucrative method of disposing of animals which can no longer be exploited. 
In January 1 977, the ABC  Country Hour  reported that private veterinary surgeons had perfected a conveyor-belt, oneminute spaying operation for aged merino ewes which would then be exported live. No need to worry about bans on the export of these sheep once they have been spayed. 
In the late 1 9th and early 20th centuries, English livestock owners shipped their worn-out and aged horses to Belgium for slaughter. This trade was justified then by the same arguments which Australian farmers are using in 1978. 
It is the duty of the Federal Government, the livestock producers and the trade union movement to stop this deplorable trade. Australia's long-term economic advantage lies in developing carcase export. Our moral advantage lies in realising that increasing contempt for lower forms of life may be leading us, especially in an agnostic age, to a contempt for man himself. 
I believe that the treatment of animals may well be the most accurate single indicator of our national capacity for compassion. The vast public indifference to the sufferings of animals in the live export trade to the Middle East suggests that we would deserve to rank very low on a compassion index. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) Does the Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1974 exclude Merchant Navy personnel who were prisoners of war from eligibility for those medical, surgical and paramedical benefits specifically granted to a 'Member of the Forces' as defined in the Repatriation Act 1973. 
Were representations made in 1976 to the then Minister by Captain J. Fowles and Captain C. L. Evans to amend the Act to grant these benefits to merchant seamen who were prisoners of war. 
3 ) What action has the Government taken, or does it propose to take, to grant the desired concession. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) Why was the Order by the Governor-General dated 1 3 February 1978 and published in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 14 February 1978, calling out the Defence Forces following the bomb attack at the Sydney Hilton, expressed to be in force without limitation as to time. 
Why was the Order expressed to cover areas other than New South Wales. 
Were the terms of the Order broad enough to permit intervention by Defence Forces into domestic political situations such as industrial disputes. 
-I could say in response to the Minister - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, there are two basic objections - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put. 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
-There are two basic objections to the proposition put forward in the ministerial statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony). 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-In April 1977  President  Carter described the need to work out new energy policies as 'the moral equivalent of war'. It is clear that the Australian Government has absolutely refused to face up to the need to establish a national energy policy. The Government has failed to do this and has put all its energy eggs in the uranium producers' baskets. There are two basic objections to this. The first is that the apparent availability and the alleged ease of exploitation of uranium is a major disincentive in Australia to the development of solar, tidal, wind and other nonpolluting, non-exhaustible energy sources, leading to almost indefinite deferment of and a low priority for developing alternative energy sources. These would inevitably be much higher if there was no nuclear fuel to exploit. There is a challenge facing many other countries. It is apparently felt that because Australia has ample reserves of uranium, there is no need to develop an energy policy here very seriously. 
The second objection is that the apparent availability of abundant nuclear fuel is a major disincentive to developing a national energy policy, recognising the need for energy conservation and implementing, for example, the policies recommended by the American Physical Society in a very important book- a basic book-  The Efficient Use of Energy,  which was published in 1975, especially the concept of 'energy analysis' and what they call' second law efficiency'. 
In  The Efficient Use of Energy  the American Physical Society proposes a valuable intellectual tool, energy analysis, that has not been used enough in Australia. The theory of 'energy analysis' is based on the first and second laws of thermodynamics, which were worked out independently between 1840 and 1850 by Joule, Mayer and Clausius and are still unchallenged. Basically, the American Physical Society proposes that we ought to apply a different test of efficiency, that is relative efficiency according not to the first law of thermodynamics but to the second. 'First-law efficiency' is defined, using the Greek letter 'eta' to represent energy, as: desired energy transfer achieved by system 71 energy input to the device or system 
Second-law efficiency is denned, using the Greek letter ' epsilon ' to represent energy , as: heat or work usefully transferred maximum possible heat or work transferred 
This is not an academic abstraction; it is a principle absolutely basic to the economic use of energy because in all the talk we have heard in this Parliament recently on the subject of energy we have never heard any consideration about the efficient use of energy, lt seems to be taken for granted that energy use will continue to rise at an exponential rate, when it is quite clear, as  President  Carter and others have pointed out, that if we only put more emphasis on energy conservation, it would be possible to make the energy dollar go much further. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 10 a.m. 
It is a complete misuse of the legislative process to force the passage of a Bill through a legislature in an unsatisfactory form and then announce that the deficiencies of the Bill can be cured administratively either by regulation or by delaying its proclamation- under clause 2 of this Bill- or by segmenting its applicability State by State. I draw the attention of the Committee to the text of the letter which the honourable R. J. Hamer, Premier of Victoria, sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It seems to me that what he is suggesting is eminently reasonable and not inconsistent with what my friend, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  has said. I ask honourable members to remember that the Fraser Federal Government has claimed to follow a 'States righteous' position but which in practice has been very much centralist.  Mr Hamer  writes:  . . in response to a specific request on your part, on 2 1 September 1 977,I nominated the Minister for Conservation in Victoria as the State Government contact point for information relating to the development of uniform codes of practice relating to uranium mining in Australia. Unfortunately, the Bill in question was prepared and presented to the States as a virtual fait accompli without any recourse to the State Minister nominated for that purpose. 

 Mr Hamer goes on to refer to a later clause, clause 1 1. But his remarks obviously are related to clause 2 in this legislation because they refer to the question of whether the Bill should be proclaimed. The Premier states: 
In my view, this provision - 
That is clause 11 -  . . cannot be said to provide for more than token consultation with, and input by the States. It certainly does not qualify as a measure of co-operation and, in effect, says that the States must either implement Commonwealth policy or be subjected to Commonwealth legislation in what I believe to be clearly State matters. 
I leave out a paragraph of the letter but I will be happy to table the whole letter at a later stage.  Mr Hamer  continues: 
I am particularly perturbed that, in the event of any challenge, Victoria may be forced to participate because such fundamental principles concerning future StateCommonwealth relations are at issue. 
The scheme envisaged by the Bill would appear to be designed to force the States to adopt a Commonwealth code in areas which are primarily the States' responsibility. But in my view the scheme will be invalid because, under the Bill, the code cannot be limited to matters within the legislative power of the Commonwealth. On the contrary it is to deal generally with standards, practices and procedures with respect to nuclear activities which, as such, are outside Commonwealth legislative power. The power to make regulations which is conferred on the Governor-General is as wide as the matters which may be contained in a code and, that being so, the power is too wide and not within constitutional limits. The attempt in clause 12 to bring the matters dealt with by the Bill within the ambit of Commonwealth power would, in my view, be ineffective. I am concerned at the possible future implications, which could be far-reaching in many other fields, if the attempt to extend Commonwealth jurisdiction by such indirect means into areas for which it has no specific head of power were to be seen as a precedent. 
He then goes on to say: 
It may be, that uniform Commonwealth-State legislation could represent an acceptable, constitutionally correct and proper alternative approach to this matter. 
Although the Premier of Victoria is not a political ally of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  or myself, nevertheless we understand his point of view. He goes on to say: 
To expedite consideration I propose that State and Commonwealth officials should meet to explore the question of an alternative approach which constitutionally would be fully acceptable to State Governments in respect of State matters, and which would facilitate effective co-operative machinery to ensure the adequate maintenance of uniformly prepared and implemented codes. 
I look forward to your comments on these issues as a matter of urgency and would add that I am advising the other State Premiers of the terms of my letter to you. 
Yours sincerely, 
R.J. HAMER, 
Premier 
One might ask this Committee: What is the advantage of trying to force this legislation through the Parliament and then going through an infinite period during which the GovernorGeneral is asked not to proclaim it? Where is the time advantage in that course of action? Alternatively, we might follow the procedure of passing the Bill, having it assented to by the GovernorGeneral, having it proclaimed and then finding that we are facing a constitutional challenge in the High Court of Australia which might delay the whole procedure for some months. 
It seems to me that there would be very few members on either side of the House who would regard the Bill as satisfactory in its present form. Instead of having this fail-safe clause, which provides that parts of the measure can be proclaimed at some distant time, why not engage in consultation with all six States now as a matter of urgency, precisely as the Acting Premier of South Australia and the Premier of Victoria have suggested? I believe this is a badly constructed Bill and that there are serious implications in it in that excessive power is proposed to be exercised on what is probably not a legitimate constitutional base. I would have thought that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  as a distinguished lawyer, would be fully aware of that point. I hope that he will take into consideration and agree that this may be an appropriate time to report progress to allow the Government to enter into consultation with the States. 
asked the Minister for Home 
Affairs, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978: 
Further to the answer to question No. 331  (Hansard,  5 April 1978), concerning the hanging of New Guinean indigenes in 1943-44 by Australian military courts, will he ascertain and advise the whereabouts of (a) the ANGAU War Diary, legal section dealing with the 1943 executions, 
the ANGAU file 506/ 1/4 relating to wartime trials and 
the files of  Sir William  Webb, wartime Atrocities Commissioner, relating to executions. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has reported recently that, of 15 countries with comparable economies, Australia has the highest proportion of people under 25 years of age competing for jobs in the work force and the lowest proportion undergoing education? Is it a fact that the OECD reported that Australia had 620 of every 1,000 people under 25 years competing for jobs compared to 540 out of a 1 ,000 in the United States of America, 530 in the United Kingdom and 450 in Japan? Would he agree that these figures indicate that Australia employs too high a proportion - 
-The war-time hanging by the Australian Army administration in 1943 and 1944 of at least 34 natives of New Guinea has been the best kept and the darkest secret in modern Australian history. I have known about the mass hangings since about 1960 when the late  Dr Alfred  Cordon first told me about them, but the documents detailing the trials of the natives have now been destroyed. I referred to the hangings in my book  The Penalty is Death  in 1968 but at that stage I knew of only 16 hangings. In his answer to my question on notice No. 879 the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  suggests that the relevant documents have been culled, lost, burnt, are incomplete, or otherwise destroyed. The whole affair is in danger of falling into a collective national memory hole. Were the documents systematically removed, perhaps years ago, to protect the reputations of people who have held high judicial office in Australia but who were involved in incidents they later wanted to forget? 

 Dr Hank Nelson of the Department of Pacific and South-east Asian History at the Australian National University has done some independent work on the hangings. He has accounted for at least 34. Many people were charged with murder, others with treason. All were alleged to have been involved in assisting Japanese troops in incidents which led to the deaths of Australians, some of them civilians. Several books, including volumes of the  Australian Official War History, Hell and High Fever  and  Itambu  by  Mr Justice  Selby, refer to the Japanese atrocities but there is absolutely no reference to the trials and executions of the 34 New Guineans. Twenty-two of them were hanged on two successive days at Higaturu in September 1 943, five on one day and 1 7 on the next. 
The New Guineans all lived in a small area to the east of the Owen Stanley Ranges, near the point of cultural 'interface' where territory was successively occupied by Germans, Australians and Japanese. If there was any lesson that these people and their families must have learned, it was that foreigners- whether German, Australian or Japanese- wearing a uniform and an air of authority were in a position to enforce their wishes and had to be obeyed without question. Treason is a highly conceptual crime involving an understanding of legal obligations to the Australian State or the British Crown, and the significance of breaching them. In the first batch of trials the sentences were referred to and apparently confirmed by the General Officer Commanding the 1st Australian Army, LieutenantGeneral  Sir Edmund  Herring, later Chief Justice of Victoria, in his capacity as Administrator of the Australia-New Guinea Administration Unit. The trials and sentences were never referred to the Australian Government for confirmation. 
On 20 April 1945 the Reverend  Dr John  W. Burton, Secretary-General of the Methodist Overseas Missions, wrote to the then Prime Minister, the Right Honourable John Curtin, advising that he was informed that 28 New Guineans had already been hanged by the Army and that 50 or 60 more were under sentence of death. John Curtin ordered an immediate investigation and Cabinet on 4 June 1945 ordered that all sentences of hanging and whipping be commuted. After some initial hesitation, Lieutenant-General V. A. H. Sturdee, the General Officer Commanding 1st Army, complied. 
There is so much that we do not know about the trials and executions and presumably never will know. It is ironic that the executions- which outnumber the hangings of war criminals at Nuremberg, eleven, and Tokyo, seven- should have occurred at precisely the time that the Australian Press was promoting the idea of the Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels. If the idea behind the hangings was to deter potential collaborators, why were they not publicised? But of the trials themselves these questions need examination. First, who defended the New Guineans or were they undefended? Secondly, did they understand the nature of the offences they were charged with? Thirdly, how was the prosecution evidence evaluated or corroborated? Fourthly, who reviewed the sentences? Fifthly, was there a right of appeal? Sixthly, why were the sentences not referred to Canberra? Seventhly, was the Australian law of treason regarded as appropriate for unsophisticated indigenes? Eighthly, why have virtually all the records disappeared? Ninthly, why has the incident gone unrecorded by historians and other writers of the period? 
The matter needs further investigation and it indicates the great importance of maintaining the security and integrity of our national archives. 
-Further to my question to the Prime Minister last Friday concerning the recent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development about the involvement of young people in the work force, I ask: Is it a fact that there are 140,000 unemployed people in Australia under the age of 25 years? Is it a fact, as is stated in the OECD report, that if Australia had the same proportion of young people involved in full-time education as Japan, 150,000 more people would be involved? Is it a fact that if Australia had the same proportion of young people involved in full-time education as the United Sates that half a million more young people would be involved? 
I endorse George Orwell's dictum that 'the falsification of history is the greatest of all crimes because it debases the meaning of all human experience'. I agree with Lord Acton that truth is ill served when 'the strong man with the dagger is followed by the weaker man with the sponge'. The destruction of our history is an act of selfmutilation. If we accept it without protest it reduces us to the status of moral pygmies. The question whether we should suppress our history or recognise it frankly is far too important to be treated as a partisan political issue. 
Selective omission and suppression raise disturbing questions. If we accept the precedent, how far do we go? Should we destroy the records of the 'black drive ' against the Tasmanian Aborigines? Should we suppress the records of shooting and poisoning of Aborigines in Western Australia in the nineteenth century? Should we ask Manning Clark to tone down his  History of Australia?  We have shown hypersensitivity about revealing our past. The British have released their records of the  S.S. Duneera  incident, in which they figure much worse than we do, but we have not. The Japanese are interested in the Cowra incident in August 1944 when 234 Japanese prisoners of war were killed in a breakout and want to make a film about it. We prefer to keep the subject buried. 
What manner of people are we? Would we rather listen to comforting or evasive lies about our past or are we prepared to face the unpalatable truths? 
Many Australians, I suspect, prefer a Pollyanna history in which nothing violent or indefensible ever happened. Brigadier  Sir William  Hall calls the missing files on the New Guinea executions 'useless and unnecessary information'. There were many in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union who thought that Khruschev's speech at the 20th Congress in 1956 about Stalin's rule contained 'useless and unnecessary information'. A new generation of Germans who have grown up with a sanitised history of their nation now see Hitler as a benign and creative figure because their heads have not been burdened with 'useless and unnecessary information' about the Nazi era. 
I am not, of course, attempting to compare the actions of those hanged in New Guinea with the crimes of Stalin and Hitler. We need to keep a sense of proportionality. But it might also be pointed out that eleven of Hitler's closest associates were hanged at Nuremburg after long trials, held in public before a highly qualified panel of judges, with expert translation facilities, in which the accused were ably defended by lawyers. In New Guinea, to take a single incident, Embogi and 21 of his followers of the Orakaiva people were hanged at Higaturu after trials of unknown length, held in unknown conditions before a tribunal with unknown qualifications, with unknown translation facilities, in which the accused may or may not have been represented by counsel. It may be that the records, if found, would prove Embogi to have been a major war criminal ranking with the major Nazis. But we do not have any records at all. 

 Sir William Webb, formerly Chief Justice of Queensland and later a justice of the High Court of Australia, was appointed as Australia's Atrocities Commissioner. He investigated the circumstances in which the Japanese killed Australian civilians who were handed over to them, it is widely believed, by New Guineans. I understand that his report covered atrocities leading to the Australian trials of New Guineans. Where is the Webb report on these trials now? Some thoughtful person- or persons- has removed every copy of the relevant material. It is worth noting that, as presiding judge of the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal which handed down seven death sentences,  Sir William  Webb is understood to have voted consistently against the death penalty in all cases. It was an open secret. I do not know whether he did this on his own volition or acted on the instructions of the Australian Government. 
Richard Nixon was forced from office in 1974 because he attempted to falsify the evidence about Watergate by selective omission and suppression of evidence. Were the United States people and Congress wrong to take such a serious view of his tampering with 1 8 minutes of taped evidence? It would not have caused much of a stir in Australia. If Nixon had been an Australian politician any local critic would have been accused of 'political stirring' and told that the tapes contained only 'useless and unnecessary information'. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Telecom Australia is attempting to provide a service called r--r. vision' which would enable discussions, negotiations or small meetings to take place by means of a television and telephone link. 
If so, during his consideration of this proposal did he receive any advice as to whether the holding of company board meetings by 'Confravision' would legally satisfy the quorum provisions required by the constitutions or articles of association of companies registered under the Companies Acts of the various States. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Are information sector employment statistics and national accounting data for Australia being prepared in accordance with the request of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's Directorate of Science, Technology and Industry for its projects on Economic Analysis of Economic Activities; if not, why not. 
-As the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  remarked, these are essentially three noncontentious machinery Bills. Nevertheless, they give the House the opportunity to discuss some aspects of the radio and television industry- that is to say, the commercial industry- which depends on licensing. The whole concept of licensing involves regulation by a licensing authority. Self-regulation, which some in the industry have argued for, could apply only in the absence of a licensing procedure; that is, if the ability to transmit was determined only by market forces. 
There are two basis premises underlying the Government regulation of commercial television. The major premise is that the Government has the right to grant commercial media licences which confer economic privileges on licence holders and forbid non-licensees from transmitting alternative programs and seeking advertising revenue. The minor premise is that the granting of licences in order to limit competition imposes duties on the licence holders and that the licensing authority must have the right to regulate the performance of licensees and to withdraw licences if performance is judged to be unsatisfactory. Commercial television and radio accept the major premise- that is, that licensees are protected from competition from nonlicensees but they reject the minor premise. I believe that the minor premise is an inevitable consequence of the major premise that licensing must involve regulation and the setting of minimum standards just as licensing car drivers necessarily involves regulation of their performance. If we were to accept self-regulation, that is, the regulating of commercial television and radio by market forces alone, it would follow logically that there should be no government protection of licensees by forbidding non-licensees to set up their own channels. Commercial television and radio cannot have it both ways. If they do not accept the minor premise then the major premise ought to have been abolished, giving the opportunity for political parties, trade unions, churches, ethnic minorities, universities and commercial interests to set up their own low-cost television and radio channels and aim at a particular segment of the potential audience. This is the logical extension of self-regulation, as applied to the major premise. 
I have thought for a long time that there was a strong case in Australia for a root and branch approach to licensing, that we ought to get away from the present system, with which the Bills before the House merely tinker, and set up a different kind of licensing procedure. I have always been attracted to the British idea of an independent broadcasting authority. I would like to see our Broadcasting and Television Act amended to provide for an independent broadcasting authority along the lines of the United Kingdom Independent Broadcasting Authority. Such an IBA, after providing financial compensation on just terms to the previous owners, would acquire the licences, transmitting plant and equipment of already existing commercial radio and television stations. It would then operate commercial radio and television stations so as to increase the possibility of a greater range of audience choices, instead of merely as a profitable mode of exploitation. The problem, is illustrated where six or seven commercial radio stations are essentially aiming for a share of the same market. Pop music fanatics are themselves short-changed because, instead of having the complete range of commercial radio aimed at the pop market available, they really have to play roulette with their tuning dial, switching from one station to the other to find out what is being offered. 
As we all know, there is not much rationalisationfor example in Sydney and Melbourneabout the presentation of news. Instead of, for instance, news programs being co-ordinated so that those programs are staggered in some way, if one wants to have a choice of channel 7 or 9 news one has to play a kind of roulette, twisting the dial from one channel to another. That is an unsatisfactory situation, where channels are competing for exactly the same market at the same time and the person who is an avid news fan will miss a good deal. 
An Australian IBA would not in my view, provide programs itself. It would invite program contractors, who could well include the present radio and television managements, as well as independent packagers such as Crawfords, and recording or film distributors, to submit competitive tenders for the right to supply programs as required. The IBA would then pay for the programs supplied from advertising revenue, supplemented where necessary, in order to raise standards, from Consolidated Revenue. The IBA would, subject to existing legislation, sell advertising time to advertisers. There would be spot advertising rather than sponsored programs. 
The reason I suggest this is that that system would then break the nexus between advertisers, station management and program content. This is precisely the point that was raised by the honourable member for Bowman. Station management says: 'Why put on programs for children? The ratings will not merit it. ' The ratings, of course, are what determine whether advertisers will be attracted or not. Unfortunately, very often commercial radio and television have not really been concerned with development or with stimulation. They have been much preoccupied with market considerations. If the likely immediate return from the market is seen as low, managements are not interested in providing programs in that area. It would, in fact, end the domination of television of radio and television programming policies by ratings, which has led commercial television and radio to provide similar programs at the same time in order to compete for ratings, advertising revenue and potential profitability. News services and sporting events, instead of being staggered, have tended to be on at the same time. The buying price of programs should be related to quality and the actual production cost, rather than the direct economic value of the program to advertisers. 
An independent broadcasting authority would help to stimulate innovation and experimentation, which commercial radio and television have signally failed to do. Also it would help to provide quality services in neglected areas such as children's and educational programs, because managements would not all the time have to be looking over their shoulders at advertising revenue and saying: 'We dare not put on quality programs because the advertisers would punish us.' Having an IBA would permit specialisation of television channels or radio stations, as required, in order to serve the needs of sections of the audience- information services, education services and entertainment services. This point has been taken up in part, of course, by the recent ministerial statement on public broadcasting. There ought to be a national debate in which we would try to resolve the conflict between profitability and responsibility in media control. An IBA would provide far greater flexibility and creative potential for people working in commercial television and radio, even at management level, because it would permit diversity and long-range planning without being limited by fears about rating and economic profitability. 
To summarise, the introduction of an independent broadcasting authority would have three major effects: Firstly, it would end the domination by ratings, which make commercial television and radio apprehensive about experimentation, because they fear losing habitual viewers to more conventional commercial programs on other channels. It would end competition for programs between channels, which forces up the purchasing price. Secondly, it would relieve commercial managements of the problems of trying to maximise profits at the same time as they attempt to meet the program requirements laid down by the Government. One might say that an IBA solution would save them a great deal of that anxiety of which the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations tells us so often, about resolving a problem which they have found impossible to deal with in the past 22 years. I know the sympathy of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  goes out to them as well. Thirdly, it would restore the idea that television and radio, whether commercial or government, represent guaranteed access to an irreplaceable resource, the people's time. This right of access should be seen not just as an opportunity for commercial exploitation, but as a form of trusteeship. Where the maximisation of profit is the primary goal, the potential audience is inevitably equated with the market. If that is so, as FACTS very reasonably points out, commercial television must respond to market forces. But that seems more likely to lead to a media version of Gresham's Law, whereby bad programs drive out the good. We ought to think of the audience as being equivalent with the community and recognise that every majority is made up of groups which are themselves minoritiesyoung women, old women, girls, young men, old men, boys, Anglicans, Catholics, agnostics, rich, middle income, poor, under-educated and over-educated. 
-The collective IQ of the Parliament has just sagged several points by the honourable member's entry. If we assume that an independent broadcasting authority is not to be established, that the conventional form of licensing radio and commercial television channels is to continue, I believe that the issuing or reissuing of licences should depend on adherence to a performance contract. Since 1956 commercial television licences have been regarded as an inalienable capital asset. The tribunal, formerly the old Broadcasting Control Board, seemed to operate on the principle once a licensee always a licensee, but I believe that television and radio licences should not be regarded as a form of Spanish marriage- incapable of being changed. 
Previously the Board always took the indulgent view that the undertakings given by successful licence applicants, in 1956 for example, were always unrealistically high and that they should not be held to account for their failure to meet the specifications that they volunteered to undertake. Licensees ought to sign a performance contract when licences are re-issued, and if changing circumstances make adherence to the contract too difficult they should apply to the licensing authority for a variation. 
The concentration of media control in Australia is grossly excessive. In the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Europe, Press, television and radio are natural enemies. They are rivals in the highly competitive media field. That is a healthier situation. Each medium is only too happy to expose the inadequacies of the other. However, in Australia commercial television and radio are virtually free of serious or sustained newspaper criticism and there is very little critical input from outside. There are no serious Australian television or radio journals, such as  The Listener  in the United Kingdom or the excellent  The Listener  in New Zealand. Magazines such as  TV Week  and  TV Times  are essentially promotional ' fan mags '. 
As many politicians could testify, news reportage seems to involve 'selective trivialisation' in which major policies are often ignored and minor matters are sometimes given extensive coverage. Media proprietors in thos country have been able to exercise an enormous influence without serious accountability to anyone. This can have particularly serious political consequences. I can think of two examples of this occurring recently. One concerned  Sir John  Gorton's deposition from the Prime Ministership in March 1971. There was a short, highly concentrated and effectively co-ordinated series of television programs, editorials and feature articles leading up to the day of the Liberal Party meeting which led to Gorton's defenestration. John Gorton was refused time to reply in his own defence. The Australian Broadcasting Commission also refused him time on the ground that giving him time would mean an abandonment of neutrality on its part. The Australian Prime Minister of the day was literally silenced. I regard that as absolutely appalling. 
Another example concerns the view taken by the media proprietors in October and November 1975 that the Khemlani affair and the dismissal of  Mr Rex  Connor from the Whitlam Ministry constituted the reprehensible circumstances which the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said would be the sole justification for using his Senate majority to reject Supply. In the 1960s there were several examples within my own experience of influence or pressure from proprietors and /or management to delete television material. This suggests that such pressure was fairly common at that time and may still be. We ought to be facing up to the need to work towards severance of the ownership of Press, radio and television to put our media on exactly the same footing as the media in the United Kingdom and the United States. 
One reason management is apprehensive about experimenting in programming is that the cost of programming is too high. I can make a constructive suggestion here which I hope the Minister for Post and Telecommunications will adopt with bulging squeals. The competitive bidding for overseas programs results in individual stations forcing up the price of these programs far beyond what would appear to be a fair and reasonable cost. The directing of funds towards purchasing overseas programs has meant that commercial investment in local productions has been restricted to some degree. Governments should assist local production by subsidy where appropriate and by enabling foreign products to be obtained more cheaply. 
I believe that a 'single buying agency' should be set up, as was recommended in the 1973 report of the Tariff Board concerning motion picture films and television programs, with the exclusive authority to buy exhibition rights for British and foreign films, series and specials for Australian television. The proposal is not unlike the buying ring system which once operated in commercial television but which broke down about 1962. Commercial channels and the Australian Broadcasting Commission would nominate to the 'single buying agency' the programs for the season that they were interested in buying for the season. The 'single buying agency' would then acquire such programs from the distributors. Once the programs had been bought overseas the 'single buying agency' would then conduct a domestic auction in Australia and the highest bidder would acquire the Australian domestic rights from the agency. The margin between the domestic auction price and the price paid by the 'single buying agency', plus reasonable expenses, would be paid to a trust fund administered by, for example, the Australian Film Commission which would assist in financing Australian productions. 
Evidence given before the Tariff Board indicated that Australia was paying virtually as much for U.S. television programs as the United Kingdom and Canada, which are both far bigger markets. In West Germany, I concede, the problems of dubbing and sub-titling must add to the costs. But my recollection of the 1973 Tariff Board inquiry was that the enormous West German television market, which is probably the third or fourth biggest and richest market in the world, was paying no more for a half-hour program than we were paying in Australia. The reason why we are paying so much is that channel X is competing against channels A, B and C and forcing up the price. If we had a 'single buying agency' to acquire the programs and then sell them here by domestic auction, the amount received at auction over the initial purchase price could go into a domestic production fund. The commercial channels would be paying no more than they would be paying in New York or London, but it would mean that the extra money they were prepared to pay for the program abroad would not be leaving Australia. They would still have competition, if competition was what they were really looking for. 
I believe that there has been a failure of nerve in much of Australian commercial television and radio management. In particular, there has been a preference to choose sedative programs rather than stimulating programs. Much of the commercial media control seems to have worked on the premise that successful programming depends on rejecting the unknown and adventurous and reinforcing the known and predictable, especially in a series. Compared with the programs of the United States and the United Kingdom, Austraiian series such as  Homicide, Number 96  and the never to be forgotten  PickaBox  have had excessively long runs. Commercial managements believe that programming should be competitive rather than complementary: as a result three commercial channels compete with each other commercially for the same audience rather than attempting to serve particular sections of the audience more effectively. 
Children are the key to family viewing. If the children can be secured for a particular program -for example,  Blankety Blanks  on Channel 0 rather than the ABC news- this may set a family's viewing pattern all night unless the parents are very strong willed. Children's television has been equated with the children's market rather than with the emotional and intellectual stimulation or enlargement of children. Many Australians feel uneasy about asserting their national identity except in a self-mocking way, which is sometimes called the 'ocker image'. We are conscious of our minority position in the Englishspeaking world and that our population of 14 million is only four per cent of that of the richest film and television market in the world. The Minister has a position of enormous power and influence. I believe that he ought to use that influence and try to effect a root and crop reform of Australian commercial media control. 
-The West Gate Bridge fiasco is a horrifying example of the failure of governments composed of nonspecialists to understand and adequately supervise projects involving complex technical matters. The original bridge design by Freeman, Fox and Partners proved tragically inadequate in October 1970 when the collapse of the span between piers 10 and 1 1 caused 35 deaths. Following the adverse report of the Royal Commission on the West Gate Bridge,  Dr W.  A. Fairhurst, C.B.E., an eminent Scottish bridge engineer was brought in as Director of Engineering. He produced an essentially conservative new design with the assistance of  Mr Harold  Richards and  Dr George  Deutsch. This involved building four additional piers and four additional cables fixed to each of two central towers. This was designed to reduce the greatest areas of stress in the side spans between piers 10-11 and 14-15. 
However, on 22 December 1971, without consulting Fairhurst, the Technical Committee of the West Gate Bridge Authority rejected Fairhurst 's plan and substituted an alternative hypothesis by Professor Karlheinz Roik and  Mr Hans  Wolfram, less than 24 hours after  Mr Wolfram's  return from an overseas trip. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short table headed 'Comparison of the Plans', setting out the differences between the Freeman Fox design, the Fairhurst-Richards-Deutsch plan and the Wolfram-Roik scheme. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="109131197805114_16_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805114_17_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Seven years and four months later, the Bridge is still not complete. Construction costs have escalated from an estimated $42m to $150m by March 1978, and a possible total of $ 175m by 1979 when it is hoped that the Bridge will open. These figures do not include interest charges which amount to more than $10m per annum. The Wolfram-Roik design was a catastrophic blunder which has added about $80m in cost, not counting additional interest charges, and four, perhaps five, years delay in opening the bridge. 
I examined the files of the Authority and found that: 
No technical documentation was submitted in support of the hasty decision to abandon the Fairhurst scheme and adopt the Wolfram-Roik proposal. In fact, at the time of the change there was no detailed plan actually in existence; it was merely an untested hypothesis. 
No reasons for the change were provided by the Technical Committee. 

 Dr Fairhurst, as Director of Engineering, was not consulted. 
The Authority  Chairman, Mr Oscar  Meyer, claimed in the Melbourne  Herald  on 30 July 1 977 that Fairhurst 's plan was rejected because it was estimated to cost more than the Wolfram-Roik scheme. However the minutes of the 19th Report of the Directorate of Engineering, a document dated 20 January 1972, estimated that the Fairhurst scheme would cost an extra $1.5m and the Wolfram-Roik plan an extra $2m, that is $500,000 more than the Fairhurst scheme. 
To lay opinion it might appear that the Fairhurst scheme would cost more because it meant erecting 4 extra piers and 8 extra cables. However, these costs were far outweighed by the unanticipated extra labor cost of the WolframRoik plan. Fairhurst 's scheme provided for direct external support at the two greatest areas of stress, that is, between piers 10-11 and piers 14-15. The Wolfram-Roik scheme provided that these two areas should not have direct external support, but should depend on a highly sophisticated, intricate and expensive stiffening by welding and rivetting inside the box girders. This substituted additional horizontal strengthening at enormous labour cost for the simple and relatively cheap external support of piers and cables. In addition, a half inch metal 'battle deck'- it is like an aircraft carrier's deck- would replace a concrete deck. 
Again, to lay opinion it might seem that the greatest stress point in the bridge would be in the middle of the long central span. Once more, lay opinion would be wrong. As the two volumes of diagrams produced by the firm of Hardcastle and Richards Pty Ltd, consulting engineers of Melbourne, demonstrated- especially the one labelled 71/107/15-the 'bending moments' of the central span amounts to minus 55,000 tons/ feet. Between piers 10-1 1 and 14-15 the figure is minus 120,000 tons/feet on each side. The West Gate Bridge Authority was, at all relevant times, under the chairmanship of  Mr Oscar  Meyer, O.B.E.,  Chairman  of Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd and a Commissioner of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The  Deputy Chairman  was  Mr B.  J., now  Sir Bernard,  Callinan, C.B.E., D.S.O., M.C.,  Chairman  and Managing Director of Gutteridge Haskins and Davey Pty Ltd, Consulting Engineers, a Commissioner of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, a Commissioner of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and a Director of BP Australia Ltd. Below the West Gate Bridge Board was a Technical Committee of three Board members comprising  Sir Bernard  Callinan as  Chairman, Mr Meyer  and  Mr J.  R. Duggan of Colonial Gas Holdings Ltd. 
Below the Technical Committee in 1971-72 was a three man Directorate of Engineering. At the relevant time in 1971  Dr W.  A. Fairhurst was the Director of Engineering,  Mr Hans  Wolfram was  Deputy  Director, and the third member was 

 Mr Harold Richards of Hardcastle and Richards Pty Ltd, consulting engineers.  Mr Wolfram  was then, and still is, a Director of Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey,  Sir Bernard  Callinan 's firm. Richards was a strong supporter of Fairhurst and his scheme. Wolfram, as soon appeared, was a secret opponent. 
In September 1971 Fairhurst 's scheme was adopted by the West Gate Bridge Board after lengthy scrutiny by the Technical Committee. Despite that,  Sir Bernard  Callinan was quoted in the  Age  of 11 September 1971 as saying, with uncanny foresight, that 'the general appearance of the bridge would not change, but there would be many internal modifications '-in other words exactly the reverse of the Fairhurst scheme.  Mr Wolfram  was then sent abroad, ostensibly to recruit new contractors and technicians to carry out the Fairhurst scheme, but in reality to sabotage it. Fairhurst resigned in disgust and  Sir Bernard  Callinan became engineer for the steel span himself from the end of 1 97 1 until August 1 973. Professor Roik came out from Germany and on 15 February 1972  Mr Meyer  told the  Age  that he had completed the alternative design for completing the bridge 'within. 40 hours of arriving in Australia'. 
At all material times the 'responsible ' Minister was the  Hon.  R. J. Hamer, M.L.C., then Minister for Local Government. It is clear that he never understood the significance of the major design changes and even told the Victorian Parliament that the new plans, the Wolfram-Roik plans, rested on  Dr Fairhurst  's international reputation. In fact, Fairhurst was bitterly opposed to the plans adopted. Subsequent Ministers in charge, the  Hon.  R. J. Hunt and the  Hon.  J. A. Rafferty who went to the Ministry of Transport in 1973, have not understood the issues either. The West Gate Bridge came under the Ministry of Transport from 1973. 
The story of Fairhurst 's elimination has all the classic elements of a conspiracy. The very complexity of the issues involved was a trump card in the hands of the conspirators. The most alarming aspect of this horror story is the complete ignorance of the Victorian Government and its willingness to leave all technical decisions to the socalled experts. The so-called Professorial Technical Advisory Group quoted by the Victorian Government in support of the Wolfram-Roik scheme literally never met and its members were individually conned into signing a statement in support prepared by International Public Relations Ltd. Worst of all, vital information has been suppressed, particularly the fact that the greatest stress areas in the bridge have no external support. Every newspaper in Australia ought to demand the right to publish diagram 71/107/15. Unfortunately the West Gate promotors have been able to assume that the very complexity of the issues will protect them from exposure because exposure rests on an understanding of the facts. 
In my letter to the publication  Engineers Australia  on 27 January 1978,1 wrote: 
The worrying question posed by West Gate is not about engineering. It is about decision-making. In an increasingly technological age, who makes the decisions? Should it be the politicians or the technologists? I draw the line at the often accepted argument that technology is best left to the technologiststhat somewhere there is a man in a white coat who understands complexities and that we should leave decisionmaking in his hands (or claws). 
I want to talk about advertising. But before I get onto that subject, I cannot help responding to the contribution of  Mr Interlocutor  and Bones earlier on when they were talking about Tasmania and its transport problems. There are just four points that ought to be made to the House. First, the Liberal Party and Tasmanian members tried very hard to escape from the Tasmanian Railways and Australian Railways agreement. Secondly, they are obviously going to abolish the service of the Tasman Limited - 
-We will see. Thirdly, the  Australian Trader  has been removed from service. Finally, Tasmanian members have never put a case here for Tasmania on urban public transport. I turn to the question of - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
-The Australian Government ought to be encouraging and persuading the advertising industry to provide more information and not less for consumers. Remember the long fight before date stamping was accepted for perishable commodities such as milk? Well, the fight to have ingredients listed on the packaging is not yet won. Marketers tell us: 'The public don't want to know; the information would only confuse them'. Let me give some examples. In the United States of America, chloroform has been banned since 1976 as an ingredient in pharmaceuticals on the ground that it is carcinogenic. In Australia it still remains as an important ingredient in 10 out of 41 popular toothpaste brands recently tested. I would like to be informed when I go into a chemist or supermarket which tube has the cancer. Am I entitled to know? I say: 'Yes'. 
It is clear that fluorocarbon aerosol propellants are hallucinogenic and have contributed to many deaths among 'Pure 'n' Simple' sniffers- a growing group among the young. Should the packages contain a warning so that the majority of purchasers can force fluorocarbons off the market, simply by applying market pressure, or would the information simply attract more deviant users? The matter needs very careful consideration, in addition to the possible harm to the ozone layer from fluorocarbons which are currently being used in the United States. 
For many years I have wanted advertisement to contain a code supervised perhaps by the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Industries Assistance Commission indicating relative value for money. For example, one such code should indicate the cost of packaging relative to the cost of the basic ingredients, Clearly the cost of aerosol packaging is far greater than the cost of fly spray or 'Pure 'n' Simple' if purchased in bulk, but customers ought to be able to choose, for example, between a 3: 1 ratio of package costs to ingredients costs and a 5:1 ratio if they are to make a rational market judgment. Similarly, such a code could indicate the relative cost in car manufacturing of the motor, steering, brakes, chassis and safety features compared to the costs of styling, trim, accessories and cosmetic features. Obviously people are paying far more for the cosmetic features in cars than they are paying for the actual work- and they ought to be informed of the relative cost. 
It is also very difficult for the lay purchaser to determine the relative efficiency of the heating and cooling devices. As the American Physical Society pointed out in its important study entitled 'The Efficient Use of Energy' many appliances have an efficiency in inverse proportion to their sophistication- electric cookers, space heaters or swimming pool heaters being good examples. We could have, I suggest, an ITE- an index of thermodynamic efficiency- rating to suggest how much energy value consumers are receiving for their energy dollar. The present listing of 'wattage' is useless, indicating how much energy is chewed up but not how much is given back to us in usable form. 
I believe that doctors and lawyers ought to be able to advertise in a limited way. For example, a couple of weeks ago I was stuck in Canberra for the weekend. I felt ill. When I tried to call a doctor there were several inhibiting factors: Doctors Everingham, Klugman, Cass, Jenkins and Grimes had all gone home. I did not have a telephone book, but even if I had, the yellow pages would have told me nothing. If I had rung at random, I might well have dialled a gynaecologist, a thoracic surgeon, an ear, nose and throat man, an eye specialist or a Medibank syphoner before I found a friendly or available general practitioner. I think that each telephone entry for doctors should have a number or letter code indicating their expertise or even their limitations. For example, Kelly, Edward; G.P., NHC- that is, a general practitioner who does not take house calls. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a document entitled The Patients' Bill of Rights' issued by the Medical Consumers ' Association of New South Wales. 
) If so, does the document assert that a patient is entitled to full information on the state of his or her health and the treatment undertaken. . 
Will he arrange for this or a similar document to be provided for all hospital patients upon, or prior to, hospital entry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that hearing aids cost between $300 and $700 and that no health insurance fund will provide cover for aids to assist hearing impairment. 
What assistance is available, except to pensioners and children, for the provision of (a) amplified telephone installation and rental charges thereon and (b) hearing aid equipment for radio or television. 
-I want to take up one of the last points made by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  He seemed to be suggesting: 'Let us get the technology right first and when we have worked out the technology we will work out the philosophy on which the technology ought to be implemented'. I think that  is  a classic example of putting the cart before the horse. It is absolutely essential that we work out now, before we are committed and locked into some technological exercise, precisely what it is that we intend to do. We have to work out our philosophy of public broadcasting, our philosophy of usage of communication facilities throughout the nation, and then plug the technology into that. I think that in the past there have been too many examples of enormous commitments to technological marvels. The Sydney Opera House, the Melbourne Underground Rail Loop and the West Gate Bridge are three examples that come to mind. It is only subsequently, after there have been commitments to the technology, that the Government says: 'Let us sit down for a minute and work out what it is that we are trying to do '. 
I think it is very important that when the Parliament has the opportunity to strengthen the role of the generalist as against the specialist it ought to take that opportunity. I have said before in this chamber and I am sure I will say again many times, that broadly speaking, we are a chamber of generalists. That is to say, all of us or most of us have some particular expertise in some area but broadly speaking we are generalists as against the entire range of subjects that come before us. I think where we have an opportunity to strengthen the role of the generalist as against the technical specialist we ought to take it. That is precisely what the amendment to clause 10 suggests. I think it is particularly important that if we are to have a parliament which is to stand up to the challenges of the last quarter of the twentieth century we ought to be sure that we are fully informed about what is happening in this extremely important Australian Science and Technology Council. That is the first thing- we ought to strengthen the role of the generalist vis-a-vis the specialist. 
I make the point that very often in councils such as this the most important thing to be done is the determining of relativities. We will not be making absolute judgments, we will not be spending a lot of time examining, say, renal surgery and determining which kind of experimentation in renal surgery is likely to be more important than another. We will perhaps be determining relativities about how much time ought to be devoted to applied research as against pure research. That is a decision involving a value judgment. It is not altogether a matter of saying what the absolute value of each particular piece of research is; it is a matter of determining relativities. I think this is where the experience and the general understanding of life of the generalist- I include members of Parliament in that description- can be just as important as the role of the specialist. The scientists are not necessarily the best people to judge that. 
I would like briefly to refer to my own experience on various boards which have been administering moneys and helping to determine policies for both the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. I was a member for a while, under a Liberal government, of the Commonwealth Music Board. I say without any hesitation that musicians are not necessarily the best judges of relativities in determining where money ought to go. Very often it seemed to me that the generalist who had a very deep interest in music could contribute valuably where it was a matter of determining relativities. We are not determining whether money ought to be spent recording the thirty-second Beethoven sonata as against the thirty-first. 

 Mr BARRY JONES I am talking about the role of the expert, the role of the technologist if you like, as against the role of the generalist. That is what I am talking about. It is very important. Similarly, I would have said from my five years as a member of the Australian Film Development Corporation that the judgment of the film maker about where money ought to be applied in films was not necessarily the best judgment. There is a very important role for the generalist to help to determine relativities. Similarly, in my six years on the Australian Council for the Arts- again, I point out that I was appointed by a Liberal Party Government- the important role that I and other people like  Dr Coombs  could fulfil was that as generalists we were able to help to determine relativities and to compare, weigh and evaluate the advice that was put in by people who were experts in particular areas. 
-No, no. They represent the taxpayer, who, in many cases, is footing the bill. 
-Some of them are and some of them, no doubt, are not. Just as it is said that war is much too important to be left to the generals, and as we say that the preservation of archives is much too important to be left to the archivists, I believe that the determination of science policy should not just be left to the scientists. 
-The point about the politician is that he is not someone who begins in the same way as an engineer or a chemist. He does not start off when he leaves school by saying: 'I will go to the university. I will acquire a degree in political science and that degree will automatically qualify me to become a politician. ' There are too many intervening stages before the person who might have a theoretical qualification is allowed to practice the art of politics. The result is that we appeal to the electorate, broadly because we are the nominees of parties which represent a coalition of broad general interests. That needs to be said very often. There are too many examples of scientists who have been afflicted by tunnel vision. They have had an acute knowledge of the subject very close to them but they have not been able to appreciate the whole. Honourable members will be familiar with the famous parable of the four blind men and the elephant. It illustrates in many ways the problems that we have where decisions can be made because a particular expert is putting his arms around some subject that is close to him and is not looking at the general problem. 
We need to look at science policy, as with every other policy, at two levels at least. There needs to be the worm's eye view by the specialist who works very close to the subject matter, and there also needs to be the bird's eye view by the person who is not personally, professionally or technically involved but who, to use that ghastly cliche word, is able to exercise an overview. It is because of the need to have an overview that the Opposition believes that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  in his infinite wisdom and judgment, ought to accept the amendment which has been moved tonight. 
-I am grateful to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for giving me another opportunity to return to the case of the missing archives. Our archives are a vital national resource and the fact that they have been plundered is a crime against the nation. It may be that the motives of the people who mutilated the wartime archives were good. They may well have felt that they were protecting the Army's reputation by destroying the files, but in fact the absence of files makes it difficult to make an effective case in the Army's defence. They may have been - 
-Let us talk about murder and rape. The curious thing is that if one looks at what few files survived, for example file 85/1/671 which is one of the few things that escaped the holocaust, one finds that although they refer to 'the, conviction and execution of 21 natives- 12 being for murder and nine for treason'- there is not one word about rape. There is no reference to any accusation about rape. This is the problem about relying on personal memories, going back 35 years in the absence of documentary evidence. In what few documents survived there is not one reference to the crime of rape. That is not to say that that is not true. It may have been that rape was involved. What I am saying is that in the absence of the documents it is impossible to form any kind of judgment. 
The most important issues in the controversy over the Australian Army's hanging of indigenes in New Guinea are, firstly, the selective omission or suppression of important documents relating to the nation's history; secondly, the whole question of the relationship between a civilian government at home and the actions of its armies in the field; and, thirdly, the all-too-ready assumption that 'what you don't know doesn't hurt you' and that national ignorance on distasteful subjects is preferable to knowledge of the facts which could lead us to make balanced, informed judgments. I have been concerned, but not altogether surprised, by the bitterness of the attacks made on me in many letters I have received- many anonymous, some obscene and all of them missing the point. 
I have been accused, for example, of political stirring. For what purpose? There is no suggestion of an attack on the Fraser Government. I do not know when the archives disappeared. It could have been under the Chifley Government, the Menzies Government or under the Whitlam Government. There is no suggestion of an attack on the Fraser Government. I have made no criticism of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  Indeed, as I said tonight when I was talking to him, I think he has been extremely diligent and conscientious in pursuing the matter. It is a matter of conscience. 
-Because the national record has been mutilated. That is what I am whingeing about. The angry and defensive reaction to my pointing up  Mr Ellicott  's disclosures is that the relevant files are missing from all archival depositories- in Sydney, Canberra, Brisbane, Melbourne and Port Moresby. They have all been destroyed by some miraculous coincidence. I think this illustrates what I have sometimes called the 'avoidance syndrome'- the marked unwillingness of Australians to face unpleasant issues directly or to explain their actions fully. I find  Sir Edmund  Herring's position somewhat contradictory. If the 1943 hangings were so vital to preserve law and order in New Guinea, why was the Australian Government never informed about them?  Sir Edmund  Herring said: We were decent people trying to do the decent thing by them'. When the Australian Government asked for details, why did the Army say that there had been only seven hangings? I do not know the final figure yet. It is clearly more than 60 and may well be more than 100. But the Army was not in New Guinea for its own purposes. It was there as an agent of the civilian government. 
-A11 right. Why could not the Labor Government of the day be told the truth? The destruction of our history is an act of self-mutilation. If we accept it without protest we reduce ourselves to the status of moral pygmies. We ought to be in a position to know the facts and to form some kind of judgment, based on all relevant circumstances of the war. Knowledge may promote understanding: Ignorance cannot. I am alarmed by the apparent enthusiasm for suppression. Given the past record of the honourable member for St George I can understand his sensitivity on the grounds of wartime atrocities and war crimes. I can understand too that, if he could possibly exercise the power to suppress records, his own records would be amongst the first to go. The mutilation of our national records is a crime against the nation. How can we write the history of this country unless we understand all aspects of it? We cannot produce a kind of Pollyanna history. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
What are the various surcharges that freight forwarders using Conference rates make, in particular the bunker surcharge and the currency adjustment factor, what is their purpose, and how are they calculated. 
Can he advise whether freight forwarders charging Conference rates deduct the full container load discount before applying the currency and bunker adjustment factors. 
Are any regulations in force which require forwarders to detail these charges in invoices to importers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Is he party to the setting of freight charges to Australia by the Outward Continent/Australia Conference; if not, is Australia 's interest in this matter represented at all. 
What incentives are offered to European freight forwarders to use only Conference vessels and charge Conference rates. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say how many kilometres of unused or lightly used railway line exist in the Sydney and Melbourne Transport Districts. 
Have these lines been taken into consideration by his Department in the development of strategies for transport in these crowded cities; if so, how. 
What consideration has been given to upgrading or adapting lines to provide direct rail services from Mascot and Tullamarine Airports to the respective city centres. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the figures for (a) imports (b) exports and (c) invisibles in the Australian overseas trade current account for each year since 1 957-58. 
As to the invisibles component over that period, how much is attributable to (a) insurance, (b) storage and (c) freight charges. 
What has been the proportion in the current account of the movement in invisibles relating to freight charges in each of the last 5 years. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
Who have been the successive Chairmen of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial from 1945 to date and for what years. 
I can understand why the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is sitting at the table, did not choose to speak in bringing down these amendments because if one looks at his speech on 10 April, which is reported at page 1297 of  Hansard - 
-Exactly. It was quite a good speech. All the provisions that are listed on page 1297 are now of no effect whatever because what he set out was the procedure that would be followed in setting out a national code. Now whatever happened to that national code? The Minister identified himself with it, set out the safeguards but it does not exist any more. I will explain what the Minister has not explained to the Committee- what the amendments mean. For the benefit of those people who are listening to this debate, the key to it is contained in clause 1 1 of the Bill. Clause 11(1) states, in effect, that where the Governor-General says that the laws of a particular State or Territory are not adequate to provide for nuclear codes for environment protection then the Governor-General- in other words the Commonwealth Governmentshould take the lead and should provide for the imposition of codes. Now, the original sub-clause 10 of clause 11, which is one of the clauses amended in the appalling amendments before the Committee tonight, states: 
Until such date as is fixed by Proclamation for the purpose of this sub-section, regulations shall not be made in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) or (2 ) for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, a code of practice in any State. 
In other words, the suggestion is that the Government wants to delay it, if necessary, until the States are in line, but there is no suggestion that the law of the Commonwealth should not prevail. Of course, the Constitution provides in the case of a conflict between a State and the Commonwealth that the law of the Commonwealth prevails. Now I will refer to the amendment which states: 
Regulations shall not be made in pursuance of sub-section 1 or 2 for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, a code of practice in a State unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, that code of practice in the State. 
In other words, the States then have a veto power. 
-I am not talking about eliminating the States. The honourable member for La Trobe would be well advised to be silent on this.  His  contribution to the debate was the most amazing performance that I have ever heard in the House. When I spoke on the Bill on 4 May I spoke in rather unusual defence of  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, who had sent a telegram. He said that the Commonwealth ought to be engaging in meaningful discussion now and that he would like to have some discussion about the final form of the Bill. What in fact happened is that the Government has gone through a 180 degree turn. Instead of saying that it regards it as a matter of national responsibility and following the advice of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  and myself, that we have meaningful and worthwhile discussions with the States, in effect what the honourable member said is: 'Right; let us give it away altogether.' He said that we should forget the national responsibility and convert it to a State level. How far does one go? One of the most inane comments made by the honourable and ga-ga member for La Trobe was when he said that a universal approach is needed to this. I thought that was absolutely rich. In other words he was saying that we need standards that can be recognised internationally. 
-He says, 'Hear, hear'. One can imagine the situation of somebody going to the United States or to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and saying that there will now be a universal approach on nuclear codes. Then, there are three speakers. One  speaker  will give the Queensland version; another  speaker  will give the Western Australian version and another will give the version of the Northern Territory. It is a mystery as great as the Trinity. We illustrate thus the magnificence of our universal approach to problems- come on boys, the three of you get up, either as a trio or consequentially and state Australia's universal approach. What sort of piffle is that? Even the honourable member for La Trobe must realise that what he said is completely and utterly inconsistent. One cannot have a universal approach and also have three alternative approaches at three different levels from three different States. 
This is a national responsibility. This is the National Parliament. How far does one take it. Supposing, and it is not too much of a reductio ad absurdum, that the pressure groups within Queensland say that the situation ought to vary from State to State and we ought to take into account the views of municipalities. They might say that we ought to get the views of local government on nuclear codes. Obviously the Opposition would not object to local government being consulted. It ought to be consulted. But suppose in your own State of Queensland,  Mr Chairman,  the local government instrumentalities say to the Queensland Government that they think there ought to be variable codes within the State and that whatever regulations the State Governor is asked to make ought to be based essentially on the recommendations of local governments. One could have the absolutely inane situation of variable codes from State to State which are essentially municipally or localgovernment based rather than nationally based. 
The point the Opposition has made is absolutely and completely contrary to the suggestion made by the honourable member for La Trobe. The Opposition has not suggested that the States ought to be eliminated from this area. Of course they have to be involved in the discussions. That was the point of what I said and what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said on 4 May. But we do not believe that the Commonwealth should vacate the field. I feel extremely disappointed that the Minister has not contributed to the debate. I hope that he will speak before the matter is put to the vote, to illustrate how he can reconcile what he said on 10 April in his eloquent speech, at page 1297 of  Hansard,  with the import of this Bill. The Minister was absolutely silent. He made no attempt to explain what the clause was. In fact it might be said that no  speaker  from the Government side tonight has addressed himself to any clause- not one. 
-To the contrary, the Minister had the chance, as did the honourable member for La Trobe. Instead, honourable members were treated to ten minutes of beating about the bush. The Minister might also explain how he is able to reconcile clause 11(1) with clause 1 1 ( 10). I should think that they are really quite contradictory. The Government is saying that it will set out a national code but at the same time it says that the States will have the right to pull out the plug at any time. We ought to get away from the concept of rule by pressure groups or by developers. It is clear that the more one goes into local government, State or regional government, the easier it is for particular interest groups to exercise an influence that is perhaps a disproportionate influence. The closer one gets to a national interest the more difficult it is for narrow, sectional interests to exercise a dominant and disproportionate interest. That is what honourable members should be about in a National Parliament. They ought to think nationally. 
This issue has international repercussions. If it does not work out it could cause great harm, not just for this nation but perhaps for the whole human race- I mean if the whole question of control of nuclear waste and nuclear controls is not reconciled. To say that the Australian contribution is to offer a kind of political schizophrenia, with two or three voices speaking simultaneously, so that if you want to hear the national view you just stick out your ear and Listen to the Tower of Babel, with different competing interest groups within the States putting different points of view, is appalling. The honourable member ought to hang his head in shame or at least go outside for a few minutes and think about the matter seriously and come back and have another go. It is a national responsibility. The States have to be taken into consideration. There is no suggestion of cutting out the States. But, I do not believe that what they say has to be absolutely decisive. The States should be given every opportunity to express their points of view but then let us speak as a National Parliament. If we are to have a universal approach it can be done with one voice only, at the national level. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in rejecting Commonwealth funding for Film Australia's proposed production  The Unknown Political Prisoner,  he has relied wholly or in part on advice that he attributed to  Mr Phillip  Adams,  Mr Graham  Burke, a Commissioner of the Australian Film Commission and Director of Roadshow Distributors Pty Ltd, and  Mr Peter  Rose of Hoyts Theatres Ltd. 
) Is it also a fact that the document tabled by him on 2 May 1978 purporting to be the views of  Mr Adams,  consists of sketchy notes taken by an officer of Film Australia from a prolonged telephone call and which  Mr Adams  in the  Age  of 5 May 1978 describes as being taken out of context and grossly misrepresented. 
Is he able to say whether  Mr Burke  and Roadshow Distributors Pty Ltd considered that  The Adventures of Barry Mackenzie, The Devil's Playground, Storm Boy  and  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  would be commercial failures. 
Is he also able to say whether  Mr Burke  and Roadshow Distributors Pty Ltd considered that  Eliza Fraser, High Rolling  and  End Play  would be commercial successes. 
) Is he also able to say whether there has been any Australian film production in which  Mr Peter  Rose and Hoyts Theatres Pty Ltd expressed confidence prior to production. 
Will he reconsider his decision not to fund  The Unknown Political Prisoner. 
I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  Censure is the most serious action that can be taken against a Minister within the Westminster system of responsible government. It is a motion taken reluctantly against the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who has qualities of integrity and candour not conspicuously shared by many of his colleagues. Machiavelli once wrote that the statesman needed to have the courage of the lion and the guile of the fox. The Minister for Defence has one but not the other. He is an honourable opponent. In the event of a lethal engagement with the Minister one could be confident of receiving wounds only in the front, not in the back. It is the Minister's tragedy that where he has given loyalty in the past he has not received it in return, either from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or from the Department which he ostensibly administers. 
It has been a bad month for the Minister for Defence- snowed by  Sir Arthur  Tange, compromised by  Senator Withers,  patronised by the United States Ambassador and praised by Don Chipp. Under the Westminster system a Mimster has an absolute responsibility to understand what is going on inside his Department, to keep firm control on what his subordinates are doing and to tell the Parliament the truth- not just the truth as he sees it but the truth as it actually is. But this obligation to tell the truth is not a subjective, relative one. I hope from the sound of the cannon outside that the Department of Defence has not decided to take pre-emptive action against the Parliament. 
A lazy or a foolish Minister might take a very dim view of the truth, but the Westminster system does not provide for this easy option. Every Minister ought to have on his desk the words that President Truman had on his desk: 'The buck stops here'. Every Minister ought to be able to ride herd on his subordinates, no matter how senior they are, the positions they have held or the powerful friendships that they have cultivated, because he can say to them 'I take the blame for your errors. If you conceal the truth, your position remains secure but I am in jeopardy. ' 
The Secretary to the Department of Defence is not answerable to this Parliament but he is answerable to his Minister. It is the Minister who is responsible to the Parliament and he takes the blame for the gross errors of judgment of his subordinates. It is a harsh judgment but it is an inexorable one. The principle of ministerial responsibility has been honoured more in the breach than in the observance in recent years in Australia. In such a clear case as this the Minister is accountable. He ought to be taken to account and he ought to vacate his office. In an earlier ministry, as Minister for the Navy, the present Minister for Defence paid the price on 22 March 1971 for the deficiencies of others- deficiencies in naval administration as revealed by the royal commission into the Voyager disaster. That was perfectly proper. 
While there has been no loss of life in this case, the implications of the North West Cape fiasco are extremely grave because they deal with, 
1 ) the relationship of the Department with its Minister, 
the quality of information given by an ally to Australia, 
the quality of information a Minister gives to the Parliament, and 
the extent to which Australia becomes a mere puppet in vital matters of defence and security, told only what we are permitted to be told rather than what we are entitled to be told. 
Under the Whitlam Government the Westminster standards were applied very rigidly. If a Minister misled the House knowingly or innocently, he was out. If a Minister was misled himself and did not know what major decisions were being made without his knowledge, then he was out too. The Minister for Defence should be out on this basis as well. The Department of Defence maintains such stringent security that it excludes the Minister from access to information too. He is no better informed in some of these matters than any back bench member of this Parliament, that is to say, hardly at all. 
How is it possible that the United States public at large can be informed of material through the Congressional Record while in Australia the Minister for Defence himself is excluded from access to such information? It is insulting to the Minister; it is insulting to the Parliament and it is insulting to the Australian people. We find, for example, in the military construction appropriations for 1978 hearings before a sub-committee of the Committee of Appropriations of the House of Representatives 95th Congress, First Session, published in 1977, there is an indication of the installations that were to be set up under the defence satellite communications system. There we have a table on page 183- unfortunately, it cannot be reproduced, I understand, in  Hansard,  although it ought to be- which sets out the priorities, the dates for completion of additional constructions, and the date given against No. 15 in the list-the H. E. Holt Base- is November 1980. The report indicates how long the lead time is to make sure that this tight schedule is maintained. Yet the Minister says there have not even been any discussions about it. But the United States comes back and says, 'Yes, there have been quite clear discussions since 1972'. 
The Minister must take the blame for the deficiencies of his own Department. He may be personally impeccable, if not indeed infallible, but if he has been misled by his Department, even if he is still innocent, he must take responsibility before this House. I think Cook's cartoon in the  Financial Review  for 24 May tells the story. A battered but recognisable figure- the Minister for Defence- wanders away from the United States Base at North West Cape, raises a finger and intones 'I am your leader', while public servants hidden behind barbed wire entanglements and teacups ask 'Is he one of ours?' to which the reply comes 'No, he is one of the Government's'. The caption is 'The unknown soldier'. I draw the attention of the House to an editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 May. Under the heading 'The Russell Hill Government', referring to the Department of Defence at Russell Hill, it points out: 
It is commonly assumed that the Defence Department dances to the tune of its political masters some mile or so down the road. 
But the current issue of a new United States satellite defence communication system at North West Cape in Western Australia shows that this is far from true. 
The Defence Department, on the issue of the new satellite defence system, has presumed that it, not Cabinet or Parliament, is the Government of Australia. 
It has been conducting secret, highly political negotiations with the Pentagon on the new station without telling the elected Government what the US is planning. 
And what is more, when details of the new US facility were published in the Press the Defence Department misled both the Prime Minister's Department and the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers. 
These are very serious charges, and they should be documented. 
The editorial proceeds to document them. It concludes: 
The Defence Department no doubt intended at some future stage to take the Fraser Government into its confidence on American intentions at North West Cape. 
The point is, however, that after months of 'informal' liaison with the Pentagon, and after facts about a new installation had been publicly revealed in the US Congressional Record, the Defence Department had not bothered to inform its masters. 
The Fraser Government is justifiably outraged on the issue. It should tell the US Administration that all future changes to any US defence installation in Australia should be made in consultation with the Australian Government, not the Defence Department. 
It should then put the cleaners through the Defence Department. The late  Sir Robert  Menzies won the 1963 election on the refusal of Labor's '36 faceless men' to approve the original North West Cape radio station. The Fraser Government is suffering acute embarrassment on the 'faceless' Defence Department 's significant upgrading of that station. 
Strict control by the Minister in this area is essential because of the wider question of the impact of changing technology on the strategic fucntions of the United States installations in Australia and on the nature of the United States-Australia relationship itself. The United States apparently feels that once it has been granted a piece of real estate under some joint arrangement it is at liberty to update as it pleases, even if such updates radically change the functions of the bases as denned in the original agreements. The pattern is clear across all the major United States installations in Australia-Pine Gap and Nurrungar as well as North West Cape. At Pine Gap, for example,  Mr Fairhall  announced in December 1 966 that the installation would consist of only two radomes. Subsequently, in 1969, two further radomes were added. Then, in 1975, under project Argus, another radome was added and the computer room, already incredibly large, was expanded by a further third. 
-It was not informed either. This expansion took Pine Gap into new areas, enabling it to control a wider range of intelligence satellites- both Central Intelligence Agency and National Security Agency- and making Pine Gap the most important intelligence station outside the United States. 
The same trend also has taken place at North West Cape. This base originally was intended as a naval communications station for communicating with the 15th submarine squadron of FBM submarines. Yet, it has clearly developed to take other capabilities. For example, North West Cape was the key station responsible for the command and control during the mining of Haiphong during the Vietnam War. In October 1973, North West Cape was also one of the principal stations involved in putting United States strategic nuclear forces on alert. Also, at some time in the late 1960s, North West Cape became host to an operation of the Naval Security Group- NSG- the largest component of the National Security Organisation, NSA, which is the super-secret American electronic intelligence organisation. The NSA facility at North West Cape is a four-point log-periodic VLF electronic intelligence receiver, for monitoring Soviet submarine communications from Vladivostok, Khaborovsk, et cetera. 
These are much more than qualitative updates of the installations, and they should be detailed to Parliament. Indeed, there should be a policy of announcing all additions to these American installations, of whatever sort, to the Parliament. We can go back as far as May 1963 when  Sir Garfield  Barwick, then Minister for External Affairs, in introducing the United States Naval Communication Station Agreement Bill, spoke of 'mutuality of confidence and of community of interest and purpose'. In 1973 it became clear to the Labor Government that the United States was not, nor had it been, providing information to the Australian Government about the general purpose of United States bases. In 1974, Lance Barnard, the then Minister for Defence, and  Dr James  Schlesinger, the United States Secretary for Defense, renegotiated the North West Cape agreement to achieve what purported to be full consultation on operating objectives. Yet, it has been clear from the 1978 episode, that this agreement has not been carried through and that Australia has been left in the dark. 
We can illustrate this by the initial confusion on the part of the Minister for Administrative Services in another place and the Minister for Defence and the subsequent contradictions in the Minister's statements. It took the Government three days apparently to realise that there was even a question of a new installation at the 
North West Cape. The first response on 8 May was that the reference was to an observatory at Learmonth and the second response, on 9 May, was that it referred to the terminal that was installed in October 1977. Until 10 May the Government appeared completely ignorant of the fact that a new terminal was to be installed in 1980-81. On the question of whether any new contracts had been let, on 24 May the Minister said: 
No contract has been let regarding North West Cape, that is, Australian Territory. 
However, according to the congressional testimony contained in the Pentagon memo and a report in the DMS Market Intelligence Report, contracts for 21 AN/MSC-61 ground stations, including one at North West Cape, were let to Philco-Ford in August last year. The Minister said on 16 May: 
United States plans to procure the equipment  are relatively firm, and certain contracts to that end have been let. 
The tense is past imperfect. The question of whether the installation of the AN/MSC-61 represents a mere updating of the obsolescent AN/TSC-54 also needs to be discussed. Perhaps the Minister can refer that matter in his reply. The present function of the North West Cape is to communicate via VLF with the American fleet ballistic missile- FBM- and submarines such as Polaris and Poseidon in the south-west Pacific and the Indian Ocean. The current terminal is there only to expedite messages from the United States to the North West Cape. The AN/MSC-61 and the DSCS ITI system of which it is a part represents a quantum increase in capabilities. DSCS III is a global, Pentagon command and control system. As General Paschall described it- he is no relation to the lamb of the same name- DSCS III is in support of 'critical command, intelligence, warning, presidential and other user requirements'. 
Is it not good enough for the Parliament of this country to be informed of that? Is it not good enough for the Department of Defence to inform its own Minister so that he can be aware of the situation when it is raised in the Paliament? It is because these two requirements have not been fulfilled that reluctantly I second this motion of censure against the honourable Minister for Defence. I believe that under the Westminister system he deserves the censure of this Parliament. I call on the House to support the motion. 
-Since the advent of the seat belt the number of motor fatalities in Australia has reduced by a percentage, but there are more surviving injured who are paraplegic or quadriplegic. The numbers attending special spinal and head injury units in the major capital cities have increased. For example, the numbers for the Austin Hospital in Melbourne are as follows: 1974-76; 1976-81; and 1977-90. Moveover, with advancing medical technology, treatment- and its cost- is increasing too. The average stay for paraplegics at the Austin Hospital has risen from 121.1 days in 1968 to 148.5 in 1977. For quadriplegics the figure rose from 138.8 in 1968 to 183.2 in 1977. They are placing a heavy additional burden upon the community, both in terms of cost of their hospitalisation and of their after care, and upon the social security system. We pay the price and will perhaps continue to do so, although the cost of the expanding medical establishment is now being viewed by government and public alike with less open hearts, let alone open purses. Are we getting the rights result? Is it the best solution to set aside and pay for the care of these victims of our lifestyle? 
The prospects of a quadriplegic in our society are bleak and depressing. Those specialising in their care report that they suffer acutely from depression, which can be blotted out by drugs. Lack of mobility, a sense of social worthlessness, and severely restricted access to the facilities we take for granted, hardly represent a rosy prospect for life. Let us consider the question of social worth. In our society a person's worth is most commonly related to his or her job. In Australia it is very difficult for an immobilised person or person in a wheel-chair to get a job, and probably such people are actively discriminated against in employment. Active assistance for getting jobs is limited too. Yet these people have the capacity to lead useful lives in productive enterprises. Manpower- their manpoweris going to waste. Not only are we not reaping the reward of their potential; we are paying for their maintenance in a state of suspension from useful activity. Things we take for granted, like going into town, shopping, going to see a film and so on are all either difficult or impossible for such people. Very little provision is made to accommodate wheel-chairs in theatres, concert halls or stores. Public transport is not adapted to moving the disabled. Many office buildings- a recent demonstration showed that the offices of Medibank in Melbourne are particularly deficient in this regard- have no or inadequate access for the disabled. Yet an Australian safety standard is set down for this, but it simply is not enforced. 
How does Australia compare with other countries? Our treatment of the disabled is undoubtedly of world class. Our reincorporation of them into society is decidedly second class. In the United Kingdom, which economically is a poorer society than ours, the rights of the disabled are enshrined in the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act. This Act details provision to be made - 
-I think it is no coincidence that it has had a Labour government for a much longer period than any other country in the Commonwealth. This Act details provision to be made in welfare and housing, premises open to the public, university and school buildings, to ensure the representation of the disabled in a wide range of activities, and it covers special cases of deaf, blind and autistic persons. 
In Britain discrimination against disabled people is actively discouraged. In Australia we have hardly begun to give these people a place in the working world. Action is needed on all fronts. The initial costs and continuing costs will be high. The rights of these people to fulfilling lives cannot be denied, and their contribution to our national life should not be thrown away. The Commonwealth Government can act to adopt the Australian standard for access by the disabled. It can ensure that it promote the rehabilitation and retraining of the disabled through its various agencies and departments. It should make Commonwealth grants provisional upon the adoption of a code similar to the United Kingdom Act, and exhort the States to make the appropriate provision. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a document that was really relevant to the previous debate. I apologise. I did not have it ready in time. It is a copy of the road safety policy of the Victorian Branch of the Labor Party adopted in October 1977. 1 have spoken about this to the Minister. I should be grateful if it could be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows: 

Road deaths and injuries are a major national disaster. Currently 90,000 people are injured and 3,700 killed on Australian roads each year, imposing an intolerable burden on families and the community. In Victoria, the totals are 18,000 injured and 800 killed each year- a cost to the taxpayer of over $340m. 
Road trauma is a result of an increasingly motorised and competitive society, where citzens' interests are subordinated to market forces. Their influence on those under 30 in their use of cars and motor cycles is reflected by the fact that 63 per cent of injured belong to that group, 50 per cent are under 25 and 25 per cent are between 1 7 and 20 years. 
Victoria's motor accident death rate- per 10,000 vehicles or per 100,000 population- is about 10 per cent lower than the rest of Australia and the injury rate is about one-third lower. 
There are slightly more fatal accidents in the metropolitan statistical district compared with the rest of Victoria and more than twice the number of 'injury only' accidents in the metropolitan area. 
An average of 85 per cent of drivers killed and 72 per cent of drivers injured in Victoria are male. About 73 per cent of road users killed and 63 per cent of road users injured are male. 
Aggressive or drunken driving is overwhelmingly caused by male drivers. Over 50 per cent of the road trauma is associated with blood alcohol levels of 0.05 and over. 
Excessive psychological dependence on the car has made it an increasingly expensive status symbol, an example of mobile privatism'- where the isolated driver may feel that his car is an extension of home- an outlet for anxiety, masculine aggression (machismo), and compensation for sexual frustration, or a sense of personal inadequacy rather than a rational mode of transportation in urban areas. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Following the last question on this subject to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what further representations have been made to the Government of Pakistan about the trial of  Mr Zulfiqar  Ali Bhutto and the death sentence imposed on him? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What amounts by way of act of grace payments were paid in lieu of municipal rates by the Commonwealth Government in the years (a) 1975-76 and (b) 1 976-77 to the cities of (i) Altona (ii) Keilor, (iii) Sunshine and (iv) the Shire of Werribee, Victoria. 
I rise to speak in support of this matter of public importance. I endorse the words of Robert Shelton which appeared in the  Saturday Review.  He stated: 
Most amazingly, the ninety countries known to hold political prisoners run across all sociopolitical lines. There is nearly as much use for the jailer of ideas in the ' free world ' as there is in the Communist Bloc. The supposedly idealistic emergent group of Third World nations is not only not immune to the jailing fever but also is in fact heavily into the business of locking up dissenters. In many such nations, to paraphrase the German military theoretician Karl von Clausewitz, the imprisonment of dissenters is simply the continuation of state policy by other means. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  charts, ranked by nation, showing a comparative survey of freedom and giving details of political rights and civil liberties published by Freedom House in the United States. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197806083_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197806083_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

Notes to the Table 1 The scales use the numbers 1-7, with 1 comparatively offering the highest level of political or civil rights, and 7 the lowest. A plus or minus following a rating indicates an improvement or decline in the rating since the last survey. A rating marked with a period (o) has been changed since the last survey due to revaluation by the author. This does not imply any change in the country. For further information on the scale and survey see  Freedom at Issue,  January-February 1973, p. 2ff. 2 A free state is designated by F, a partly free state by PF, and a not free state by NF. 3 A positive outlook for freedom is indicated by a plus sign, a negative outlook, by a minus, and relative stability of ratings by a zero. The outlook for freedom is based on the problems the country is facing, the way the government and people are reacting to these problems, and the longer run political traditions of the society. A judgment of outlook may also reflect an imminent change, such as the expected adoption of a meaningful new constitution. 4 Formerly the French Territory of the Afars and Issas. 5 Formerly Cambodia. 

<graphic href="109131197806083_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I want to talk in particular about the Bhutto trial because I believe that Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, currently under sentence of death in Pakistan for conspiracy to murder, must be regarded as the outstanding single case of a political prisoner in the world today. He is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and of Oxford University, is a barrister, Foreign Minister of Pakistan from 1963 to 1966, founder of the Pakistan People's Party and a democratic socialist who said that his policies were 'along the lines of the British Labour Party and Willy Brandt'. After being imprisoned in 1968-69 under the military regime of Field Marshal Ayub Kahn, Bhutto's party won the elections of 1970. After East Pakistan rose in insurrection with Indian support and was recognised as independent Bangladesh in December 1971, the Pakistani Military Government fell. Bhutto became President of a reconstituted Pakistan from 1971 to 1973 and later held the position of Prime Minister from 1973 to 1977. In 1977 he won another general election which his opponents claimed was rigged and in July 1977 a bloodless army coup overthrew the Bhutto Government. 
Early in 1 978 Bhutto and four others were sentenced to death in Lahore by a full bench of five judges. Bhutto and two others were condemned for conspiracy to murder and two others for murder. The allegation was that Bhutto had arranged to assassinate Ahmed Raza Kasuri, an Opposition member of Parliament, culminating in a machine gun attack on his car in Lahore on the night of 10 November 1 974 by two members of the Federal Security Force, a trigger-happy para-military group. The intended victim escaped unhurt but his father, Nawab Mohammed Ahmed Khan, died of his wounds. A document entitled 'Summary of Judgment in Murder Trial State v. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and others' published by the Government of Pakistan sets out an account of the trial. It makes disquieting reading. The prosecution seems to have thrown out a very wide net, as is generally the case in conspiracy charges, with the result that two of the seven originally accused, both members of the Federal Security Force, turned State's evidence in order to incriminate the others. 
The document sets out a series of somewhat unconvincing propositions, of which this seems a fair summary. 
Ahmed Raza Kasuri was a strong political opponent of Bhutto. 
Bhutto expressed extreme irritation at his opposition and denounced him in Parliament, although the reported words, 'I have had enough of you' and 'Absolute poison; I will not tolerate your nuisance', would not have seemed very remarkable even if used in this Parliament. 
Bhutto was in a powerful position to exert influence over the Federal Security Force. 
The attempt on Ahmed Raza Kasuri was by members of the Federal Security Force. 
Bhutto was extremely critical of the court proceedings during his trial. 
He accused the judges of bias, protested that the trial was held in camera and after the withdrawal of his counsel 'since he had other professional business to attend to at Sargodha '-one can only wonder what it was- denounced the conduct of the court and refused to defend himself. The judges, fearlessly rejecting the adage that no man ought to be a judge in his own cause, took the view that the trial was exemplary; that his actions proved that Bhutto was a liar, confirmed his guilt and invalidated his defence. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  sections 23,31,32 and 33 of the Lahore High Court Summary of Judgment which illustrate the points I have made. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The account of motive was furnished by overwhelming evidence given by the son of the murdered man and Masud Mahmood, the approver, and the same was corroborated by the documentary evidence. The motive of the crime was to eliminate Ahmad Raza Kasuri who had become a strong and virulent critic of the principal accused and whose political attitude and activities offered provocation to him day in and day out. This fact was corroborated by documentary evidence placed on record consisting of official debates and speeches in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, Ahmad Raza Kasuri queried why the Members from East Pakistan were not present and then himself furnished the answer that they were not present because the leader of the minority party had decided to overthrow the majority party. He used such epithets about the principal accused as a leader obsessed with power, a leader who destroyed this country for the sake of power. He said that 'it was that leader who on 14 February, 1971, in Peshawar said that the PPP would not be attending the forthcoming sessions of the National Assembly' because they would be treated as double hostages'. He continued that 'again, the same leader on 28 February, 1971, in Lahore, said that whosoever would go to Dacca, his legs would be broken and whosoever would be going to Dacca, he would be going on a single fare'. He also referred to the speech of the principal accused, made on 14.3.71, in which he had demanded separate transfer of power in West Pakistan after he had failed to secure an agreement from Sh. Mujibur Rehman on his plan of sharing power. He also criticised the concept of equating the stability of the country with a strong centre and denned 'strong centre' as meaning 'self-centres'. He referred to the principal accused as Machiavelli and stated how Hitler became a dictator through a 'terrorised Parliament' and compared the conditions of the country to the conditions in Hitler's Germany. He said that witch-hunting was going on in Pakistan similar to the witch-hunting which took place after the burning of the German Parliament. Bhutto's victims were Ch. Zahur Elahi and Madam Tufail Mohammad. It was also clear from the official reports of the debates of the National Assembly (Ex. PW 1/8) that while dealing with the fundamental rights and guaranteeing protection and privacy of home, the complainant stated that:  ... our telephones were tapped. Our talk was checked. We were being chased by the CID Agencies, and in this particular Assembly in the lobbies and in the Cafeteria are less visitors, more CID people. Now is this right of privacy being given to us?'. He also remarked that the regime was talking of Roti (bread), Kapra (clothing) and Makan (Housing) and although the Country's economy was virtually in shambles and the country was dying of poverty, Jashans (celebrations) were being held in Larkana and Bahawalpur. He further remarked that a dishonest man had become a Prime Minister in this country. Surely under these powers, he can ruin the country and can become virtually a 'civilian dictator'. At another place, he said that the principal accused had become the strongest Dictator in the world and would be so powerful that he would not go out of the House as a living person. In this context of the attitude and the behaviour of P. W. 1 , an episode took place in the National Assembly on 3.6.1974. The principal accused remarked 'You keep quiet'. 'I have had enough of you; absolute poison'. T will not tolerate your nuisance '. These remarks followd an exchange of hot words. The principal accused once again said 'I have had enough of this man. What does he think of himself?' 
Dealing with the role of  Mr Bhutto,  the principal accused, the Full Bench remarked that the principal accused is the arch culprit having the motive in the matter. He has used the members of the Federal Security Force for personal vendetta and for satisfaction of an urge in him to avenge himself upon a person whom he considered his enemy. For his own personal ends, he has turned those persons into criminals and hired assassins and thus corrupted them. Indeed, it is paradoxical that the ruler of a country, with Islam constitutionally declared as its State religion, enabling the Muslims to order their lives in the individual and collective spheres in accordance with the teachings of Islam as set out in the Holy Qur'an and the Sunnah as its declared objective, and guaranteeing to the citizens their life and liberty, should play with the valuable life of a citizen so whimsically and tyrannically. The constitutional provisions presuppose that before a person ventures to seek election to the office of the Chief Executive of the Federation, he would order his own life in accordance with the law, injunctions and teachings of Holy Qur'an and Sunnah. Before undertaking to observe the principles of democracy, freedom, equality, tolerance and social justice, as enunciated by Islam, he should inculcate these qualities in himself. Before a person embarks upon swearing to strive to preserve the Islamic ideology he should bring himself to believe in that ideology and test his firmness in that belief. Before presuming his ability to guarantee to the citizens the enjoyment of the protection of the law and their treatment in accordance with law, he should be a believer and a true adherent of law. He should consider himself to be as much subject to law as he would wish others to be. A person who considers the Constitution and the law as the handmaid of his polity is neither qualified to be elected to the high office of the Prime Minister nor can ever be true to his oath. 
The Bench also dealt with the conduct of the principal accused in the course of the trial. The Bench observed that he had been hurling threats as well as insults on the Judges and, at times, had been unruly. In addition, he had proved himself to be a compulsive liar. He was allowed thrice to dictate his statement directly to the typist and he dictated nine pages on -25.1.1978, more than eleven pages on 28.1.1978 and about eleven pages again on 7.2. 1 978 without the least interference by the Court. All the three statements are full of repetition of false and scurrilous allegations against the Court. The first two statements were made, although they were absolutely irrelevant in answer to questions under Section 342, and the last statement was allowed to be dictated after the close of the defence evidence when all legal avenues for the making of such statement before the Court were legally closed and yet he came out with allegations that the statements were not fully recorded. Out of the five accused, the Bench remarked that he is the only person who had been levelling all sorts of imaginary and false allegations against the Court. 
The Full Bench found all the five accused guilty of the offences with which they were charged. The Court sentenced all the five accused persons under Section 120-B PPC read with Section 1 1 S PPC to rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years each. The Court also sentenced Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Mian Mohammad Abbas and Ghulam Mustafa, accused under Section 302 PPC read with Section 301, 109 and 1 1 1 PPC to death. The Court also sentenced Arshad Iqbal and Rana Iftikhar Ahmad, accused under Section 302 PPC read with Section 301 PPC and Section 34 PPC to death. The Court ordered that all the five accused shall be hanged by the neck till they are dead. The Court further sentenced Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Mian Mohammad Abbas and Ghulam Mustafa, accused under Section 307 PPC read with Section 109 PPC. to rigorous imprisonment for 7 years each. The Court sentenced Arshad Iqbal and Rana Iftikhar Ahmad under Section 307 PPC read with Section 34 PPC to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7 years each. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was also ordered to pay a sum of Rs. 23,000/- as compensation under Section 544-A Cr. P.C. or in default to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 6 months. The compensation amount, if recovered, shall be paid to the  heirs of Nawab Mohammad Ahmad Khan, deceased. The sentences of imprisonment under each head shall be concurrent and these sentences, as also the sentence to be undergone in default, shall be effective in case the sentence of death was commuted. The Court informed the convicted offenders that they could appeal to Supreme Court against their sentence within 7 days of the announcement of their judgment. 
-I thank the House. It is not a convincing document. No direct evidence whatsoever is published in the report linking Bhutto with the murder. This gives rise to the presumption that Bhutto's trial, conviction and death sentence are the carrying out of an essentially political sanction, rather than a normal civilian criminal trial. I hope that the  President  of Pakistan will exercise both judgment and mercy and commute the death sentence on Z. A. Bhutto. I hope that all honourable members share this view and that the Australian Government will pass on these views to the Government of Pakistan 
I do not believe in human infallibility- my own or anybody else's. However, a reading of history shows how often actions which can seem completely justified at one time may seem hollow and irrational in hindsight. I have little doubt that  Mr Bhutto  did terrible things, as do all politicians with supreme power. I am not here to condemn him or to condone what he has done. But we should all give pause to the way in which essentially political judgments are carried into execution. Australia is in no position to take a self-righteous posture on the subject of human rights. It is less than six years since young Australians were serving sentences of two years in gaol for matters of conscience while others who protested on a matter of conscience- the Vietnam War- had their civil liberties interfered with. Since my friend the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  made some reference to the Noel Latham case, it is worth pointing out that that case began when one man was sacked by Latham without any right of redress. When we examine Latham's case, we should look also at the case of the man who was sacked. 
The position of civil liberties has improved somewhat in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and most eastern European states in recent years but there are some disturbing examples to the contrary. The recent trial of Yuri Orlov and the sentence imposed on him have damaged the Soviet Union because it appears that Orlov has been tried for the holding and disseminating of unpopular opinions, something with which we in the Australian Labor Party are all too familiar. Similarly, the long harassment of 

 Dr Andrei Sakharov, a Nobel Peace Prize winner and a man of very great eminence and notable moderation, has caused harm to the USSR, as has the compulsory detention in psychiatric institutions of political dissidents. The greatest danger to human rights in our quarter of the globe is unquestionably in Indonesia. It is estimated that the total number of TAPOL- that is a contraction of Tahanan politik: political prisoners- in Indonesia is somewhere between 55,000 and 100,000. 1 draw the attention of the House to a report given to the United States Congressional Committee on International Relations by representatives of Amnesty International in which the following evidence was given. 
Amnesty International estimates that there are more than 53,000 political prisoners in Indonesia and that, in fact, a more accurate total is probably 100,000. They were arrested after an attempted coup in 1965, when a number of middleranking army officers tried to destroy the leadership of the Indonesian Army and assassinated six senior army generals. 
Amnesty International found that only 800 of these people had undergone any form of trial. The report continued: 
The Indonesian Government has given up long ago trying to establish before the courts that the tens of thousands of untried prisoners were in any way personally involved in the attempted coup of 1965. In the eyes of the Government their only offence was that they were once members of a trade union, a peasant association, a cultural association, or of some organisation which was operating legally during the period of the Sukarno administration and which was subsequently proscribed by the administration of President Suharto because it was regarded as Communist or left wing. 
The majority of these prisoners have never been members of the Indonesian Communist  Party,  This fact has been readily conceded in private conversations with Amnesty International by leading Indonesian officials. Even regarding those who have been members of the Indonesian Communist Party, it is now clear that the Government has no intention of establishing in the courts that they were personally involved in the attempted coup. 
Honourable members will recall that in January 1975 Amnesty International sent a distinguished Australian deputation under the leadership of  Mr R.  E. McGarvie, Q.C., who is now  Mr Justice  McGarvie of the Victorian Supreme Court. The deputation came back with a very disquieting report. Other countries are similarly involved. The situation in Chile, Uruguay, South Africa, Iran, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Ethiopia, Cuba and Kampuchea also gives rise to very grave concern. 
This is a problem that ought to affect all people irrespective of political persuasion. It is a human question which affects us all. I quote one more example. Very recently Amnesty International has been organising a world-wide campaign for the release of 15 young Argentinians seized in Buenos Aires over Easter. The 15 people include three doctors, a teacher, a metal worker, two building workers, a carpenter and two maids. They have not been seen or heard of since their sudden arrest by Argentinian authorities. Most of them were arrested on Easter Day as they left San Juste Cathedral in Buenos Aires after attending a special Mass for another political prisoner. One of the doctors- Jorge Eurman- was shot while being arrested at his surgery. The 15 people come from a slum settlement in Buenos Aires, Complejo 1 7, which has been trying to improve its conditions by self-help building projects. 
One of the terrible things about these matters affecting human rights is that they remind us that the State can be and often is a destructive force fuelled by a passion for orthodoxy and uniformity. Imprisonment and exile are common forms of political control but they are not exclusive. Conformity can be enforced in other ways such as selective reporting, selective trivialisation of what is reported or total omission of what reasonably ought to be reported. The power of the State is enormous. Not only does it have the power of life and death but it also has the power to confine, to deprive of liberty and to send into exile. It has the power to deprive of the right of fair trial, to suppress and silence fair reporting, to falsify truth by mutilating the historical record, to ridicule or isolate, to deprive of employment or the means of economic support and to deprive of the right of communication. 
I often remember the story that was attributed to  Mr Gomulka  when he was secretary of the Communist Party in Poland. Somebody said to him: 'Why do you spend so much time improving conditions in the prisons?' He said: 'Given the history of past secretaries of the Communist Party in Poland, any man in my position would be extremely unwise not to improve the conditions in the gaols'. That is absolutely right. Perhaps the best thing I can do in conclusion is to remind the House of the words of the English metaphysical poet, John Donne. They will be very familiar words to many honourable members but they deserve to be remembered. They remind us of the universality of our humanity. We cannot destroy, hurt or damage individuals anywhere in the world without destroying the whole cause of humanity. John Donne said: 
. No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main; if a clod be washed away by the sea. Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were . . . Any man's death diminishes me. because I am involved in mankind; and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls: it tolls for thee. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The discussion is concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
In view of the high incidence of skin cancer and other skin complaints in Australia, (a) what teaching facilities are there for dermatology in Australian medical schools, (b) what support does the Government give to these schools, (c) how many professors of dermatology are there at Australian universities, and (d) at which universities do these facilities exist. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) How many cases have come to the attention of the Department of Social Security of families who have been forced to sell their homes which were being purchased by bank and building society mortgages, because of working wives losing their jobs, and in particular, can the Minister give the numbers in the western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney. 
Has the Department of Social Security considered any schemes of income support or low interest loans similar to war service loans, which could be made to bona fide cases to preserve these families in their own homes; if so, what action is proposed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Has there been a change in the role of the Department of Social Security in the payment of United Kingdom age pensions. 
ls it a fact that these payments are now being paid direct from the United Kingdom; if so, do they vary widely with the rate of exchange. 
Does any change in procedure make payment more complicated for the pensioner. 
How many forms need to be completed before the pensioner receives his money. 
) What charges are levied by banks or other agencies in the transformation of entitlement to cash. 
Can the Minister indicate whether many cases of hardship have been reported, resulting from changes in arrangements between the UK Government and the Department of Social Security. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) What steps has the Minister taken to have Australian Standard 1428 ( 1977)-Design Rules for Access by the Disabled- adopted. 
Has the standard been adopted in the building codes of any State or municipality in Australia. 

 -Mr Speaker announced this afternoon the resignation of the  Hon.  Edward Gough Whitlam after 26 years as a member of the House of Representatives. He was, by universal consent, the greatest member of the present Parliament- the largest in spirit, the loftiest in aspiration, the greatest orator and the member with the widest and deepest range of interests. Gough Whitlam sat here as the honourable member for Werriwa for a quarter of a century, was  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for seven years, Leader of the Australian Labor Party for 10 years and Prime Minister for three years. Whilst he was passionate in his Australianism, he was also a man of universal interests who thought and tried to operate, to his political cost, in a larger time frame than the three years between Australian elections- or 18 months when the ALP is in office. 
The problem with democratic processes is that they often come up with the wrong result. In a free vote people will often vote for a Barabbas even where there are other choices. There is little doubt that Hitler and Mussolini would have won free elections at the height of their influence. The electors of Australia passed damning judgments on the prime ministership of E. G. Whitlam. This is not the time for a final judgment but I am confident that the verdict of history will be more generous. Conversely, the verdict of the electors in Australia was almost consistently generous to the recently deceased Prime Minister who had seven straight victories from 1949 to 1963. Yet the political world that was so triumphantly endorsed at the polls in that period now seems as remote as the Victorian era. Its values are largely obsolete and its vision of Australia as an outpost of Empire, tied to the United States alone in this region and resisting contact and cultural exchange with our neighbours in China, Japan or Indonesia, seems dangerously anachronistic. Yet it was enormously popular at the polls. 
As late as 1966 the electors voted overwhelmingly to endorse the Vietnam war and to reject the Australian Labor Party's position. Who would endorse that verdict today? Gough Whitlam was, I think, a man for all seasons, not especially for this one. He made many mistakes. He offended many rich and powerful groups. He was not always easy to work with and he liked to get his own way. The expression that he often used- 'crash through or crash'- is something we often have thought.  His  judgment was not infallible. Nevertheless, in a political Lilliput he was our Gulliver. I believe that all of us, of all political parties, are diminished by his withdrawal from the House. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) Did he urge the adoption of a national energy conservation policy in May 1977, following his return from the United States of America. 
If so, what action has been taken to develop this policy, and, specifically, what consultations have taken place with the States in order to secure their co-operation in conserving energy. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Is it a fact that total absences from Australia for periods in excess of 3 months in the 12 months period immediately preceding the grant of an Australian Citizenship Certificate, are regarded as breaking continuity of residence unless the applicant can establish that special circumstances were associated with the case. 
If so, how many applications have been rejected on the grounds of absences which exceeded 3 months in each year since 1969. 
What special circumstances would be regarded as relevant to set aside the general rule and how are these special circumstances evaluated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What is the total area of land in the Electoral Division of Lalor owned by Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities, including: 
the area and location of each piece of land; 
the controlling authority in each case; 
the purpose for which the land- 
was intended to be used; 
is actually used at present and, 
is intended to be used and; 
the details of rates in respect of each piece of land paid to the relevant local government authority or the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by Professor Peter Karmel, the retiring  Chairman  of the Australia Council, in the last annual report of the Australia Council that many of the nation's artistic treasures are definitely deteriorating and that if the facades of many Government buildings were allowed to deteriorate to the degree that many of the nation 's works of an have deteriorated, there would be a national outcry. 
If so, what is the extent of the problem and will he provide examples of works in urgent need for restoration. 
What action has the Government taken to provide training for expert conservators. 
What action will the Government take to secure the appointment of expert conservators as a matter of urgency. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) What are the plans made under the national sewerage program for the Shire of Werribee, Victoria. 
What length of sewer outfall is at present exposed on the surface. 
How many jobs would be provided in the development of the western purification plant and in undergrounding the sewer outfall. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Did the Treasurer authorise a briefing on the Budget last week for members of the Liberal Party Federal Secretariat? If so, on what basis was this briefing carried out, and on what terms and conditions? If not, can he explain how the Secretariat was able to produce by last night printed public relations kits designed, presumably, to sell this Budget to the Australian public? 
Australians are the victims of a ruthless shakedown over international freight rates. Freight rates for the Australia-Europe run are set by an organisation of London-based shippers called the Outward Continent/ Australia Conference. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  admitted in his answer to question on notice No. 1005, as set out in  Hansard  of 25 May 1978, that Australia has no say in the deliberations for determining inward freight rates for Australia, either through the Australian Shippers Council or the Commonwealth Government. The Conference has a vice-like grip upon freight rates into Australia. It gives a 10 per cent bounty to all freight forwarders who deal exclusively with Conference lines charging Conference rates. Forwarders who deal even in part with nonConference shippers are punished by being denied the benefit of the bounty. This has not led to a 'mutiny on the bounty', but it may lead to a difference between profits and losses for firms. It is very striking that only 2 per cent of imports and exports are carried currently by Australianowned ships. 
As we know, in our trade figures there are things known as 'invisibles'. In the accounts they are divided into three items: Ships' stores, insurance and freight charges. Ships' stores are relatively small and I will not deal here with insurance. However, freight charges ought to be a subject of concern as they vitally affect trade. They should therefore attract the attention of the Government and of the House. I would like to draw attention to the figures kindly provided by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his answer to question No. 1007 on 25 May. The Treasurer points out that in 1976-77, the percentage of invisibles taken up by freight charges was 19.5- that is to say one-fifth of the whole.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the Australian balance of payments statistics and part (3) of the Treasurer's answer to question No. 1007. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Freight on imports paid to non-resident carriers has represented the following proportion of total invisible debits in each of the last five years: 1972-73-14.2 per cent; 1973-74-17.6 per cent; 1974-75-19.7 per cent: 1975-76-16.8 per cent; and 1976-77- 19.5 per cent. 

<graphic href="110131197808170_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The Conference is a simple, old-fashioned cartel, practising the restriction of trade like a classic collusive oligopoly. One might ask why it is that our trade obsessed Government, so keen to lower wage rates for Australian workers in order to reduce domestic costs, sits by and watches the rip-offs imposed by the Outward Continent/Australia Conference which add significantly to the cost of all our imports. In 1973, for example, at the time of the international oil crisis, the Conference added a surcharge to all imports to Australia, claiming that this was due to the uncertainty of oil supplies. This surcharge is still being levied. Why? Again the House ought to know what the Fraser Government is doing about it. Further surcharges are being imposed to provide against currency variations. 
The trend of these surcharges has yet to dwindle. As I said, in 1976-77 the percentage of invisibles taken up by freight charges was 19.5 per cent, or one-fifth. If the Government could take action to reduce this figure, even perhaps by one per cent, it would have significant domestic impact. The Minister for Transport implied in his answer to question No. 1005 given on 25 May that the Government acquiesed in this state of affairs and admitted little involvement in the setting of freight rates into Australia. I am afraid that his answer shows ignorance of the practices of the Conference in maintaining its exclusive control over the Europe-Australia trade. The Fraser Government, by training its guns on the Australian workers, ignores the assault on our economy by the City of London, which dominates the Conference. 
With the advent of container transport, importers rightly expected that there would be a reduction in freight rates. Indeed, freight forwarders offer a full container load FCL discount. This discount should be applied to the cargo charge prior to the application of the currency and bunker, that is to say oil, surcharges. Yet many importers are given the discount after the application of the surcharges, adding to their freight costs, to their prices to Australian consumers and of course to Australia's invisibles account. I think that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is sitting at the table, will have some interest in this matter. Where the importer cannot take advantage of a full container load for his own consignment, the cargo is often consolidated with other cargoes that the continental forwarder has to send. Far from this providing an advantage for the importer, it now provides an excuse for the forwarder not to itemise the charges made so that the importer does not know whether the artificially inflated standard Conference charges have been calculated or even how, if they have been calculated. The Minister for Transport, in his answer to question No. 1004, showed that the Government has not even considered coming to grips with this problem. He said: 
I am not aware of any regulations in force which require freight forwarders to detail charges in invoices to importers. 
This is a substantial and now significant aspect of Australia's trading relationship with the rest of the world. It is becoming a more important part of our balance of payments on current account. This in turn affects the strength of the Australian dollar and the economy. With the investment allowance attracting considerable imports, I wonder how much of the supposed- but in some respects doubtful- benefits of the allowance are eroded by the presently unquantified but undoubtedly substantial price being paid to an unquestioned overseas cartel and to unregulated freight forwarders. If freight forwarders charge less than the Conference rates or if importers make use of non-Conference ships, such as Russian ships, they may be declared black and frozen out. In this respect I would like to take up some specific cases with the responsible Ministers. 
What can be done? I believe this is a matter of great importance, not only for Australian imports and the price we pay for them, but for the balance of the national current trading account and the protection of the national interest against gross exploitation by overseas monopolistic practices. I should point out that Australian shippers and the Australian Government are involved in determining outward freight rates. All I am saying is that that same procedure which obtains for outward freight rates should apply to inward freight rates because of their importance in determining the domestic price of goods. It seems to be an extraordinary anomaly that they operate on exports but not on imports. The Government should declare that this is a case of a serious monopoly practice and it ought to take up the matter immediately with the United Kingdom Government. This is a complex and tricky subject, not clearly understood sometimes even by importers themselves. It is rarely reported and basically ignored, I think, by politicians and financial journalists. Because it is a serious matter, because I think it does affect the value of the dollar and the amount of money we are paying out, and also because it is not fully understood and not fully scrutinised, I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Transport to take it up, to investigate it and to report back to the Parliament. 
-The 1978-79 Budget is morally bankrupt, devoid of vision, lacking the will or capacity to grasp the significance of vast scientific and technological changes which confront Australia, incapable of bridging the social gulf between rich and poor and incapable too of resolving the problems caused by unemployment, the social cancer which hits old and young alike. Treasurers have a unique opportunity to make Budget speeches important social documents. This Budget contains the crudest and meanest form of social Dar.winianism in which the interests of the poor, or socially disadvantaged' as the cliche now is, remains subordinated to that of the rich. What is the social base on which this Budget operates? The Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia, set up by what must now in retrospect seem to have been a great Liberal reforming ministry- the McMahon Government- found that 17.9 per cent of all income units in Australia live in poverty. A research report, entitled  The Economic Circumstances of the Poor,  by  Dr Nripesh  Podder of the University of New South Wales, published by the Commonwealth Government in August 1978, sets out a table on page 34 which estimates the distribution of net worth and assets, broken up into 20 sectors, each of five per cent, ranging from the highest to the lowest.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate tables 4.14 and 4. 1 5 in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808225_58_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197808225_58_8.jpg"></graphic>

-I quote also from what  Dr Podder  stated in the report:  . . the shares of fractiles- 
That is, those 20 units of five per cent each-  in total net worth have been calculated after arranging the families in ascending order of net worth. Again, the shares in total assets have been calculated by rearranging the families in ascending order of assets. Both relative and cumulative proportions of net worth and assets have been presented. The table shows that the top 5 per cent of the families in terms of net worth has 24.6 per cent of total net worth and the top 5 per cent in terms of assets holds slightly more than 22 per cent of total value of assets. At the other end, it is seen that the lowest 20 per cent of families has less than 1 per cent of total net worth. The top 10 per cent of families has 36.5 per cent of total net worth. The bottom 50 per cent of families has about 1 5 per cent of total net worth, which means that the top 50 per cent families has almost 85 per cent of total net worth. However, the distribution of assets does not seem to be so unequal. The bottom 1 5 per cent of families holds 0.5 per cent and the bottom 20 per cent of families holds 1 .2 per cent of total assets. The top 10 per cent of families owns 33 per cent of total assets. The bottom 50 per cent owns 1 9 per cent of total assets while the top 50 per cent owns almost 8 1 per cent of total assets. Thus, assets are more evenly distributed than net worth. 
We might add the words 'but not much'. An article by Phil  Raskall  under the title 'Who's Got What in Australia: The Distribution of Wealth' appeared in the 'Journal of Australian Political Economy, No. 2' of June 1978 contains another table on disproportion in the distribution of wealth. It suggests that one per cent of the population has 22 per cent of the total wealth. I seek leave to incorporate that table also in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="110131197808225_58_9.jpg"></graphic>

-It is true that Australia appears to have a greater degree of economic equality than the United States or the United Kingdom but it is far from being an economic democracy. Another table in the Government's official publication points out that the top 20 per cent of the population has 38.94 per cent of the gross income and even after tax retains 37.68 per cent. The bottom 20 per cent has 6.3 1 per cent of the gross income and 6.77 per cent of the disposable income. I seek leave to incorporate tables 4.4 and 4.5 in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808225_58_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197808225_59_11.jpg"></graphic>

-In Australia wealth, brings power, influence and self-confidence. Although this country follows democratic forms and practices, I suspect that the concept of hierarchy is closer to the Australian way of life than the concept of equality. The rich are able to exercise a domination quite out of proportion to their numbers. Their values dominate the thinking of the Liberal Party. They dominate the economic life of the country. They determine the pattern of employment. They influence the thinking and deeply materialist value systems of the whole community, partly by their total control of the newspapers, radio and television and their domination of the great range of hierarchies which determine the shape of Australian society. Hierarchies dominate every aspect of Australian life- in the political parties, the professions, business, education, commerce, industry, the Public Service and the armed forces. We are not an egalitarian country. Our public policies are protective of the strong and vindictive against the weak. 
There is a strong deference vote in Australia. Many poor people are willing to believe that if anything goes wrong with the economy it is their own fault. Many people believe that it is an act of God or the determination of fate for the poor to be ruled by the rich. The poor are many and weak, lacking confidence in their own capacity. The rich are few and powerful. Think of the pressures to protect the tax evaders. Think of the pressures to abolish death duties even when, at the Federal level, they affect only 5 per cent of estates. Think of the pressures to preserve the privileged public schools at the expense of poor State and parochial schools. Imagine the outcry if Labor proposed a capital gains tax or a capital levy. On the other hand, just think how easy it is to slug the weak. To attack the unemployed is like shooting fish in a barrel. It is so easy to do; it is so morally contemptible to do it, and it is so electorally valuable to do it. 
-Because people like to identify themselves with the strong, the rich and the powerful. The honourable member knows that as well as anyone else. Given his background he probably knows it better than most. We can all remember the bloodlust of the Liberal cry of 'Get the dole bludgers! '. It was a very valuable political cry for the Liberals to make. It won them many votes. This is a very harsh, competitive and materialistic nation and we are passing through a period in which the strongest appeal is to crude self-interest. 
I should also comment on a number of points to which the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  referred. He referred to the changes in Medibank and the fact that a tax surcharge has been introduced. These changes are expressed in this Budget as being for this year only. What will be the situation in 1979-80? Essentially the Government asks this Parliament to accept it on trust. With the reputation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as a teller of truth, who could accept these assurances without anxiety? Essentially they rest on the unsupported word of the Government, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I want to repeat briefly the key argument I advanced in my maiden speech of 23 February, which appears on pages 1 64 to 1 70 of  Hansard. 
-But the honourable member did not understand it. I said that Australia is well into the 'post-industrial society', an era in which the new technology breaks the nexus between productivity and employment, that is, output in many industries will be in inverse proportion, not direct proportion, to the number of people employed. For example, agriculture in the United States is the world's most abundant but it employs the smallest work force proportionately. There is no National Country Party there. 
-That is not a widelyheld view. Nine thousand workers in the Japanese steel industry produce as much as 100,000 steel workers in Great Britain. In Australia, 200 of the largest firms in manufacturing industry produce 50 per cent of 'value added ' but employ only 44 per cent of the work force in manufacturing. Thirty thousand small firms, mostly Australian owned, produce the other 50 per cent of 'value added ' and employ 56 per cent of the manufacturing work force. It seems clear that while government policies such as the provision of generous depreciation allowances reward capital intensity and the imposition of payroll tax punishes labour intensity, we must move towards a condition where the 200 capital intensive firms will produce perhaps 60 per cent or more of 'value added ' and hold perhaps only 40 per cent of the available manufacturing work force. I do not believe that there is anyone in this Parliament who believes that that tendency will be reversed, that the 30,000 small firms will overtake the 'value added ' of the 200 large firms. 
There is no suggestion in this Budget of planning for job creation or even analysing and identifying the areas of growth or decline in future employment areas. I have proposed- I shall briefly mention it again- a five-part analysis of the economic and employment sectors. 
The primary sector involving the pro duction of raw materials. 
The secondary sector involving manufac turing and construction. 
The tertiary sector involving general econ omic services; essentially the processing of matter and energy. 
The quaternary sector involving infor mation processing; essentially the processing of symbols, words, images, figures, symbolic objects and, of course, computer tapes. 
The quinary or quasi-domestic sector in volving the provision of home services or services analogous to domestic services. 
-I thank the honourable member for his perceptive comments. The House might be interested to know that  Dr Colin  Clark, who first divided the economy into three sectors, and Professor Jean Gottman of Oxford, who first proposed the four-part division, now accept and adopt my five-sector analysis. I commend that analysis to the Government. I point out that in the United States information workers have earned more than 50 per cent of all salaries since 1967 and comprise virtually 50 per cent of the work force- in a four-sector analysis. By 1 980, in a four-sector analysis, the information sector will employ as many people as the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors combined. Australia is moving very rapidly in the same direction. 
I want to say something about the nature of the information society into which we are moving. Post-industrial Australia will be an information-based society in which the largest segment of the paid workforce will be engaged in collecting, processing and disseminating data. Much information processing will be done on an individual basis and will remain labour intensive- for example, social work and counselling, much secretarial and office work, research and development. Group work will continue to be extremely important- for example, the relationship of the teacher and a class or of the manager with a small work force. This will remain reasonably labour intensive. However, there is a problem area in mass information services- for example, the collection of vast quantities of data where computers are replacing armies of clerical workers in the Public Service, in banking and insurance and in the dissemination of information through print and electronic media. 
While there is a vast, sometimes exponential, increase in the volume of transactions, labour intensity is being replaced by capital intensity due to technological advances. Two examples can illustrate this. In Massachusetts all recording and retrieval work for all banks is being done by a single computer. In the United States the total volume of printed material published each year has tripled since 1950 but the number of people employed in the printing and allied trades is falling due to computerised typesetting. There is irony in the joke about the micro-electronics company that grew so fast that it had to move into smaller premises. 
Information is a vital and valuable national resource. Access to information is equivalent to access to power. Control of information resources leads to excessive and disproportionate exercise of power by the rich over the poor. Individual freedom and individual efficiency will largely be determined by each person's ability to secure the right information at the right time. Australia is divided into the 'information rich' and the 'information poor' and facilities are remote from those who need them most. There is enormous inequity in 'information transfer' in 
Australia. Information resources of governments and corporations are almost infinite. The resources of individuals, even highly placed ones, are limited. The position of the individual versus the institution is likely to deteriorate rapidly. 
Post-industrialism is not a mere abstraction. It involves major changes to the lives, employment, prosperity and aspirations of us all. As a nation we have adopted the motto 'Out of sight, out of mind' and we are reluctant to face the implications of problems until far too late. If we are to get the best out of post-industrialism in Australia we need a long lead time for planning. The personal impact of post-industrialism will be enormous. To most Australians the two cores of their lives have been the family and work. The Australian family has been the nuclear one, not the Italian style or Japanese style extended or threegenerational one. Our children leave the home as soon as they are able, to begin their own nuclear families. With many Australians in later years, as the family disperses, work may well become the dominant core in males lives. As a result unemployment and retirement have a tragic poignancy in Australia which nothing seems able to fill. The situation of women who leave work for marriage and child rearing only to face years of boredom and isolation after the children are able to look after themselves is probably worse. 
The 'knowledge explosion' poses new problems for people. The vast increase in the production of data of all kinds- in the form of newspapers, television, magazines, books, pop music, computer printouts, promotional and advertising campaigns, and forms to be filled in- may make it harder for many people to feel that they can cope or keep up. This adds to a sense of personal failure, of a condition of aimlessness and rootlessness, sometimes called anomie'- to use Durkheim's word- the condition where people say: 'I do not understand what is going on any more. I feel lost'. Many young people suffer from anomie. They feel that they have been trained in an absolutely useless way in the schools for job situations and opportunities that no longer exist. We have to be careful not to delude ourselves that we only need a bit of 'fine tuning' in the economy and that if we slap on a few band-aids and take a few aspirins all the problems will go away. This is particularly true in the anonymous wasteland of Australia's huge faceless cities. 
If changes in the pattern of work lead to people being compulsorily retired at 55 or unemployable at 25, we should not be surprised if they turn to liquor, drugs, day-time television, the occult, introspection, boredom, emotional paralysis or the Australian Democrats. We must not waste our greatest national resource- people. What can be done? First of all, I think we have to recognise the reality. There is no way in which injecting more funds into manufacturing industry will increase manufacturing industry's sector of the work force. To believe otherwise is a sheer delusion. There is no country in the world where this has happened. All the indications are that the size of the manufacturing work force will fall, and unless we are very careful it will fall rapidly. Second, we need to look very carefully at flexible options for retirement. I would not want to force people to retire early. I would like to think that, if they had the option and wanted to stay on beyond a fixed date, they would be able to do so. 
On a recent parliamentary visit to Japan I was surprised to find that the normal retiring age in industry there is 55. Incidentally, this is not a new figure. It has been 55 basically since the 1920s because, at that stage, the life expectation was only about fifty. A period of 50 years has gone by, and the Japanese have a very much increased expectation of life. They are now the longestlived people in the world, having just beaten the Swedes. They have an expectation of 78 years for women and 73 years for men. But the retirement age, certainly for the privates and noncommissioned officers of Japan's industrial army, is 55 and in some cases 57. 
Third, domestic work should be recognised as a paid economic activity. The result of this might be that many women presently in the work force would choose to remain at home. I do not want to be thought of as a male chauvinist pig. I do not want to see the Government coercing women out of the work force but I think that option should be open to them. Fourth, there should be greater absorption of Australia's young people in fulltime education. Fifth, we need much more emphasis on government as an employment generator. Japan is dedicated to the capitalist ethic but the big businessmen there recognise very clearly the importance of government as an employment generator. They do not run away from that fact. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) How many officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission held the rank of Chief of Division. 
What are the staff numbers supervised by each Chief of Division 
How many Chiefs of Division are there per staff member on average. 
How does the total of Chiefs of Division in the Commission compare with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
5 ) What is the average staff of a CSIRO Division. 
By what factor does the rate of staff per division chief in the AAEC exceed that of CSIRO. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
How are roads classified for the purposes of funding by the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of the roads of the Shire of Werribee, Victoria, fall into each of these categories. 
asked the Minister for Home 
Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Official War Histories published by the Australian War Memorial make no specific references to the trials and executions of indigenes for murder, treason and related crimes during the period of administration of the Australian New Guinea Administration Unit during World War II. 
Is it also a fact that the Australian Archives and the Australian War Memorial do not possess any satisfactory or complete records of these trials, particularly relating to (a) the mode of the trials (i.e. by court martial or civilian court) and who constituted the courts and their qualifications, (b) the length of each trial, (c) the nature of the prosecution evidence and how it was evaluated, (d) the language in which the trials were conducted, (e) whether the accused were given legal representation, (f) whether the accused understood the nature of the offences with which they were charged, (g) whether the trial procedures would have been identical if the accused had been Australian citizens, (h) why the trial proceedings were not referred to Canberra for advice, (i) whether the commutation of 50 to 60 death sentences in 1 945 had an adverse effect on the prosecution of the war effort, and (j ) why the incidents have been unrecorded by historians and other writers on the period. 
Will he take steps to fill in this gap in the collective national memory by directing the collection of oral or written information for the national archives from persons with direct or indirect knowledge of the incidents referred to, including Lieutenant-General  Sir Edmund  Herring,  Sir Horace  Niall,  Mr Justice  David Selby,  Sir John  Guise, the former  Mr Justice  Ben Dunn,  Sir John  Kerr, formerly of the Army's Directorate of Civilian Affairs,  Sir Philip  Strong, formerly Bishop of New Guinea, Captain Russell Smith and surviving officers of the 1st Australian Army or ANGAU. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1 978: 
1 ) Further to the answers to Question Nos 33 1 and 879  (Hansard,  15 April 1978, page 1076 and 4 May 1978, page 1873) is there any record in the Australian Archives or the Australian War Memorial of (a) trials alleged to have occurred in the areas of (i) Samarai/Milne Bay, (ii) Aitape, (iii) Lae, (iv) Rabaul and (v) Port Moresby which resulted in the hanging of many New Guineans for murder and/or rape and (b) any other trials which led to the imposition or execution of the death sentence on New Guinea indigenes by the Australian New Guinea Administration Unit. 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement on page 1 1 of the Melbourne  Sun  of 8 May 1 978 in which Captain Russell Smith is reported as saying that he was refused permission to see glued-up documents at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra, relating to trials of New Guineans; if so, will he ascertain if the documents are still in existence. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Will he ascertain and advise if, as reported in the  Age  of 12 May 1978, secret wartime records of the Australian New Guinea Administration Unit and the private papers of the late  Sir Donald  Cleland, formerly Chief of Staff of ANGAU, indicate that in the 20 months to September 1943 there were 349 convictions for murder. 
In how many of these convictions (a) did death sentences result, (b) was the death sentence carried out and (c) was the sentence referred to the Australian Government. 
-The post industrial chickens are coming home to roost. The Government's catastrophic blunder is that it attempts to deal with the Telecom dispute in complete isolation. It cannot deal with, nor does it understand, the wider context. With aU the finesse of a mad bull in a glassworks the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has blundered into what must surely be the first of a long series of industrial disputes based on the new technology. The Government is determined to have an industrial showdown, and the words of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  who has just resumed his seat, confirm that. It has shown a complete incapacity to grasp that this is only the first of a long series of inevitable disputes about the new technology and job displacement. The situation is totally new to Australia and it cannot be dealt with by employing the formulas which have been used in past industrial disputes. Union bashing should be firmly rejected. We need to follow the advice of IBM- the Prime Minister has been very susceptible to IBM-'Think'. 
The Telecom dispute is only the tip of the iceberg. It is only a matter of months, not years, before we will have a long series of disputes in areas where the new technology will displace jobs. Banking is an obvious example. I mentioned in this House the other night that in Massachusetts one computer is doing all the retrieving and recording work for all banks. That means that white collar jobs in that area will go, and they will go with dramatic suddenness. Unless we work out a comprehensive work force policy, what is the Telecom dispute today will be the dispute in the banks tomorrow- not just in the Commonwealth Bank but in the private banks as well. Broadly speaking the same is true in the insurance industry where it is possible for tens of thousands of transactions to be carried out not by the use of a whole army in the work force but by just a handful of people operating computers. Similarly in the Public Service the use of the Mandata system will result in a very substantial reduction in the number of people in employment at a very time when we need to generate new employment, not discourage it. 
Similarly in retailing, many honourable members will have noticed the recent introduction of the striped Universal Product CodeUPC. That is the first step in the displacement of tens of thousands of employees in retailing. It is possible for computers to compute the exact size of everybody's grocery bill much more quickly, much more economically and much more precisely than the human being who will be displaced. Similarly, typesetting in newspaper production is another area where there Will be a very dramatic falling off in the number of people who need to be employed. In the United States of America it is possible, through the use of computer technology, to typeset newspapers in 30 States from a single linotype. 
-' Good ', says the honourable member for Holt. I do not disagree. Let it be good, providing that the people can be replaced somewhere else, that they can find other more agreeable things to do with their lives. That is fine. If the new technology is an instrument of liberation, enabling them to do other things, to fill their life span more usefully, that is splendid. But if on the other hand the tendency is just to throw them out of work, to put them on the scrap heap, then it is something to be feared and something that we need to work out very carefully. We have never rejected the new technology. What we say is that we have to have hand-in-hand with it a comprehensive labour force policy. Teaching is another area which is threatened by the new technology. It will be very easy to have lessons taught and material dealt with and processed centrally so that students can have individually programmed lessons. By doing that, if we want to do it, we can bypass the very large labour force that makes up the teaching profession at the moment. 
-The honourable member for Calare says that it might be better. He may well be right. But we have to understand the consequences of doing it. If we understand what the consequences are, let us go ahead, but let us not go planning the new technology first and then say, as Telecom has: 'We have committed ourselves to $2 billion in the new technology but we did not think of the job displacement implications'. What is needed is a national work force policy to be worked out at the highest level in consultation with the trade union movement, commerce and industry, and the Australian Labor Party, and with a leading part taken by the Government. The Government must be the great initiator. It can be worked out only on a cooperative basis. It cannot be worked out on the basis of Indian wrestling where the side which has the most muscle wins the contest. Unless we have a national work force policy this country can have its guts ripped out by industrial confrontation. We have to recognise the price that we may have to pay for the new technology. People take some time to grasp new ideas. Sometimes a lead time of some years is needed. 
I first began talking about the problems of the post-industrial society six years ago in the Victorian Parliament, but I suspect that many people who heard me then did not have a very clear understanding of what I was talking about. Even in this Parliament I suspect that there are some members- like the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)-  who still do not have the very faintest idea and do not begin to grasp the implications of post-industrialism. The Telecom dispute illustrates very clearly that postindustrialism is right with us. We need to work out appropriate policies to enable us to make the best, not the worst, of the new technology. The telecommunications industry has always been a pacesetter in technological change. It is estimated that if innovations such as automatic switching services and now computerised operations had not been introduced, by the year 1978 the growth of telephone services would have absorbed the entire Australian female population between the ages of 18 years and 45 years to run the system. It is very easy for the Prime 
Minister- he is ably abetted by some of his cohorts on the back benches- to secure cheap headlines by declaring war on an isolated section of the work force, saying that Telecom workers are the enemy and all the rest of the community is being disadvantaged by what is happening in Telecom. 
I point out that every majority is made up of a coalition of minorities. I marvel at the temerity of a member of the National Country Party to say that minorities should not exert an influence out of proportion to their size. That is an extraordinary thing to come from the National Country Party. It was extraordinary to hear the tribute made to the telephone girls and to hear what a good job they were doing. It is the very job of the telephone girls that is threatened. That is what it is all about. It is important that we do not try to bring about this sense of confrontation by inviting the whole community to gang up against the minority. Telecom is just the first cab off the rank. Where the Telecom workers are today the bank officers will be tomorrow and the insurance workers will be the day after. 
Indeed, this very Parliament is a perfect example of an institution which could be computerised in the interests of cost efficiency. We do not really need to have those 80 or so Government members trooping in here. All the Minister at the table needs to do is to produce a pocket computer, hold it up and say: 'It is all right; I have the numbers here'. We do not really need those members trooping in here. Some day, somebody will come along and say: 'All those politicians have to be fed, they have to travel long distances and they have to be paid salaries. Would it not be better in the interests of cost efficiency to computerise the whole operation?' I suspect that a few members of the Government would welcome it but I suspect that there are many who would not like to have Malcolm Fraser 's finger on the button. It is the old Roman technique of divide and rule. The Prime Minister isolates Telecom's employees and invites employees in all other industries to side against them. 'If your business falls off', he tells us, 'it is the Telecom workers who are to blame'. But if in 12 months it is the bank employees who are on strike we will hear the same speech. The Government will say: 'We know who is to blame for the industrial upheaval at the moment. It is the bank workers'. It could be the insurance workers, the teachers or the people involved in retailing- all of whom could be threatened by this change. Cheap headlines may help the Prime Minister to secure a cheap victory but will only delay the need to face up to the necessity for a national work force policy. 
None of us have easy solutions. All of us have a responsibility to understand the nature of the problem first and then to start to work out in consultation, not in confrontation, appropriate policy. Post-industrialism means that things can never be the same again. One cannot go back to the formulas of the 1960s and find some magic form of words that will resolve the problem. It is not an issue where there is a monopoly of wisdom on one side. We are all in degrees of comparative ignorance because we are dealing with a situation that we have never had to face before. The trade union movement and even- I blush to say- my own party to some extent have failed in some measure to grasp all the implications of post-industrial change. Things have overtaken us. But we are in a better position than the Government. The Government has never understood this change and the Government has never wanted to understand it. I first talked about this problem to the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  about eight years ago. I remember grabbing him at an airport and suggesting that he read a number of books that I recommended on the subject. In his speech tonight there was no suggestion that he had read the books. If he had read them he certainly did not understand them. 
-I think the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has some record as a student. I am prepared to give him the same list. He may read the books. But no one on the Government side who has spoken tonight could be accused of taking the long view in this matter, and this is something on which we have to take the long view. Earlier this evening the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  spoke about his visit to Japan. I was also in Japan in July and I was very struck by the extent to which the Japanese have recognised and acknowledged the significance of post-industrial change in the electronics industry. The honourable member for Robertson, some other honourable members and I went to National Electronics. We noted there that the Japanese had adopted the new technology but they had considered the human factors as well. For example, some people who, frankly, were described as 'window gazers' were working for National and many other firms. The Japanese had simply said: 'We recognise that these people cannot be employed because the new technology is cheaper and displaces them but we do not mind keeping them on the payroll because we are concerned that if they are put on the scrap heap and unemployment grows enormously there will be a falling off in demand and that will be more serious in its implications to the economy than keeping them on the payroll as window gazers'. I suspect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you may have some views about this matter. 
-They are there in a sense as emergency workers in case anything goes wrong. There is retirement at 55 years of age. The most complex tasks are computerised and automated and the tasks being done by people are in fact the less complex tasks. The Japanese could reduce employment in the major firms overnight if they wanted to but they do not do it. Fred Emery of the Australian National University has suggested that if industry in Australia really wanted to go flat out and computerise it could reduce the work force in the manufacturing industry by two-thirds. The cost-benefit merchants on the other side of the House would probably say: 'Go ahead and do it. That is a wonderful idea'. But we have to think of the human problem. We have to think about the two-thirds who are displaced. We know that that is intolerable, that it is unthinkable. What I am saying is that we have to think about this matter. Do not rush into cheap, facile, apparent solutions. Think of the implications of what is happening. Think of the implications of postindustrialism and do not rush into something which will be the first of a long series of irreversible confrontations that could rip the guts out of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 August, 1978: 
1 ) Has a loan or grant been made for the construction of home units for old people in Yea, Victoria, on a site in Francis Street. 
If so (a) to whom was the grant made, (b) was it a grant or a loan and (c) are there any terms or conditions attached to the loan or grant. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) What conditions apply to the payment of the age pension overseas. 
What changes have been made to these rules since January 1974. 
Are potential age pensioners being prevented from returning to Australia to qualify by residence for the pension. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the former Commonwealth lands in the New Hebrides which were formally transferred to a Lands Trust Board on 14 June 1973 have not yet been returned to the indigenous New Hebridean people. 
) Is it also a fact that the Lands Trust Board which was established to enable these former Australian land holdings to be used by the people of the New Hebrides has now been disbanded and that the previous expatriate occupiers of the land are continuing in possession of it. 
If the position is as stated and as it is now more than 5 years since the Australian Government made this transfer, will he raise this question with the relevant authorities in the New Hebrides with a view to ensuring that the former Commonwealth land shall, in future, be used for the benefit of the people of the New Hebrides. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
What changes have been made in the use and ownership of the Commonwealth lands in the New Hebrides which were transferred to a Land Trust Board on 1 4 June 1 973. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) What charge is levied on students for laundry at the RAAF Apprentice School at Laverton, Victoria. 
How many washers and dryers are provided for the apprentices for this purpose. 
How many washers and dryers were functioning on (a) 1 March 1978, and (b) 1 May 1978. 
How many washers do these figures represent per capita for the school. 
Is it a fact that apprentices have repaired these machines at their own expense. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) Are servicemen now entitled to take long service leave when it falls due. 
) If not, will servicemen be taxed under the new Budget provision for the taxation of accumulated long service leave. 
Will servicemen be exempted from being taxed in this way, in view of their limited choice in the time at which they may take their entitlement. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) On what date was the interdepartmental committee established to investigate allegations that large numbers of Papua New Guineans were residing in the Torres Strait and North Queensland. 
What departments and authorities are represented on it and which department provides the  chairman. 
What are its terms of reference. 
When is it expected or required to report. 
Will its report be tabled in the Parliament. 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Is it a fact that in the last weeks of 1975 a member of the staff of the Minister, who then occupied the office of Treasurer, telephoned a Treasury officer to tell him that the Minister had a particular interest in an application by the American Housing Corporation Ltd to buy a building in Brisbane from QBE Insurance Ltd? Did the Foreign Investment Review Board in Treasury approve the application? Is the departmental file relating to this matter now missing from the Treasury? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Will he table the file in question and, in particular, will he table a record of a conversation which took place in the last weeks of 1975 between  Mr Andrew  Hay of the then Treasurer's office and  Mr Pyman  of the Foreign Investment Review Board indicating the interest of the then Treasurer in a transaction involving the sale of a building belonging to QBE Insurance Ltd to the American Housing Corporation Ltd? 
-When I heard the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  I could not decline the challenge. 
-Many things that the Deputy Prime Minister said I do not necessarily disagree with. Of course it is very important that the rural sector of Australia should have proper services because, as I argued very recently in a paper on job absorption, if we are to tackle the problem seriously one possible way would be to reverse the tendency towards concentrating population in cities. It is difficult to be other than sceptical about decentralisation because, as we all know, there is a very strong urban tradition in Australia, going back to its foundation. We rank with Japan as the two most urbanised countries in the world. In Australia 60 per cent of our population live in 6 urban districts. 
If we are to solve the problem of unemployment it may be necessary to attempt at times to reverse the economies of scale. As Adam Smith first pointed out, there are economies of scale where there is a comparatively small number of people concentrated in one area producing large amounts of goods. It may be necessary to reverse economies of scale and to have more people producing fewer goods. If we are to absorb the potential work force it may be necessary to do much more about decentralising and attempting to spread the population. In other words, the job  opportunities in, say, 25 cities with 100,000 people each are likely to be very much greater than the job opportunities in one city of 2,500,000 people. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot very perceptively asks: What if the people don't want to move?'. Exactly. What I was saying is that I think that the urban tradition in Australia is so strongly established that it will be extremely difficult to get them to move. That is why I think that decentralisation, which is certainly one way of spreading development throughout the country, realistically has little chance of being carried out. What concerned me was the assertion of the  Deputy  Prime Minister that the most important factor in determining the Budget was the question of business confidence. Of course it is a factor but it is not the only factor. There are two contrasting value systems which have developed in Australia. One is essentially based on a competitive view of the economy and the other is based on a co-operative view. The view of the Government parties, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, is essentially that life is a struggle for resources; that life is essentially competitive; that there are winners and losers; that, broadly speaking, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party represent life 's winners and the Labor Party essentially represents life's losers, the battlers in this economy. I believe that very firmly. I would like to illustrate this point and dwell on it for just a few moments. As I did not know I would be speaking in this debate until about two minutes ago I did not have the opportunity to ask the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who is sitting at the table, whether I could have some material incorporated in  Hansard.  However, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short paper on the basic differences in emphasis between the two major Australian political parties which I have called Them and us/us and them'. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="110131197809146_46_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_47_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_47_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_48_10.jpg"></graphic>

-The Budget which is before us and to which an amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  illustrates the fact that the policies of the Budget are not aimed at spreading the resources of this community more equitably. I want to talk very briefly about the major objections that I have to the Budget and why I am happy to support the amendment. The Budget lacks credibility. Let us not forget that there has never been a Budget with so many leaks beforehand. 
-There was never an example under the Labor Government of leaks of this magnitude. It was possible by reading newspapers and by looking at the kit that obviously was prepared by the Liberal Party secretariat for the benefit of members of the Liberal Party before the Budget was presented to this House to realise that everything in the Budget was well known, that it had been discussed and that it had been leaked. Every single point to which we object had been leaked. There was no confidentiality about it at all. 
It is also a Budget which challenges the credibility and integrity of the Government. First of all, it is a Budget based on broken promises. We were told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that Medibank would not be scrapped, that it would be retained. What we are now told, of course, is that Medibank Standard is now kaput; it has been destroyed. Everything that was predicted in the newspapers in fact came to pass. The newspapers were absolutely correct. The predictions about the dropping of sales tax  on new  vehicles and the increases in the price of petrol, cigarettes, beer and spirits were all correct. There has been a complete lack of integrity on the part of the Government that produced this Budget. Everything was leaked beforehand. It is the great leaking Budget. The second major thing that I find objectionable about the Budget is that it lacks any indication of a capacity to see 
Australia's economic situation in a broad context. 
-Never more so than with Tasmania. It is a shortsighted, short term Budget. Let us look at the things that are not in the Budget Papers. First of ali, there is no reference to a national energy policy. This is not surprising because there is none. 
-A few noises were made the other day by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  What I am concerned about is that there has never been a document on a national energy policy prepared and presented to this Parliament that we can examine and debate. There is no national energy policy. We also asked for a national resources policy. Where is it? Where is the basis for the allocation of resources? It has never been given to us. 
-That was my next point. The honourable member for Adelaide is absolutely correct. Where is the national manpower policy? Where are these jobs that were spoken of a few minutes ago? In what areas will they be created? As I have said so often in the House, there is no vestige of a national manpower policy which indicates plans for tackling the problems of post-industrialism and the problems created largely by technical change which will lead to job displacement first in manufacturing and then in the service industry. There has been nothing in this respect because this intellectually bankrupt Government has not really thought out the implications at all. 
Fourthly, there is no reference to the current inequalities in the distribution of wealth. The Budget imposes gross inequalities of sacrifice. I spoke about this subject in my first speech on the Budget and I do not want to go into detail about it in talking on the amendment. The whole Budget is an exercise in cynicism based on half truths. For example, the basis for the restructuring of Medibank is that benefits would be paid on standard fees, that is, that the Commonwealth would pay up to 40 per cent from revenue and the consumer can insure for an additional 35 per cent leaving him to cough : p 25 per cent at the time of the service. Bli. as honourable members know, a recent survey in Victoria indicated that only half the number of doctors in that State were charging standard fees. So lower income earners above the poverty line are likely to be disadvantaged. 
The temporary tax increase of 1.5 per cent is designed to hit the middle and lower middle income earners more than the rich. This is because the increase had to be set against the famous tax cuts which operated from 1 February 1978. These February 1978 cuts have now been eliminated for those earning between $120 and $240 a week, and even despite the  Vi  per cent surcharge the rich will still get very substantial savings. 
One of the tragedies- exemplified very clearly in the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister- was that the problem of unemployment, and in some way even the problem of productivity, is seen purely in an Australian context. Of course it is essential that we have regard to the affairs of our own country first. But one would think in listening to the kind of patter that comes from Government Ministers that in some way the economic problems that we have were unique to Australia, that they did not occur in any other country and that they were in some peculiar way introduced into the whole world uniquely by the Whitlam Government. We are left with the impression that if it had not been for the Whitlam Government the economies of the Western World would have no problems at all; that it all dates back to the Whitlam Government. This is a dangerously simplistic point of view. I think that it is essential that we demythologise a lot of our thinking on many economic subjects, that we do not see things purely in Australian terms and that we have regard to the experience of countries with comparable economies, and member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are good examples of this. I think that it is a tragedy that this Budget does nothing to encourage public sector employment. 
-' Good' says the honourable member for St George. That is an extraordinarily simplistic view. Several honourable members have spoken during the Budget debate about their recent experiences in Japan. Those of us who went to Japan were left with a number of abiding impressions. One of them is the unanimity of the view that one must make the best use of government as an employment generator, that one cannot simply say: 'Look, there is private enterprise over here and government over there and we want to keep them as far separate as we can '. That is regarded as nonsensical. It is conceded that in many ways the greatest single generator of employment and of development in many areas will be the government. 
-The community as a whole pays for it. 
-That is absolutely correct. It pays for it through taxation because taxation is or at least ought to be one of the great instruments for the redistribution of wealth. This Budget completely ignores the impact of technology. This is not being done in Japan. That country is very well aware of this factor. 
I think, too, that the other tragedy of this Budget is that it recognises that there are enormous gaps and discrepancies in the level of wages earned in Australia and it wants to avoid any movement towards the redistribution of wealth. The real reason why the Whitlam Government was destroyed in 1975 was that it was the first government within living memory which attempted any form of redistribution of wealth. That was the failure of the Whitlam Government in the eyes of its opponents. That is why it can never be forgiven- for attempting a redistribution of wealth. 
I conclude by saying that I believe that not nearly enough is being done for disadvantaged areas such as the western suburbs of Melbourne or the south-western suburbs of Sydney. In many areas like my electorate, where there are huge numbers of people whose mother tongue is not English, not nearly enough is being done to provide services. In my own electorate, in the heartland of St Albans- an area covered by the St Albans Community Health Centre- we find that 34 per cent of the population is Yugoslav, 32 per cent Maltese, 12 per cent Greek, 10 per cent Italian, 2 per cent German, one per cent Polish, one per cent Russian, one per cent Ukrainian, 0.75 per cent Czechoslovakian and 6.25 per cent British and other nationalities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has he received representations from the Western Region Commission in Melbourne for an increase in the general purpose grants to local government, under the Government's income tax sharing scheme. 
What was the amount of the increase sought in percentage terms and what action does he propose to take. 
I agree with virtually all the points made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  I should point out also that we ought to do much more than we are doing with the adjournment debates. One of the things we could do is to broadcast adjournment debates. It is now nearly six months since the parliamentary committee on broadcasting agreed unanimously that we ought to broadcast debates but as yet nothing has happened. This matter was once on the notice paper but now it is not even dignified by being placed on the notice paper. 
-Let the House debate it and we can reach a decision on it. I want to talk briefly about a very important subject; the need for a national information policy. I have spoken about this before but I want to direct the House to a very important article by Professor Daniel Bell, 'Teletext and Technology', which appears in the July 1977 edition  of Encounter.  'The windmill gives you society with the feudal lord; the steam-mill, society with the industrial capitalist', wrote Karl Marx in  The Poverty of Philosophy.  The development of modern information technology, based and shaped by computers, electronic communication and entertainment, satellites and many other devices will inevitably lead to basic changes in general patterns of thought, in specific fields of analysis, such as economics, political science and sociology and in the changing nature of economic and social activity. It has been estimated that 'in the United States, if information, broadly defined, accounts for almost 50 per cent of the gross national product, then some coherent national policy is in order'. In Australia the information industry employed 27.5 per cent of the work force in 1 97 1 and 30.2 1 per cent by 1977. The essential element of the information processing, or quaternary sector is that it involves the processing of symbols such as words, images, computer data, figures or symbolic objects which stand in the place of tangibles, such as money, cheques, bank statements or title deeds and includes such categories as teachers, clerical workers, communications workers, lawyers, artists, politicians and so on. 
Since World War II there has been an exponential growth on the volume of information churned out and in the technical capacity of science to store, sort, retrieve or transmit information. I commend honourable members to Georges Anderla's  Information in 1985. A Forecasting Study of Information Needs and Resources  published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris in 1973. This estimates that two million scientific documents were published in the year 1970-that is to say, between 6,000 and 7,000 articles each working day- and that eight million per year is a conservative estimate for 1985. Even the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  would find difficulty in catching up with that. Information is now measured in kilobits or megabits. The 'bit' is the smallest unit of information. It is the unit used for measuring information stored in computers. The 'bi' at the beginning comes from 'binary' and the 't' at the end comes from the word 'unit'. As Daniel Bell points out: 
During any manned space flight, there is data transmission at the rate of 52 kilobits per second, the equivalent of an  Encyclopaedia Britannica  every IS minutes. Between 1961 and February 1974 there were 318 days of manned space flights. How many encyclopaedias does that make? 
American mathematicians estimate that about 200,000 new theorems are published each year in mathematical journals. 
We have to understand the changing nature of the information revolution. It is about time we had a national information policy. I conclude with just a few words from Bell. He says: 
The clock, with its sixty pulsed seconds to the minute and the sixty phased minutes to the hour, is the symbol of the industrial economy. The computer, equally, is the time symbol of the post-industrial world. Computer time is a conceit; it is called oddly, real time, which means virtually 'instantaneously'. Nanoseconds are the minutest portion of computer time. Electric signals go through computer wiring almost at the speed of light, about a thousand feet per microsecond, or one foot per nanosecond. A thousand million nanoseconds make a clock second, or about the same number of clock seconds as there are in thirty years. In the present large-size computers, it takes about fifty nanoseconds to process one 'bit' of information. In that context, what is the meaning of the division of time . . . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
How many Japanese were (a) tried, (b) sentenced to death and (c) executed in (i) the Northern Territory and (ii) New Guinea during the years 1 945 to 1 948, inclusive. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact, as stated by  Mr Doug  Jennings, MLA, in the document tabled in the Victorian Parliament last week that, during 1975,  Mr Jennings  presented to the Minister information which 'proved beyond doubt that a racket had been worked' in land deals at Melton and Sunbury? Is it also a fact, as stated by  Mr Jennings,  that the Minister replied that this was a State matter and he did not wish to be involved in it? 
I wrote to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  tonight to advise him that I intend to raise on the adjournment tonight a matter concerning him. I would be interested to know whether the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  did the same with respect to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The matter I wish to raise concerns the Minister's dealing in home units on the Gold Coast- more specifically the extraordinarily generous terms he received from QBE Insurance Ltd on a $79,000 loan to finance the purchase last year of the Minister's home unit in the Golden Gate development at Surfers Paradise. There are two major points. 
-The facts are these: In November 1977 during the election campaign the Minister was forced - 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I point out that the imputations being made in the present instance by the honourable member for Lalor do not reflect kindly on the Minister about whom he speaks. I believe that this whole speech, the way it is turning out, should be ruled completely out of order. 
-In November 1 977 during the election campaign the Minister was forced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to resign as Treasurer. 
When two or more Members rise together to speak the  Speaker  shall call upon the Member who, in his opinion, first rose in his place; 
I have been present in the chamber since the beginning of the debate,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have been first on my feet every time. 
-The purchase of the home unit was on the basis of a loan on extraordinarily favourable terms to the Minister. Firstly, it was a high loan-to-security ratio of 83 per cent, whereas more usual sources of loan funds for this purpose such as banks and finance companies - 
All imputations of improper motives and allMr  DEPUTY  SPEAKER-There is no point of order. I have already ruled on that point. 
-Secondly, the terms of the 1 5-year loan allowed the Minister to pay only interest during the first three years and then 47 quarterly payments of $750 each over the following 12 years. I seek leave of the House to table and incorporate in  Hansard  the mortgage documents. 
Could I raise a point of order? Before my time expired I sought leave of the House to table and incorporate in  Hansard  a bill of mortgage. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I seek leave now to table and incorporate in  Hansard  the document? 
Could I seek your indulgence,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) With reference to the answer given by the Minister for Administrative Services to question No. 644  (Hansard,15  August 1978, page 305), how many persons are employed on the 499.364 hectare site at the Deer Park Explosives Factory. 
What products in what quantities are produced by the factory. 
What is the value of the factory's product for each of the last5 years. 
Are there other similar factories in Australia and what is the scale of their operations. 
What use is made of the 262.5373 hectares in the Derrimut Magazine area. 
How many persons are employed in the area. 
What is the building floor area, and what percentage of it is being used. 
Is alternative storage technology available to obviate the use of space for containment. 
I seek to move a procedural motion. I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Lalor- 
moving a motion questioning the relationship of the Minister for Industry and Commerce with QBE Insurance, and 
tabling a copy of the Bill of mortgage dated 5 July 1977, 

 -Mr Speaker, yesterday I wrote to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in these terms - 
-I produce the document, and if it is appropriate for me to table it I will do so. It is a rather lengthy document to have incorporated into  Hansard. 
asked the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the following question without notice: 
Following the last question on this subject to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what further representations have been made to the Government of Pakistan about the trial of  Mr Zulfikar  Ali Bhutto and the death sentence imposed on him. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What is the annual cost to (a) Ansett Airlines and ( b) TAA of providing taped music on takeoff and landing. 
Since airline passengers are not compelled to smoke, eat or drink during flights, why must they be compelled to listen to pre-programmed music. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What restrictions are placed on financial assistance made under the States Grants (Home Care) Act for the employment of welfare officers. 
Have any restrictions caused inflexibility and difficulties in municipal social welfare departments if so, how many councils have complained of the problem. 
Will the Minister consider amending these restrictions to allow more flexible use of staff employed under the assistance provided under the Act. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to the statement by the then Minister for Supply on 14 September 1972 that 'the radioactive material present in these areas'- that is, Maralinga and the Woomera controlled area- 'has, in the main, a half life of some 15 or 20 years'? Has the Minister been advised that the plutonium 239 stored at Maralinga, of which he says there is in total some 20 kilograms, has a half life of approximately 24,400 years? Does the Minister know why the Parliament and the Australian people were misled by his Government colleague, who is now the Minister for Special Trade Representations? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
When will the appointment of the Secretary-General and Executive Officer of the National Aboriginal Conference be announced. 
What role does the Conference play in the formulation of Government policies on Aboriginal affairs. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. 
-In today's edition of the  Australian Financial Review,  in Mungo MacCallum 's column 'From the Gallery' under the headline 'Labor's Maralinga attack very non-nuclear', the following paragraph appears: 
The Opposition's attack was decidedly less than nuclear. The first indication that it would be so was when the member for Labor - 
Actually, that should read 'Lalor'- 

 Mr Barry Jones (who has been complaining privately that he would much rather take over a more philosophical and less aggressive role than that which has been handed to him this session) asked  Mr Killen  about a statement made in 1972, which adduced that the half life of the majority of the waste was some 1 5 to 20 years. 
I wish to make it clear that I have not been complaining privately or publicly that I would much rather take a more philosophical and less aggressive role than that which has been handed to me this session. What I have been complaining about privately to journalists, and wrote about in an article in last Sunday's  Canberra Times  entitled 'How can we get the media to look beyond the trivialities?', is that the media is inclined to report material at length when it involves personal attack or criticism and is inclined to ignore the reporting of complex examination of basic philosophical or economic concepts such  as the conflict of value systems. This may have a serious effect in that it may discourage honourable members from talking about complex issues because we tend to live or die politically on the basis of the media coverage which we generate. Temperamentally, I have an aggressive side and a philosophic side. I am not a conscientious objector so far as dropping buckets is concerned although I like to keep my aggression under control. 
-I conclude by saying that the Parliament is ill served when the more serious thoughtful side of our work is consistently ignored. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What representations have been made by the Australian Government to the Government of Pakistan about the death sentence passed on  Mr Z.  A Bhutto, formerly  President,  Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Pakistan. 
What assurances have been made about the possibility of a commutation of the sentence of death. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the current relative differential between medium term borrowing rates in Australia and in the United States of America. 
What was the forward margin, expressed as a percentage per annum, for buying US dollars in Australia as at (a) January 1977, (b) July 1977, (c) January 1978 and (d) April 1978. 
Who sets the forward margins for Australians buying US dollars. 
Is it a fact that the Reserve Bank had been pushing down forward margins on the purchase of US dollars below the relative differential in interest rates in the United States of America and Australia. 
If so, does this have the effect of pushing the value of the Australian dollar towards parity with the US dollar. 
Is it anticipated that this will result in the establishment of an open foreign exchange market in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
1 ) Did B. T. Grade, D.F.M.. formerly a Sergeant in the RAAF, and whose services were dispensed with as from 1 1 August 1978, make application for compassionate transfer to the Sydney area. 
If so, was the application refused and what was the reason for the refusal. 
Did the Defence Force Ombudsman,  Mr D.  O. Hay, CB E., advise Sergeant Grade on 18 November that such a request, i.e. for compassionate transfer, would receive prompt and sympathetic consideration. 
Did Sergeant Grade's application receive prompt and sympathetic attention. 
Did Sergeant Grade submit an application for redress of grievance and ask for back-dated promotion to the rank of Flight Sergeant. 
Was Sergeant Grade directed by the Chief of the Air Staff to desist with his complaints and accept the finding of independent arbitration. 
Was his last application for redress of grievance subject to an independent investigation and/or arbitration; if so, (a) who carried out the investigation, (b) was Sergeant Grade called as a witness on his own behalf and (c) was he permitted to call evidence or to have representation; if not, why not. 
I raise for the consideration of the House and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  the question of the non-appointment of  Mr David  Anderson as the first Secretary-General of the National Aboriginal Conference.  Mr Anderson,  a Victorian, is an Aboriginal. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in anthropology and sociology from Monash University. He was an elected member of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee from 1973 to 1977 and executive member for information and communications in 1 976-77. He is currently a lecturer in Aboriginal Affairs and Sociology at Christ College, which is part of the State College of Victoria in Melbourne. I have known him well, as I think has the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  since 1972, and would have considered him very well qualified for appointment as the Secretary-General of NAC. 
The chronology of this curious nonappointment is that the job was advertised on 27 May. On 12 June David Anderson submitted an application giving his home address as 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock, 3193, and his work address as Christ College, State College of Victoria.  His  application was acknowledged on 14 June. On 8 August the NAC executive held a meeting that was presided over by the Acting Administrator,  Mr Gregory  McNamara of the Public Service Board. A tape recording was made of the proceedings. It was quite a long tape because the meeting went through all the people who were short listed. The significant part of the transcript is that part where  Mr McNamara  says of the applicants: 
Others withdrew because of commitments or other prior job positions, job applications which they had. A couple were disappointed because they did withdraw. 
I am quoting literally; obviously there is something wrong with the transcription. The transcript reads further: 
One person, David Anderson, of Black Rock in Victoria, was contacted; however David is  overseas  and obviously, because of the terms of reference of filling the position, cannot be contacted. That was one disappointing aspect. 
The reality of the situation was that  Mr Anderson  was never overseas and assures one that he was never contacted. On 3 1 August, at a meeting of the Aboriginal Advancement League, he met some people who told him that, on grounds of his being overseas, he had not been appointed. On 13 September he received in the mail two letters both dated 6 August- that is to say, it had taken something like six weeks for the letters to come from Canberra to his address at Black Rock. Both were formal letters saying that unfortunately he had simply not been appointed or not been considered.  His  assertion is that he was never spoken to, never approached, never called in to an interview, although I would have thought that of all the applicants he was obviously the one best qualified in every regard. 
I would like these questions which I raise to be answered by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is at the table: Was a letter or telegram sent or a telephone call made to David M. Anderson to give him the opportunity to be interviewed for the NAC positions? If not, why not? Who appointed  Mr McNamara  of the Public Service Board to act as co-ordinator to the NAC? What are  Mr McNamara  's qualifications? Why did  Mr McNamara  inform the NAC secretariat positions selection panel that David Anderson was overseas and could not get back in time and had been given every opportunity but had not responded to attempts to contact him? Can  Mr McNamara  produce any proof that he received any such information from or about David Anderson? Is it not true that the NAC panel wished to have an Aboriginal person fill the position of Secretary-General and considered  Mr Anderson  to be the only suitable applicant? I quote from a transcript of the deliberations of the selection panel: 
He is the only Aboriginal we've got in Australia today with the qualifications of that top position. 
Is it not true that it was only because of his supposed absence from the country that the position was offered instead to another person, a nonAboriginal person? I think this is a very serious matter and I would be grateful if the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs would make an appropriate response. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that audit statements of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation from 1959 to 1977 all show profits; if so, why has the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence stated that the Organisation is being shut down because of repeated losses. 
Are there any other reasons for closing down the Organisation. 
Why has Parliament not been given any detailed explanations of the decision to wind up this $45m per year enterprise, while the staff have been told that operations will terminate in December 1978. 
Will he give an estimate of the cost of winding up the Organisation in terms of (a) redundancy payments, (b) furlough entitlements, (c) sick leave and (d) income maintenance. 
5 ) Will he detail the degree to which staff superannuation entitlements of employees will be affected particularly as they are not entitled to membership of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. 
How will the retirement expectations of long serving staff be reduced. 
What proposals have been considered for the management of the Organisation 's facilities at Woomera, SA. 
What measures will be employed in meeting the Organisation's commitments to assist the Papua New Guinea Canteens Organisation over the next 2 years. 
9 ) How many of the relevant trade unions have been consulted and on what occasions. 
10) What alternative source of welfare funds for servicemen will replace the distributed profits of the Organisation. 
1 1 ) On what occasions has he withheld the distribution of profits to servicemen 's welfare and for what reasons. 
12) Is it proposed to provide an other ranks mess service similar to that currently provided for officers and sergeants with steward service and beer at 12 cents a glass less than public bar price, also at the taxpayers' expense. 
How will the removal of the Organisation affect service conditions for servicemen of other ranks. 
14) What role has General A. L. McDonald played in the making of this decision. 
Will he table the report on the future of the Organisation prepared by  Sir Basil  Osborne and presented to him in January 1976. 
Has he considered that report's proposals for making the Organisation's operations more profitable. 
1 7) Is he able to say whether the equivalent organisations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom make a contribution to service staff welfare funds; if so, what provision is made for this purpose. 
What is the estimated cost of alternative provision of a canteen service for servicemen and what will be the source of funds for that purpose. 
What arrangements will be made for alternative employment of staff currently employed by the Organisation, especially in remote locations. 
Australia is a hierarchal society rather than an egalitarian society. Many of us grew up committed to the idea that universal education would be a major force in promoting social equality. I think we know better now. In many ways education reinforces already existing disadvantages in society. This is certainly true if one examines the quality of schools in our major cities, and there is no city in Australia where this is more obvious than Melbourne. 
Schools are not particularly effective instruments for instruction either. On this subject 1 must say that I am largely a convert to the views of  Dr Ivan  Illich, whose book  De-Schooling Society  will be known to some honourable members. He made the point that the great bulk of what we learn is actually picked up outside school and outside the formal learning, and that all of us learn very much more between the time of our birth and the age of five than we do in subsequent periods at school. In fact, the rate at which we learn seems to fall dramatically relative to those first five years. For example, to illustrate the point Illich is making, we all talk fairly fluently yet talk is something we have picked up outside the school situation. Compare our fluency in talking with our fluency in writing, which generally we learn at school and which generally we do very badly. Walking, physical co-ordination, sport, swimming, driving, cooking, using tools, social relationships, including sex and marriage, and basic philosophy, by which I mean a general secular or religious commitment and elementary reasoning, are learned outside the school education system, but they are the things that tend to be the major components of our lives. 
The school is an excellent sorting machine; it classifies people and sets them apart. Just as cattle and sheep are branded, so school leaves its brand or caste mark for life, and few succeed in washing or shaking it off, although an occasional University High School student may become a Liberal back bencher. If a person attends a poor school and he lives in a poverty-stricken social environment, the school system will do relatively little to overcome those disadvantages. If one is disadvantaged, school will tend to extend those disabilities through life. Cultural poverty seems to be inherited and it is extremely difficult to shake off. It is an irony that as we approach the goals of a satisfactory class-pupil ratio in conventionally equipped classrooms, the goal that has been pursued by parties for some time, these goals may recede, turn into a mirage and prove irrelevant for the educational needs of a postindustrial society. 
I would like to illustrate this by pointing to relative levels of qualifications found in three federal electorates in Victoria. I must say that it is a mournful commentary on the difficulties under which the Australian Bureau of Statistics is operating that the latest figures available for many of the most important social indicators are from the 1971 census. The 1976 census figures for the two most populous States have not yet been published. I seek leave to incorporate in 

 Hansard short tables from the 1971 census entitled: 'Level of Qualifications - Obtained and Studying' in relation to three Federal electorates. These figures have been adjusted for 1977 electoral boundaries even though they are 1971 figures. The electorates are Lalor, Melbourne and Kooyong. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_63_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_63_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_63_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_64_5.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Committee. I make the point that in my electorate the total number of people with bachelor degrees was 325 males and 76 females. The number of those who held a higher degree was 39 males and 7 females. Compare the figures, for example, of the electorate of Melbourne, which is also a safe Labor electorate, pardy industrial but with a high professional content as well. The total number of people in that electorate with a bachelor degree was 2,043 men and 1,115 women. The number of those with a higher degree was 386 men and 123 women. In the prosperous eastern electorate of Kooyong, held by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  3,349 males and 1,551 females held a bachelor degree. The number of those with a higher degree was 68 1 males and 223 females. 
The point is that from an educational point of view the electorate of Lalor- it is characteristic of the western suburbs of Melbourne generally- is a virtual intellectual proletariat. It is taken for granted that there is a double standard in our educational system. It is a two-tiered educational system. It is taken for granted that most of the pupils who go through the schools in the eastern part of Melbourne are looking forward to what they describe as 'a career'. That is, they look forward to a great degree of job satisfaction. It is taken for granted that most of them will finish their secondary education and that they have high levels of personal aspiration. But it is often taken for granted that in the western suburbs of Melbourne- I am sure this is true of the western and south western suburbs of Sydney as wellthat there will be a low degree of personal aspiration built into the school system. It is taken for granted that the overwhelming majority of students will drop out before they complete their secondary education and that most of them are aimed not at a career but at what is described with somewhat less dignified language as simply  a job ' and they will go into the work force as factory fodder. I find that extremely disturbing. 
I will have time to refer to only one other thing that concerns me very much about our education system. That is that so little is being done to teach foreign languages. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables from the report of the Committee on Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools. I refer to table 2 / 1 , 'Estimated Number of Primary School Courses in Modern Languages', and table 3/1, 'Modern Languages Taught in Responding Secondary Schools '. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_64_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_65_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_65_8.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Committee. The tables point out that to a large extent the languages that we teach are still determined very much by the traditional English style of education that we inherited. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has said so often, the reason why French is still the language most taught in Australian schools is simply that France is 21 miles away from England. But there are very few schools in Australia- the number, mercifully, is increasing- where languages of the Asian region are taught and very few schools where the languages of the people of our migrant community are taught. In my own electorate there is great difficulty in securing classes to teach the Maltese language. Maltese is easily the largest single language group in Lalor. Historically and linguistically it is an extremely important language- it is a Semitic language, as honourable members would know- but very rarely taught although there are thousands of children in Lalor 's schools whose family tongue is Maltese. I think it is important that we recognise the importance of teaching Japanese, Chinese and Indonesian/Malay. We will stay in this part of Asia for a very long time and it is essential that we get to know those languages, but they must be taught at primary level. It is too late to begin seriously teaching foreign languages at secondary level once the whole pattern of thought is determined. I urge the Government to do far more to make sure that we understand the languages of the region we live in and the culture of the people who five among us. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agree to. 
Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development 
Proposed expenditure, $4 1,724,000. 
Department of Construction 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 55,979,000. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the deaths of two of the most remarkable women in the history of the Australian cinema, Paulette and Phyllis McDonagh. Their achievement has been undeservedly forgotten, and I want it to be recorded by the national Parliament. There were three McDonagh sisters, all born in the first decade of this century, the daughters of a Sydney doctor. They grew up under the influence of Hollywood films, spent many hours watching and anlaysing them and finally decided, with fiercely independent spirit, to take on the United States industry and produce their own films. The eldest sister- Isobelle McDonagh,  Mrs Charles  Stewart- was an actress who performed under the name of Marie Lorraine. She is still living in England. Paulette McDonagh was director and principal writer and died on 29 August 1978. The youngest sister, Phyllis McDonagh, was business manager, publicist and art director. She died two days ago, on 17 October. They produced four feature films-  Those who Love  made in 1926;  The Far Paradise  made in 1928;  The Cheaters  made in 1930; and  Two Minutes Silence  made in 1933. The first and last of these films are now lost- a mournful indication of the poor archival holdings of our important films. 
Apart from their four feature films, the sisters also produced documentaries. Their films were amazingly inexpensive. They often made effective use of interiors in their family home, Drummoyne House. Their films secured release in England. Their last two features were talkies. Their style was naturalistic and they stressed the importance of the low-keyed cinema style of acting in contrast to the more flamboyant stage style. I invite honourable members to consider the audacity of these young women and the enormous odds they overcame. All their films were box office successes and critical successes as well. In the 1930s the three sisters left film production. Isobelle married and went to England; Phyllis moved to NZ. For 40 years they were ignored. They never received any official recognition; no OBEs or AMs were pushed in their direction. However, on 19 August 1978, in Perth, at the Australian Film Awards presented by the Australian Film Institute, Phyllis McDonagh-  Mrs Leo  O'Brien- accepted the Raymond Longford Award on behalf of the three sisters in recognition of their pioneering work in Australian film production. 
I would like to refer to their last film  Two Minutes Silence,  which was based on a play by the late Leslie Haylen, who was MHR for Parkes between 1943 and 1966. That film had its premiere in Canberra before an audience of parliamentarians at the Capital Theatre on 18 October 1933- just 45 years ago this week. William Morris Hughes wrote the introduction to the book of the film and called it 'a considerable achievement'. The poet Kenneth Slessor wrote: 
The treatment is surprisingly free from banality and the whole effect is one of beauty and strength'. 
As I remarked earlier, the film is now lost. Perhaps a copy of it is lying forgotten in a cellar or garage somewhere. I think it would be a fitting memorial to the McDonagh sisters if it could be found. I hope that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  might take up the cause- a very important cause- of looking for Australia's lost films. There are very many lost films in our relatively short film history, and they are really part of the national heritage. They have just been lost through neglect, and I think it is important that we do what we can to find them. I hope that the Minister might circulate all libraries, museums, schools and public institutions with lists of those missing items in our brief film heritage. Sad to say, even the Raymond Longford Award this year did not generate any interest in the remarkable achievements of the McDonagh sisters, and their deaths were ignored by the media. They deserve far better recognition than that. I think that we ought to be ashamed, as a nation, of the neglect that we often hand out to our pioneers. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that the Anglo-French Condominium of New Hebrides will become independent on 1 January 1979. 
If so, is he able to say whether (a) education in French language schools will be separately and entirely funded after independence by a special direct grant from the French Government thus relieving the New Hebridean Government of budgetary responsibility and assuring the future of French eucation; (b) education in English language schools will be the direct responsibility of the New Hebridean Government itself, which will not receive any special grant from the British Government apart from its continuing responsibility to pay a diminishing budgetary grant each year to cover all services and; (c) the equipment, pupil-teacher ratio, staff salaries and buildings in the English schools are already disadvantaged compared to the French schools in the New Hebrides. 
Has the Australian Government had discussions with the British and New Zealand Governments to see what financial assistance could be provided to assist the maintenance of standards in English speaking schools. 
Will he approach the British and New Zealand Governments to ascertain what ways assistance can be given to the English schools in the New Hebrides. 
Is he able to say how many persons in the New Hebrides have the primary language of (a) French and (b) English. 
What diplomatic and/or political representation does Australia have in the New Hebrides. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) What political and /or diplomatic representation does Australia have in New Caledonia. 
Is he able to say what is the current status of political movement towards independence. 
-There are several ways of tackling the problem of job displacement caused by the new technology. All of them are to be regarded as options for investigation; none will provide a complete answer. This is a completely new situation. New answers have to be found and it will be necessary to use new terminology. 'Post-industrialism', I have argued, is a better term than 'automation' or 'the new technology' because it is far more comprehensive. 'Automation' generally refers to job displacement in manufacturing industry only. 'Postindustrialism' includes automation, the growth of the information sector, miniaturisation in which smaller machines have greatly enlarged ranges of functions, and a post-scarcity economy in which problems of goods production have largely been solved. I want to set out a brief analysis of the options that we should be exploring. 
In relation to work sharing there are six considerations: 
Flexible options on retirement. 
Sabbatical leave for workers. 
Shorter working hours. 
Longer annual holidays. 
No more overtime. 
Part-time work. 
The typical Australian work pattern of 40 hours a week for 48 weeks a year totals 1,920 hours each year, or 2 1.92 per cent of the 8,760 hours in each year. If Australians worked 35 hours a week for 44 weeks each year there would be a fall of 20 per cent to 1,540 total hours worked. In theory this ought to mean a potential increase of 20 per cent in the work force but in practice this is unlikely to occur. In many cases the 35-hour week has led to the same level of productivity as the 40-hour week and, in some cases, to an increase in productivity. The 35-hour week and the 44-week year ought to be adopted as good things in themselves but they will not solve the problem of job creation. 
I have great sympathy for the position of the Australian Bank Officials Association and its feeling that employment in banking is under direct threat. However, I am sceptical about whether a 30-hour week will create more jobs. In practice it is hard to see the banks employing additional personnel to take up the six or seven hour shortfall each week caused by a 30-hour week, even if a four-day working week were introduced. It seems more likely that it would encourage greater use of laboursaving devices to augment the existing labour force. This would be counter-productive from the point of view of the ABOA. I am convinced that we must concentrate on changing the working year or the working lifetime if more jobs are to be created. 
Early retirement would be the most effective method of work sharing but it poses enormous psychological problems for many people who might feel useless and unwanted at 55 years of age. Retirement at age 55 works well in Japan, where it is the norm, because the Japanese family is essentially three generational. Grandparents normally are involved in the nurturing of children while parents are freed for work. This is not the pattern of family life in Australia where work is an essential prop for most people. Death shortly after retirement is an increasing phenomenon in Australia. I would prefer flexible options about the retirement date to the fixing of mandatory age limits. Sabbatical leave- the concept of one year's leave in every seven- deserves close examination although obviously it will be very CostlY. However, its cost has to be set against the social cost of chronic unemployment which may rise to 20 per cent of the potential work force. 
Sabbatical leave is likely to contribute spectacularly to the growth of tourism and leisure industries which would provide some opportunities for job creation. 
I turn now to work alternatives. The considerations here include: 
The recognition of domestic work as a separate economic sector; 
Guaranteed minimum income; 
Redefining work; 
Expansion of non-vocational education and further education; 
Greater absorption of young people in full-time education; 
Encouragement of arts, craft work, hobbies and other socially useful or productive ways of employing time. 
The economic value of domestic work must be recognised and properly remunerated in the same way as we recognise the value of public health or education. Changing the status of domestic work may provide wider real options for many people, mostly women, who are forced to seek jobs in manufacturing or service industries but who might prefer to work at home if it were economically possible. It is striking that the proportion of women in the work force increased from about 3 1.5 per cent in 1971 to 35.8 percent in 1977. Many women might opt to withdraw from either the manufacturing sector or the sector I describe as general economic services. Again, it must be regarded as an option which they can choose freely, not as something which is forced on them. 
Michael Young, the British sociologist, not the honourable member for Port Adelaide, has argued that part-time domestic service as a career could absorb large numbers of people in work they would like to do, such as gardening, maintenance, cleaning and child minding. This may be very hard to accept in an obstensibly egalitarian society such as we have in Australia but it is one of the options which needs investigation. 
We must recognise that 'post-industrial society' is based on a 'post-scarcity' economy in which the equitable distribution of goods is a greater problem than their manufacture. Making cars is easy; getting rid of them is hard. As Marx pointed out a century ago, collapse of purchasing power will destroy capitalism. This leads us to the concept of the guaranteed minimum income, that is, that each family ought to have a minimum income based on its reasonable needs, irrespective of how many members work, so as to keep up current levels of consumption. This income ought to be paid to the housewife in recognition of her work value. I recommend to honourable members Daniel Patrick Moynihan's book  The Politics of a Guaranteed Income  published in 1973, which is essential reading on this subject which, 1 might point out, was proposed by a Republican administration. People who undertake the care of the aged in their homes- a problem which will grow in an increasingly geriatric community- ought to be paid not less than the Government subsidy to old people 's homes for each inmate. 
We need to redefine the nature of work. The puritan work ethic is now obsolete because computers and other post-industrial devices do not react to words like 'ought' or 'duty'. Work should be seen as any form of activity that is socially useful, rather than only as employment for wages to produce goods and services. 
Education at secondary schools for vocational purposes is decreasing in value. Greater emphasis should be placed on education as a means of developing personal potential. Compared to 15 other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member nations, the proportion of Australians engaged in full time education to the age of 24 years is strikingly low. I do not believe that Australians are uniquely ineducable. The proportion of non-British students from working class and country areas also is extremely low. Education aimed at a tertiary professional qualification will not necessarily suit a majority of young people, but alternative types of education need to be investigated. Further education and the encouragement of arts and craft work ought to be seen as good things, per se, which this community can well afford, quite apart from any role they have as employment generators. I turn now to work creation: 
There should be a recognition that government is in a strong position to stimulate job creation, not necessarily directly in the government sector but by encouraging private employment. 
Government could stimulate employment in construction with specific projects such as tourist facilities, a national sewerage scheme, the beautification of urban blighted areas, the upgrading of housing stock, reafforestation projects and the building of public institutions, including schools, bridges, old people's homes and recreational facilities. 
Maintenance of employment levels could be achieved by increased protection; in the short term it might be possible to preserve jobs in the textile, footwear and other industries. 
Increasing the size of the Public Service, armed forces and police. 
I am putting these alternatives as options; I am not saying that this is the program that should be followed. These are the options that could be looked at. Government certainly can stimulate private employment through tenders for major projects, but each level of potential job creation raises new problems. For example, raising tariff levels can lead to reprisals and cripple export possibilities, and huge increases in defence spending might be politically unacceptable. Stimulation of construction is likely to be short term only. Tourism appears to have some potential, but this should not be overstated. 
Reversing economies of scale may be achieved by exercising three options: 
Decentralisation. 
Increasing the size of the primary work force. 
Adopting E. F. Schumacher's 'Small is Beautiful' thesis. 
I will not have time to develop these options at length, but I point out that economies of scale, as Adam Smith argued, enable more things to be produced by fewer people. In a time of chronic unemployment it may be necessary to have fewer things produced by more people. Twenty-five cities, each with 100,000 people, are likely to provide more work opportunities, with lower overheads, than a single city with 2,500,000 people. If we as a nation were serious about decentralisation and if the Canberra and Albury-Wodonga experiments were developed elsewhere, many more could be absorbed in employment. However, our strong urban tradition is against this. 
The last point I want to mention concerns whether we should keep technology out. We can either tax technology or raise the question of who needs it. This is the Luddite option. A technology tax has been proposed to be applied to assist workers in retraining. This begs the question: Retraining for what? This tax would need to be applied at a national level. At a State level it would have little impact as firms would then presumably transfer their computer programming to other States. The potential victims of postindustrialism are migrants, women, unskilled, and semi-skilled workers and the young. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the High Speed Transport System (HSST) being developed by Japan Air Lines to provide ground transport at 300 kph on an elevated monorail. 
If so, will he ascertain and advise the House if the model currently being shown at the International Engineering Exhibition in Sydney could be brought to Canberra so that Members could have an opportunity to inspect this important development in transport modes. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, on notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
1 ) When he was Treasurer was he responsible for recommending to Cabinet appointees to directorships of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Did Cabinet in March 1977 appoint, on his recommendation,  Mr Crawford-Fish,  a Director of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, with a fee of $5,750 a year and a daily allowance of $ 125. 
Is he able to say whether  Mr Crawford-Fish  was also appointed to a Directorship of Commonwealth Hostels for  a  fee of $3,450 and a daily allowance of $ 125. 
What was the background and professional expertise of  Mr Crawford-Fish  and what personal or professional relationships did he have with the then Treasurer prior to the appointments referred to in parts (2) and (3 ). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
How many knighthoods and dameships have been awarded on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Government (a) in total, and (b) in the following categories from 1 January 1 950 to date: (i) A.K. or A.D.; (ii) G.C.M.G.; (iii) K.C.M.G.; (iv) K.B.E. or D.B.E. and (v) Knights Bachelor. 
How many knighthoods or dameships were awarded to (a) politicians, (b) company directors, (c) charity workers, (d) academics, (e) trade union officials, (f) public servants, (g) clergy, (h) creative artists or performers, (i) armed services personnel and (j) others. 
-This defence vote is for $2,329,185,000 or $6.38m per day. Are we getting value for our defence dollar? I do not believe that any member can be very sure of the answer because I think we lack the means of evaluating how appropriate the expenditure is. The Lalor electorate includes the Royal Australian Air Force bases at Point Cook and Laverton and a significant proportion of my electors are Service personnel and their families. The RAAF academy at Point Cook is the largest tertiary institution in my electorate and it performs very valuable work. I am very much opposed to changing the existing arrangements by the proposed establishment of Casey University and I welcome the 12 months deferment of this project. There is much dissatisfaction about living conditions and inadequate maintenance in Service accommodation, especially in the West Sunshine area where houses are leased from the Victorian Housing Commission. I invite the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  through his proxy at the table, in the course of his pastoral duties to inspect Service housing with me. 
In approaching Budget estimates for the Defence Department the Parliament is uniquely disadvantaged. In an area which demands a high level of technical expertise, a Parliament composed of generalists is extremely disadvantaged by the prevailing curtain of secrecy. This Parliament is very poorly informed about defence matters. We are the worst informed legislature in the free world in relation to such matters. This is partly a survival of the paternalist approach to government in Australia refined to the status of a major art by the late  Sir Robert  Menzies. During the Menzies era the Parliament was told very little about defence and the Australian community was told even less. This is standard operating practice in the Defence Department which likes to clutch its secrets close to its collective breast, even excluding the Minister for Defence from scrutiny on occasion. I am concerned for example that we know so little about Pine Gap and that the reasons for erecting a curtain of secrecy about it appear to be so threadbare. The curtain hides Pine Gap, Nurrungar and Northwest Cape from Australians; not from the rest of the world. I endorse the words of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  yesterday. In 
Australia the operation of the D-notice system prevents newspapers and the media from referring to Pine Gap, although anomalously it can be referred to in books published here and in imported periodicals. I feel confident that the Russian intelligence is far better informed on Pine Gap than we are as a Parliament. So the elaborate secrecy apparatus operates only to the south-east and not to the north-west. It is an instrument of self-deception, and the Minister ought to be prepared to let the Australian Parliament know what appears to be well known overseas. I will quote just briefly from Richard Hall's recent book  The Secret State.  On page 185 he says: 
Just as Soviet satellites are able to monitor all the DSD stations on Australian soil so too have they been able to keep abreast of the operational details of Program 647, which has been widely written about in the US, as have the laser hunter-killer functions. Further, in the SALT discussions the two superpowers have exchanged information on their verification capacities, so Moscow knows infinitely more about the Australian-based facilities than the average Australian member of Parliament. 
As noted in the chapter on DSD, secrecy becomes an end in itself unrelated to the real world. From the first announcements of Pine Gap and Nurrungar, Australian governments, in conjunction with the US, have clumsily confused the issue by evasion and outright deception. Pine Gap was called from the start 'Joint Defence Space Research Facility' while Nurrungar was called 'Defence Space Communications Facility'; as has been seen, such passive titles don't convey the operational diversity of the roles of the two stations. But the Australian Department of Defence bureaucrats, having decided on the 'research' cover, one hardly likely to have deceived the Russians, have never faltered under any government. 
There is a collective secrecy mania in the upper echelons of this Government which I believe encourages a paranoid view of the world. Let me illustrate this with a vintage example from Richard Hall's book. On page 236 he prints the full text of a report entitled 'World Oil: Recent Developments'. The document heads off with these hair-raising warnings: 
TOP SECRET 
Warning 
This document contains CODEWORD material and can be made available only to those specially authorized and listed as such 
Office of Current Intelligence Note No. 2/ 1975 JIO AUSTRALIA WORLD OIL: RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT DOCUMENT Not to be released to any other government except Britain and  NZ only  Joint Intelligence Organization Department of Defence, Canberra, ACT TOP SECRET TOP SECRET UMBRA 
UMBRA is the code word used to designate reports or analyses which contain material derived from the Defence Signals Division. Then there is this stern warning: 
To be kept under combination lock and never removed from the office unless transmitted in accordance with the regulations. 
What follows is a banal document which reaches the astounding conclusion that increases in oil prices by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will increase fuel costs! We did not need to be protected from that. That could have been read, without any need to break a combination lock, in any contemporary issue of the  Economist,  the  Australian Financial Review  or the  National Times. 
-Indeed, yes. Yet the professionals in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation felt impelled to regard the disclosure of such information as a grave infringement of national security. I suspect that the Department of Defence shares this view and might be inclined to put every desk calendar under a top secret classification. 
There has been a remarkable change in Australian attitudes towards defence and foreign policy. Ten years ago defence and foreign policy were among the most contentious and most bitterly divisive issues in Australian public life and in the Parliament. Until 1972 the prevailing philosophy in Australian government policy was forward defence'. There was a fear of a third world war and the view that the best place to confront the enemy was a long way from Australia. Then, in 1 972, came the election of the Whitlam Labor Government. I think, perhaps, in retrospect, that one of its most remarkable achievements- I think that this would be recognised in Tasmania- was in making Australian foreign policy and defence policy bipartisan. There was a recognition in Australia that many of the factual assumptions on which our defence policy had been based were simply not sound. 
From 1972 to 1975 the Ministers for Defence- the  Hon.  Lance Barnard, a distinguished Tasmanian, and the  Hon.  Bill Morrison- put forward the doctrine of 'continental defence'. That was the official designation given to the policy between 1972 and 1975. The policy of the present Government, which is expressed in its White Paper of November 1976 called 'Australian Defence', is essentially a policy of 'self-reliance'. That self-reliance policy is almost indistinguishable from the 'continental defence' policy put forward by the Labor Party. I draw to the attention of the House a very interesting and worthwhile book entitled  The defence of Australia- fundamental new aspects,  edited by Robert O'Neill and published by the Australian National University in 1976.  Dr O'Neill  writes that there are two major points to be made about Australian defence. He writes: 
First there is no basis for continuance of a forward defence policy- Australia must now plan to defend herself by forces based essentially on Australian territory. Second Australia has to assume prime responsibility for her own defence in situations of regional conflict and, probably, in higher level contingencies. 
So much is agreed ground between major participants in the debate on Australian defence policy. However the direction in which Australia should move from this point is very much open to dispute- is it to a nuclear strike force, a long range conventional maritime strike force, a '200 mile moat', Fortress Australia', or any combination of these? How far do we rely on allies? What sorts of equipment look to be viable for the 1980s and 1990s? What son of defence infrastructure will Australia need to sustain chosen strategic posture? In all of these and many other areas the field for contention is wide. 
I believe that we ought to be spending much more time in the Parliament discussing this range of options. We can cast an informed vote in this Parliament only if we understand the range of contingencies that face Australia. I hope that the Minister will make sure that we have more time for discussion. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Why has Question No. 916 concerning appointments held by and remuneration paid to  Mr G.  N. Crawford-Fish on the Minister's recommendation during his term as Treasurer and which was first asked on 1 1 April, not been answered. 
When may I expect an answer to that question. 
direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Who arranged the meeting last year which resulted in Stawell Timber Industries being given favoured treatment throughout Australia in the building of Aboriginal Housing? Why was this company given exclusive access to departmental information which allowed it to contact, and sell directly to, every Aboriginal housing association in Australia which had a current housing requirement? In particular, why was this preferential treatment extended to a company whose prices and performance has been subject to persistent criticism by the Aboriginal Housing Trust? To what extent is the Government's attitude to Stawell Timber Industries influenced by the company's location in the electorate of Wannon? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
With respect to recent trade negotiations with the People's Republic of China about the export of iron ore, what arrangements have been made about shipping. 
Will the ore be shipped by Australian vessels. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Between what dates has the Australian Ambassador to Switzerland been absent from that country? 
What places did the Ambassador visit during each absence? 
What was the purpose of each visit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What is the total area of land in the Electoral Division of Lalor owned by Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities, indicating: 
the area and location of each piece of land; 
b) the controlling authority in each case; 
the purpose for which the land, 
was intended to be used; 
is actually used at present; and 
is intended to be used; 
the details of rates in respect of each piece of land paid to the relevant local government authority or the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that his Department and the Treasury were originally excluded from the interdepartmental committee on the post-industrial implications of job displacement by the new technology; if so, why. 
Is it also a fact that the Department of Social Security is still excluded; if so, why. 
Will the Government now call a national conference with broad terms of reference to investigate the economic and social implications of post-industrialism, and invite submissions from all political parties, the trade unions, business interests and the public generally. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1978. 
1 ) Which areas within the Electoral Division of Lalor have no postal deliveries and collections. 
Has Australia Post surveyed the needs of industry in those areas for a full postal service. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to some important research work being carried out into basic structural changes which are occurring in advanced Western economies such as our own. Perhaps the most significant is the Nora report commissioned in 1976 by  President  Valery Giscard d 'Estaing and which appeared in 1978 under the title 'L'informatisation de la Societe', published by  Documentation Francaise.  The authors are Simon Nora and Alain Mine, both senior public servants. They accept that France is well into the post industrial society, or the information society as some prefer to call it, in which an increasing share of the national economy will be devoted to the collecting, processing and dissemination of data, or 'informatics' to use the Nora report's terminology. However, they conclude that there will be an enormous loss of jobs due to technological change, especially in the service sector of employment. They conclude that banking will lose 30 per cent of its employees in 10 years, with insurance and education similarly affected, and that the job creation promised by France's seventh national plan is not likely to eventuate. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short report from the  New Scientist  of 8 June 1 978. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-In Japan valuable work has been done by  Dr Yoneji  Masuda in his Social Impact of Computerization- An Application of the Pattern Model for Industrial Society'. To provide a graphic illustration of the changing patterns of society I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard his  short table 'Comparison of Information Society with Agricultural and Industrial Society'. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811146_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. In the United States, the Department of Commerce published in 1977 a study by  Dr Marc  Uri Porat called the  Information Economy  in which he concluded that since 1967 information workers, broadly defined, had received more than half of employee compensation and that by 1980 more people would be employed in the information sector than in all the other economic sectors combined. I draw attention to the pioneering work in Australia of  Dr Shirley  Smith of the School of Education at the University of New South Wales and, in particular, to her seminal suggestions on recurrent or lifelong education as a means of providing a socially useful and personally satisfying work alternative. 
I want to thank the Statistical Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library which has prepared a table and an explanatory note illustrating the five-sector analysis of the work force which I proposed on 23 February 1978, reported at pages 164-168 of  Hansard.  I seek leave to incorporate the table and notes in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811146_66_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. This should be read as supplementary to the foursector analysis given in my maiden speech. In Great Britain,  Dr Jonathan  Gershuny of the University of Sussex has written a major study entitled  After Industrial Society!  published in 1978 by Macmillan. He criticises Daniel Bell and other early post-industrial theorists for underestimating the impact of the new technology on employment, particularly in the services. Gershuny illustrates how technological change in the United Kingdom has hit employment in services even more seriously than in manufacturing- that people, for example, are buying more consumer durables and are consuming fewer services provided by people. For example, people are choosing to buy private cars rather than using public transport, or buying gramophones or colour television sets rather than going to live entertainment. 
I think it is very important that we must steer a careful course between two dangers. The first is a facile optimism that the new technology means business as usual and that we do not need to plan for change and the second is a panicky Luddite over-reaction against the labour-saving implications of post-industrialism. Some government departments are merely whistling in the dark. Only this week, I was assured by some cheery senior bureaucrats- I refrain from naming their department- that new employment would be found in four areas: Food, wine, travel and cars. Universal experience, particularly with the fuel strike in Victoria at the moment, would suggest that this is an assinine assumption. There are a number of related social problems which could tear this nation apart, particularly the widening gap between the information rich and the information poor in which the unskilled become an intellectual proletariat; the problem we have to face where shorter working hours are offered with correspondingly lower pay which means, in effect, increased hardship for the poor; and growing competition for jobs which will disadvantage young people, women and migrants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) On what day did Princess Alexandra and  Mr Agnus  Ogilvy (a) arrive in Australia and (b) depart. 
What was the total cost of their visit to Australia. 
3 ) What were the specific reasons for their visit. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and refer the Minister to his previous answers in this House concerning Stawell Timber Industries, and specifically to a statement that he was aware that the Department of Construction had had cause to reprimand the company for the poor quality of its work. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a letter from the company to every Aboriginal housing authority on a list the Minister supplied to the company, which states: 
This letter is the result of a meeting, in Canberra, between our Managing Director and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  who agreed, because of our performance throughout Australia in the field of Aboriginal Housing, to supply our firm with a list of Aboriginal Housing Societies with housing requirements this year. 
When did the Minister first learn of the contents of this letter and what action did he take to correct its implication? Why did Stawell Timber Industries get such preferred ministerial treatment, particularly as there had been serious questioning of the quality of its work? 
I want to direct the attention of the Committee to clauses 13 and 14 of the Bill that provide for writing off film investments over a period of two years. I want to commend the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for introducing this enlightened measure. The situation still needs to be treated with caution. The Whitlam Government marked the 'great leap forward', to coin a phrase, in the Australian film industry. However, if I can be bipartisan for a moment, it is important to recognise the contribution made by the Vincent Committee and later by John Gorton. He accepted the 1969 report of the Australian Council for the Arts, as it was then called, which recommended the setting up of the Australian 
Film and Television School, the Australian Film Development Corporation and the experimental film fund. 
This report was written by Peter Coleman, the former Liberal leader in the New South Wales Parliament, Phillip Adams, the writer, television executive and film producer and a third person who modesty prevents me naming. I think it is fair to say that the success of the revived Australian feature film industry has been greater than we ever imagined in 1969-70. If we had predicted that within 10 years Australia would be producing 15 feature films each year, we would have been ridiculed as wild visionaries. Nevertheless, it is possible that the Australian feature film industry will face some difficulties. We must be careful that the Government's apparent generosity in permitting tax write-offs after two years does not exacerbate the situation. One difficulty is that we are probably making too many feature films each year. There is real apprehension that the boom period may be passing. It has certainly peaked already and producers and directors do not want to wait in a long, slow queue to get their films made, sold and exhibited. They want to make them now. That means that film makers are competing with each other for scarce resources- the best camera men, light and sound personnel, writers and performers are in short supply. 
Competition has led to a rapid escalation in the costs of films. I estimate that film costs have risen by about 25 per cent per annum over the past five years. If there were fewer films, it is possible that film costs could be controlled and we could have what the National Country Party might call orderly marketing over the next five years. The problem is, how to do it. I know it is a problem that worries the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  as well. An increased investment flow, however desirable at first sight, may add to the industry's long-term problems unless it is handled very carefully. 
The additional film costs pose other problems as well. Within the film industry there is a rule of thumb that for films with budgets of less than $lm, it is necessary to collect $5 at the box office for every $1 invested in the film before it is into profit. As a result, a film which costs $ 100,000 to make and grosses $600,000 at Australian box offices is a financial success. A film which costs $500,000 to make but which grosses $2m at the Australian box office is a disaster. Because of escalating costs, the $500,000 film is becoming increasingly common in Australia. As film goers will not pay five times the ticket price for a film which costs $500,000 to produce compared with the price of a ticket for a $100,000 film, this means that producers have to gross at least $2. 5m either here or abroad in order to break even. Past experience suggests that it is a very rare box office success in Australia which grosses more than $2m. The industry grosses about $100m per annum in Australia but our films, good as they are, have to compete with the best foreign films and also with box office blockbusters such as  Jaws  and  Jaws II. 
This means that our producers increasingly are looking for overseas sales to provide for the box office shortfall or overseas equity participation. Both courses present challenges, which is good, and risks, which may be good if we handle them properly. I am concerned about the danger that in appealing to the international market primarily our products may become bland, that is to say, they will become compromise films. They may not really express an Australian point of view because it is suspected that that Australian point of view may not go down too well in the overseas market or they may not express a point of view at all. The history of co-production in film making in Australia has a record of disaster. I think there has never been a co-production here which can be remembered without a shudder. It is true that a fail safe precaution in the definition of'Australianfilm'iscontainedinproposedsec- tion 1 24k of the principal Act clause 1 3 of the Bill before the Committee. When I read the definition of 'Australian film' I recognised my fine Italian hand because I think I drafted that definition originally and it appeared in the first annual report of the Australian Film Development Corporation. Now it has become - 
-That is true. But in any case my definition is still here. I hope that the Minister will be able to enforce the terms of the definition of Australian film to make sure that we never lose effective creative control over what we are doing. If we look at the history of coproduction in other countries, for example Spain, we find that it has a record of absolute disaster where there is a period in which a very large amount of foreign capital is provided with a lot of films being made, but suddenly the tide recedes. The troops go home and there is just a shambles of an industry left because it has been used to operating on a grandiose international scale. Once the foreign capital is withdrawn and once they are not interested in making those films - 
-A lot of them were pretty bad films. One could look at one of the first reports that was made to this Parliament on the future of the Australian film industry- the Vincent report of the early 1960s. My recollection is that the Vincent report also recommended that there should be tax adjustments of this kind. The late  Senator Vincent  has been dead for many years now but I would like to think that one of his recommendations, although it appears in a somewhat different form, has been introduced in legislation. I am glad to see it but I ask the Government and the Minister to look very carefully at the way in which it will be administered. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Which State and private schools in the Electoral Division of Lalor have received Commonwealth Grants during each of the years 1971 to 1978. 
For each school what was (a) the amount received, (b) the purpose for which the grant was made and (c) the fund from which the grant was paid. 
-The Opposition supports the views which the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  put so adequately. We hope that the report will be read in detail by all honourable members because important principles are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How many primary and secondary schools, both state and private, in each of the 6 states teach the following languages: (a) French; (b) German; (c) Italian; (d) modern Greek; (e) Serbo-Croatian; (0 Chinese; (g) Japanese; (h) Indonesian/Malay and (i) Arabic 
2 ) How many of these schools teach 3, 4 or 5 languages. 
What endeavours are being made by the Department of Education to promote the learning of languages in schools throughout Australia. 
-The Victorian Liberal Party at its State conference in 
Melbourne last week took an instinctive lurch to the Right. It rejected the initiatives of the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria in exploring for natural gas in Bass Strait and told it to sell its exploration interests to private enterprise. By a vote of 197 to 163 the conference also decided to repudiate its Premier  Mr Hamer,  the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Thompson,  the Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Dixon,  and call for the restoration of the death penalty. Four Liberal back benchers supported restoration of hanging. Their names, which will be unaccountably unfamiliar to honourable members, deserve to be recorded. They are: The Honourable Vernon Hauser, M.L.C.;  Mr Bruce  Skeggs, M.L.A.;  Mr Robert  Suggett, M.L.A.; and  Mr Aurel  Smith, M.L.A. It will be conceded that they are not exactly the people the Victorian Liberal Party is looking to for leadership in the 1980s. I commend the  Speaker, Sir Billy  Snedden, Messrs Lynch, Street and Staley and  Senator Missen  who opposed the death penalty resolution at that conference. Nevertheless, it is understandable that people should react instinctively towards atrocious crimes of violence. 'Let us do something', they seem to say, 'anything, so long as it is decisive'. They presumably walked away from the conference having voted for death with a sense that something decisive had been done and that the problem of crime control had been solved. 
Vengeance is the penal superstition of the Right just as rehabilitation is the penal superstition of the Left. In this extremely uncertain area neither has any demonstrated effectiveness. Punishment is a cherished part of the Australian way of life. It is a concept that Australians understand and warm to. The last remnant of the puritan ethic is the sense that everyone who goes to prison deserves to be there and that conditions ought to be tough, otherwise offenders will prefer the security and comfort of prison to the hazards of life outside. Most Australians, I suspect, have little faith that prisons can rehabilitate. This pessimism is realistic. They see retribution as the main element of our penal system. Their attitude is that if reform is unlikely, we should just keep prisoners out of the way. 
Australia began as a convict settlement and penology was its primary industry for 50 years. Our penal birthstains and convict ancestry has not- the 'mateship' legend to the contrarygiven us much sympathy for prisoners. They are not seen as victims of society, but as outlaws, people who have declared war on the community. Ned Kelly, our most celebrated felon, is an exception who captured sympathy in odd areas of the bush and in some cities, but it is hard to add another convict name to our pantheon. There is a strong class element in all this. 
Ben Hall is another exception, from the electorate of the honourable member for Hume. Except for the small but growing area of middle class crime, such as fraud and embezzlement and some classless crimes, such as murder and serious motoring offences such as manslaughter, most crimes are committed by the poor. Jails are overwhelmingly filled by the poor, the illiterate and the disadvantaged. Aborigines are jailed out of all proportion to their numbers. The middle class alcoholic has the protection of friends and family. So does the middle class drug addict. They rarely find themselves in jail. Poor drunks are a significant group in our prisons. Most are isolated, alienated, friendless, remote from family or friends and socially defenceless. To have been jailed is a stigma of failure. To have slipped down society's greasy pole makes it much harder to climb up again. 
Prisons have a profound symbolic significance. They are closed and violent micro-societies conducted on behalf of and in the name of the large open society outside. But what are their aims? Do they succeed and how do we measure their effectiveness? It is easier to measure the effectiveness of other institutions. Some patients are carried out of hospitals but most walk out, demonstrably fitter than when they went in. We would be sceptical about hospitals if patients went in with one broken leg and came out with two, or if students entered a university with employable skills and emerged with no prospects at all. The best protection against crime in the long run is a society in which there is steady and unyielding pressure against every form of violence in a community which relies on reason rather than emotionalism and blind instinct. That is why we have much to learn from the succeess in crime control in countries such as Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, where from the earliest schooldays, children are taught to abhor violence. This is not to support the criminal interest as against that of the victim. I adopt the words of the great French Nobel Prize-winning novelist, Albert Camus, who said: 
I stand as far as possible from that position of spineless pity in which our humanitarians take such pride, in which values and responsibilities change places, all crimes become equal, and innocence ultimately forfeits all rights. 
We need to know far more about the causes of crime, and why patterns of criminal behaviour differ from suburb to suburb and from city to city. If a typhoid epidemic broke out in a particular area, we would know how to handle it, but in crime control we blunder about blindly. Boris Pasternak wrote in  Dr Zhivago: 
I think that if the beast who sleeps in man could be held down by threats- any kind of threat, whether of jail or retribution after death- then the highest emblem of man would be the lion tamer in the circus with his whip, not the prophet who sacrificed himself. But don't you see, this is just the point- what has for centuries raised man above the beast is not the cudgel but an inward music; the irresistible power of warmest truth, the powerful attraction of its example. 
Most Australian States retain huge, ugly, destructive, expensive multi-purpose central prisons such as Pentridge Prison in Victoria, Long Bay gaol in New South Wales and another one yet to be built, Boggo Road Gaol in Queensland, all of them monuments to futility. No one is proud of them. They are universities of crime, hospitals that infect patients, asylums that increase madness, warehouses of misery, that exist only to satisfy our collective folk myths or ignorance about crime and punishment. 
I wish to talk about the death penalty itself. A reasonable man thinking calmly might well conclude that the death penalty ought to be a unique deterrent because it horrifies him. But examination of criminal statistics does not bear this out. There are some classic examples of how close familiarity with the death penalty does not seem to have had that unique deterrent effect.  Sir Ernest  Gowers found that, of 167 prisoners hanged in Bristol in the 19th century, 164 had witnessed one or more executions. The appropriately named Charles Justice, who invented the clamps for holding condemned prisoners in the electric chair, was himself electrocuted for murder. 
Until 1939, when guillotinings were public in France, a majority of French murderers had observed one or more guillotinings. David Bennett, who was hanged at Pentridge Prison in 1932, was a lifelong friend of Angus Murray, who was hanged in 1924. Thomas John Ley, a former New South Wales Minister of Justicenot Labor of course- and an ardent retentionist was sentenced to death for murder in England in 1947. Harold Green who organised the petition for the hanging of the 'Moors Murderers,' Ian Brady and Myra Hindley, was soon after convicted of child murder. Sergeant William J. Mulrine III, a senior police officer who campaigned for the restoration of capital punishment in Delaware in 1951, murdered his wife 10 days after the death penalty was restored. 
It is striking that with the much publicised political assassinations and attempted murders in the United States of America-for example, the murders of  President  John Kennedy,  Senator Robert  Kennedy,  Dr Martin  Luther King, Medgar Evans, James Meredith, and George Lincoln Rockwell and Malcolm X, and the attempted murders of  President  Truman and George Wallace- all without exception took place in States in which the death penalty applied, although all these men were highly mobile and in theory might just as well have been shot down in an abolitionist jurisdiction. But it does not happen. One might have expected that many murderers in the United States of America would have taken their victims over State lines into an abolitionist area to kill them, but they did not. For a unique penalty to deter uniquely it would need to be effectively publicised. Even supporters of capital punishment are squeamish about media coverage of current methods of execution. An inexpert hangman may bungle the long drop, and with lessening execution rates expert hangmen are hard to find. The electric chair causes convulsions, scorching and sparks which would look gruesome on colour television; the operation of gas chambers is protracted; the guillotine has never been popular in the English speaking world; the garotte has few supporters outside Spain; and the Australian Medical Association would be uneasy about lethal injections which may be in conflict with its members' ethical codes. 
The retentionist dilemma is that executions conducted in public or on television may maximise any deterrent effect of capital punishment while at the same time arousing revulsion among the non-committed. Abolitionists have always argued that capital punishment encourages a morbid fascination with murder, turns trials into gladiatorial contests, and invariably produces sympathy for even the most unprepossessing criminal. No one has been executed in Australia since February 1967. 1 do not believe, despite the breast beating we have seen from retentionists in the last few days, that there is anybody in a responsible place in Australian public life who believes that there will ever be another execution in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MarthaOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I think it should be pointed out that we recognise the urgency of this legislation and we recognise that the session is very quickly drawing to a close. The whole purpose of the establishment of Legislation Committees was so that it would be possible for honourable members to leave the House when it is crowded, as it is at the moment, and to- 
We appreciate the urgency of the situation, but it can be pointed out also that a Legislation Committee could meet tomorrow morning. The very points that were made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)-  they were not made in a contentious spirit but in order to seek consensus- could be put and argued out and some agreement reached in a Legislation Committee. The suggestion is that, in dealing with clauses which have proved to be inadequate, in the past the method that very often we used in the Parliament- the method of confrontation; one side against the other- may be inferior to the method of seeking consensus. In that situation 15 members sit around a table, talking the situation out, trying to reach some kind of agreement on points that are tricky and contentious, and putting a variety of points of view. All we are suggesting is that we allow a Legislation Committee to meet tomorrow morning. 
The Government Whip's remarks suggest two things: Firstly, that he is in serious need of medical attention himself and, secondly, that he does not understand the nature of the point we are making. We are not making the point of order in order to try to score political advantage. We are trying to produce legislation which will cover all the future exigencies. When the legislation is carried, its application will be retrospective and it is hard to see that there will be any serious delay in its passage through this House and through another place. I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to give serious consideration to the proposal. It is not offered in any spirit of contention. Its intention is to try to get the best out of the legislation, not for the Government, not for us, but for the community at large. 
-The purpose of the Bounty (Commercial Motor Vehicles) Bill 1978 is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the assembly in Australia of heavier general purpose commercial motor vehicles, including buses. This follows report No. 154 of the Industries Assistance Commission dated 16 December 1977 on commercial motor vehicles, parts and accessories. That report was tabled in the Parliament on 15 May 1978. It was the result of the Government's rejection of an earlier IAC recommendation to increase slightly import duties on heavier general purpose commercial vehicles. The Government considered that that measure would be insufficient to arrest the decline of the industry. Indeed, the Government returned the original reference to the IAC with the explicit suggestion that it study a package deal aimed at expanding production and employment in the Australian industry. 
On 10 August 1978 the Government announced a package of measures designed to boost employment and production in heavier vehicle assembly. This package included the following: Firstly, duties of 22 per cent on assembled heavier general purpose commercial vehicles and 25 per cent on prime movers for articulated dump trucks; secondly, duty free admission under by-law of completely knocked down- that is, CKD-vehicles and original equipment- that is, OE- components based soley on the extent of their assembly; and, thirdly, bountry assistance to local vehicle assemblers at the rate of 20 per cent of the instore cost to them of certain locally produced OE components. The new arrangements applied from 17 August 1978 and are to terminate on 31 December 1984. 
This Bill proposes to implement part of this package, namely, that part relating to the bounty scheme. Two other aspects- one involving the setting of rates of duty on imported completely built up vehicles at 22  'A  per cent and the other involving the duty free importation under by-law of imported OE components- were part of Customs Tariff Proposal No. 21 (1978) introduced into the House on 16 August and passed by this House only yesterday as part of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1 978. 1 note that I still have 28 minutes of speaking time remaining, but the House will be gratified to know that I do not intend to use it all. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Indeed, we recognise that this measure should have immediate beneficial effects for this industry and, I may say, for my own electorate as well, because Rockwell Standard of Australia Ltd which manufactures axles and which is located in Sunshine has been very much affected. 
-I am sure that the honourable member for Holt is in a similar situation. The IAC estimated that such a measure would have the effect, firstly, of allowing vehicle assemblers to reduce their prices by an average of 1 1 per cent and, secondly, of increasing employment in assembly operations by the order of some 300 persons, plus a smaller increase in component production employment. I would think that a very high proportion of those 300 persons would be residents of my electorate. The Opposition is anxious to expedite the passing of this Bill. The Government's action on CKD vehicles became effective immediately on the issue of by-law 2/35 in August which provided definitions for the degree of assembly to qualify for duty free entry of parts. As the result of delays involved in the introduction of this Bill, however, the component industry has been without protection since 10 August 1978. The delay has seen vehicle builders using local parts, which have not yet been priced with the benefit of a bounty, being forced to consider the use of imported equipment to enable them to compete with those companies using components which now are duty free. All this, of course, has been to the detriment of local component producers. 
The co-operation of the Opposition in facilitating the passage of this Bill should not be seen as complete endorsement of the aims and the nature of the Bill. I shall now note several aspects of the Bill which worry us. The Government's scheme conformed with the IAC recommendations, with one exception. Whereas the Commission had recommended that bounty assistance be available on all local components, the Government, in the light of the need to minimise expenditure commitments, decided 'on less extensive, and less costly, assistance'. In particular, the Government's scheme would provide bounty assistance to locally produced axles, gear boxes, propeller shafts, wheels, air brake equipment and suspension systems, if they were used as OE in the production of heavier general purpose commercial vehicle and buses. The reason given for that provision was that it would reduce the cost of the scheme. 
However, neither the statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announcing the decision, nor his second reading speech gives any indication of the total cost of the package. No indication was given in these public sources as to how much the cost of this restricted scheme would differ from the cost of the IAC's broader scheme which was estimated to be about $4Sm to $50m; that is to say, about $ 18m in bounty assistance, and the remainder being customs revenue forgone. However, leaked reports- as we all know, that is the standard method of communication to this Parliament- indicated that the Cabinet submission of the Department of Industry and Commerce put the direct cost of the bounty scheme between $3m and $5m a year, making a total cost of about $30m when lost customs revenue is also included. When the 350 jobs which might be created are taken into consideration, the annual cost of the scheme would appear to be about $100,000 per additional job created. Despite the Government's revision of the IAC proposal, the Government has failed to avoid a significant cost-per-job problem. 
Another cause for concern is that the Government has published no reasons why it singled out the particular components which qualify for bounty assistance from the whole range of components to which the IAC broader scheme would have applied. I know that Ministers occasionally respond to pressure from anguished members. That has been known, as I think the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  would confirm. What it illustrates in a sense is that whilst I am gratified with the result for my electorate and no doubt the honourable member is gratified with the result for his electorate, it is another illustration of a made to measure tariff policy, something that is appropriate for one area but not appropriate for another. It is something which is difficult to explain as a piece of economic rationality for the whole nation. 
Therefore, while serving an entirely deserving aim, the scheme that has been devised would appear to adopt clumsy, excessive measures to achieve this aim. This is the direct result of the Government's doctrinaire rejection of any positive intervention and planning in industry, and the consequent over-reliance upon varying levels of tariff and bounty assistance as the principal means of achieving the objectives of its industry policy. In relying upon tariffs and bounties, the Government is abdicating its responsibilities for directly tackling the structural reorganisation of those industries which need it. Whilst the Opposition cannot oppose the Bill- a measure which is necessary to bale out industries, given the Government's doctrinal blinkers- we must make it clear that we view these limited policies as being just another example of the Government's myopic industry policy. We look forward to comprehensive policies instead of a whole series of hundreds of made to measure policies. 
-by leave-This is an extremely important report by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It is the first of a  series which aims to inform the Parliament and the people of Australia about the significance of automatic data processing in the public sector. The worst thing that could happen would be for this report to be presented, to be accepted with expressions of goodwill on all sides, and then for it to lie unread, undebated, lodged in some comfortable pigeon hole. The full Public Accounts Committee and the sectional committee which worked on this report, worked extremely hard. The report in its way is a text book, one of the most significant documents presented, certainly in the brief time that I have been a member of the House of Representatives. However, if the report is not read and debated at length in this place and then acted on it might just as well have never been written at all. 
I hope that the Government will undertake to set time aside in the autumn session to ensure that there is adequate debate on this extremely important report. The implications of the report are serious. Conceptually, ADP is a very difficult area to work in, particularly for laymen. It illustrates for many members of parliament, who are laymen and generalists in most areas, the problem of the fragmentation of knowledge. I have spoken about this before in this House. As the volume of accessible knowledge increases exponentially and as it becomes increasingly difficult for members of parliament to be able to comprehend the range and depth of government activity, we may fall increasingly into the hands of technocrats with tunnel vision who understand their area absolutely. But we will find that the range of members of parliament are unable to understand it and cannot find the time to acquire the information to argue out on policy and administrative matters in equal terms. 
I draw attention again to the 40 recommendations referred to by the  Chairman,  or the 40 steps. I remind honourable members of the story which they may know of Voltaire's comment about St Denis, the patron saint of Paris. According to the legend, when he had his head cut off he picked up his head and put it under his arm and walked for 40 steps. Voltaire said: 'I really am prepared to accept most of the story'. He said: 'I am certainly prepared to accept that he walked perhaps 39 steps but in fact it is really only the first step that I am worried about'. I think in this case we need to make sure that the first, the second, the third, right up to the 40th of those steps, is understood, debated in this place and acted on. 
I refer first to the- 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 

 A division having been called for, and the bells being rung- 

MrBouchier- Yes. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Are security files kept on all Members of the Australian Parliament, either by the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation or by other agencies. 
2) If files are only kept on some Members, what is the criterion used to determine if Members are to be subject to the keeping of files. 
Can individual members be given access to their own files in order to check for accuracy. If not, why not 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
What is the projected cost of the construction of the new High Court Building in Canberra and what is the estimated date of completion. 
Is it a fact that costs have escalated since the building was commenced. 
If so, is a major reason for this escalation changes in design which have been initiated by the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. 
What alterations in design have been recommended by the Chief Justice, and what is the estimated additional cost for each of them. 
With regard to the procedure followed when the Chief Justice's recommendations are made, (a) to whom are they made, (b) are they subject to independent evaluation and, if so, by whom and (c) who authorises the alterations. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1) Is the Department of Social Security providing funds for the construction of home units for old persons in Francis Street, Yea, Victoria. 
If so, to which organisation is the subsidy or grant being made. 
What conditions apply to the grant and what procedures were followed in the making of the grant. . 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the level of youth unemployment for those aged between 1 5 and 24 and can he give comparisons in percentage terms with the other member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
How many persons (a) in general and (b) between the ages of 15 and 24 are enrolled in courses of continuing education, compared in percentage terms with the other OECD member states. 
asked the Minister for Busi ness and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Is he able to provide the current relative percentage of the price of passenger motor vehicles attributed to (a) sales tax and (b) import duties in (i) Australia, (ii) the United Kingdom, (iii) the United States of America, (iv) New Zealand, (v) South Africa, (vi) France, (vii) Italy, (viii) West Germany and (ix) Japan? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) What stage has been reached in negotiations to restore diplomatic relations with Kampuchea. 
What information can he provide about the current situation in Kampuchea, with particular reference to shortages of food, shelter and medical supplies. 
On what main sources of information is the Government relying to assess the current situation in Kampuchea. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 November 1978 the following question: 
1 ) With respect to each industry-class of manufacturing establishments located within each subdivision of the Electrical Division of Lalor how many establishments have been operating during 1978 to date. 
What was the average number of (a) males, (b) females and (c) total persons employed in those establishments. 
What were these figures for 1974. 
What was the estimated value of wages and salaries. 
What was the total estimated value added of the products manufactured. 
What was the estimated fixed capital expenditure during the 2 most recent years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Who told the National Aboriginal Conference Executive Selection Pane] that  Mr David  Anderson, an applicant for the position of Secretary-General of the NA.C, was proceeding overseas on a study tour. 
What evidence was there to support this assertion. 
Did the NAC. members involved have, or see, any documented evidence that  Mr Anderson  was overseas or proceeding overseas. If so, what was its source. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How many cases per month are dealt with by the Family Court of Australia in Melbourne. 
What is the current back-log of cases. 
What is the typical waiting time for cases to be dealt with. 
What measures does the Attorney-General intend to take to remedy problems caused by delays, given the hardship and suspension of rights involved. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say which 10 nations have the largest life expectancy for (a) men and (b) women and what the figure ism each case. 
Is he also able to say whether the Japanese life expectancy has increased dramatically in the past 30 years; if so, will he ascertain the reasons for this increase and advise the House. 
Is it a fact that Australia's expectation of life reached a plateau in the early 1970s and is now falling slightly; if so, will he ascertain the reasons and advise the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the current rate of illiteracy in Australia. 
What steps are being taken to overcome this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the following proposals for the administration of civil marriage celebrants: (a) that a course of preparation to be set up for celebrants, (b) that selection of celebrants take place annually following a procedure including interview by a panel including celebrants and representatives of the local community, (c) that the handbook for celebrants be progressively revised and issued in a loose-leaf edition, (d) that fees be set by an arbitrator from the Arbitration Commission and indexed, (e) that celebrants be consulted prior to changes in the Family Law Act or the interpretation of the Act, (f) that the interpretation be consistent at Registrar level throughout the Commonwealth, (g) that more detailed guidelines be established for prescribed authorities in shortening the month's notice for marriage, (h) that prescribed authorities be appointed from among the civil celebrants and/or independent persons available out of hours, and (i) that celebrants be appointed to the Family Law Council. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take on each of these proposals. 
-Whilst I am always glad to see the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  at the table I must say that I take it amiss that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is not with us. It is not just insulting to the Opposition but insulting to the Parliament as a whole that he is not here personally. I am happy to second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill demonstrates the failure of this Government to give public transport sufficiently high priority and its incapacity to grasp that transport is the nexus which links together all the elements of modern lifeeducation, manufacturing, retailing, entertainment and leisure activities. The Government has failed to articulate a coherent transport policy linked around effective systems of public transport. In fact, with the exception of New 
South Wales, public transport usage is declining, everywhere in Australia and the tendency shows no signs of reversing. Similarly, the Government has failed to evolve a compelling national energy policy and as a result per capita energy consumption is increasing in private transport at a dme when every consideration of national security ought to compel a reduction. 
Of course we are partly victims of our own history and of our own peculiar urban tradition. As Arthur Koestler once wrote: 
Australia is a suburban continent; its cities spread shapelessly like ink on blotting paper because there is such a vast amount of empty space available. 
The urban sprawl makes it very difficult to provide effective public transport systems. Let me illustrate by referring to the city that I know best- Melbourne. The situation can be replicated in all our major cities. We have never had a debate as a nation about the relative merits of the compact city compared to the expanded city. I have often said that Melbourne's transport story should be entitled a  Tale of Two Cities  but I understand that the title has already been copyrighted by an English novelist. There is 'Old Melbourne', which is the pre- World War II city which grew up around public transport links, and 'New Melbourne', one of the world's worst examples of uncontrolled urban sprawl which is essentially car based. The tragedy is that the two Melbournes do not make a single satisfactory transport unit. For example, 'Old Melbourne' would be destroyed by more radial freeways, but equally 'New Melbourne' lacks satisfactory transport alternatives to the car. The transport interests of Old and New Melbourne are inimical to each other. 
Melbourne's suburbs grew around a radial public transport system which served the city well until the 1950s. Our present suburban train and tram system in Melbourne has barely changed since 1926. In that year most Melbourne people lived close to train lines, tram lines and bus services. Access to transport determined the choice of homes, schools, work and, in many cases, of a husband or wife. Most fixed rail services terminated in the central business district which was then Melbourne's geographic and population centre. In 1945, Melbourne's 1.3 million people took a total of 543 million journeys in trains, trams and buses- an average of 418 journeys per head per annum. After World War II, with the increasing domination of Melbourne by the private car, the city expanded, particularly to the north-east, east and southeast. I am sure that the story is much the same in Sydney. 
By 1975 Melbourne's population was 2.6 million, but the passenger journeys on public transport had fallen to 243 million- exactly 300 million less- on average of only 80 journeys per head per annum. The Melbourne transportation district had expanded to an area of 6,133 square kilometres, making it one of the world's biggest cities, with a very low population density of about 424 persons per square kilometre. It is generally estimated that a population density of between 1,200 and 1,500 persons per square kilometre is needed to make public transport financially viable. 
After 1945 the radial system of trains and trams became increasingly irrelevant to many families. The central business district was no longer Melbourne's geographic or population centre. The population moved towards the south-east. A large proportion of the population moved into the interstices between the radial lines of Melbourne's public transport system. The goal of the Labor Party in Victoria is to ensure that Melbourne's citizens receive the greatest benefit from the radial system by integrating the circumferential links so as to create a grid system. Melbourne is divided into transport rich' and 'transport poor' areas. My own electorate of Lalor is nothing less than a transport slum. It is true that there are radial links from areas like St Albans, Werribee and Deer Park into the central business district, but that is not where the work force is now employed. Curiously public transport in many ways has become the preserve of the middle class. A large proportion of public transport commuters to the central business district are professionals whereas working class people are not provided with public transport links to where they are going to work. Of 50 State electorates in the Melbourne transportation district, there are 1 13 million outward rail passenger journeys each year but more than half of them come from only 14 electorates. 
The Victorian Ministry of Transport estimated in 1976 that 81.6 per cent of passenger vehicular journeys in Melbourne are by car, 4. 1 per cent by private bus, 1.4 per cent by tramway or railway bus, 6.5 per cent by train and 6.4 per cent by tram. By 1975, 65 per cent of all commuters, including school and tertiary students, travelled by car to work. The central business district was the only area where a majority of commuters, perhaps 70 per cent, travelled by public transport. I must say that the Melbourne underground railway loop gives a salutary warning of a State enterprise entered into without having been properly thought out. I think advice from the 
Commonwealth could have been of great assistance in this matter. It is a $300m tragicomedy- a memorial to an edifice complex based on a complete transport misconception. It is designed to provide more rapid movement around the central business district for passengers who are already in the suburban railway system but without in any way increasing the catchment area which would bring people into the system. It is a magnificent piece of civil engineering worthy to rank, I think, with the pyramids of Egypt and the catacombs of Rome, but it is hard to see how it will place one more bottom on one more seat in the Melbourne suburban system. 
I once asked the Victorian Minister of Transport whether he could give the names and addresses of people who currently are not rail users but who would become rail users when the loop opened. The Minister declined to give an answer. It seems to me as silly as spending a lot of time fixing up the two front legs of a horse and then saying: 'We will not bother about the two back legs; they will get dragged along with the front legs'. We have a system which will be magnificent at one end but which does not provide for more people being able to use the system. Nevertheless, I do believe that the loop has enormous potential tourist appeal and it may have great defence significance. 
-It is under Parliament House. The Australian Bureau of Statistics reported that the amount of traffic on Australian roads has increased by 133 per cent since 1963. What we have to ask is this: Are we prepared to accept the inevitability of a 10 per cent annual increase in road traffic use in perpetuity- a doubling every decade? Since 1971 traffic growth has outstripped population growth by a ratio of five to one. It is curious that a greater distance is travelled by Victorian vehicles than by vehicles in any other State. I take it that that is largely made up by people who live and work around the metropolitan area but who are travelling longer and longer distances. It seems extraordinary that the smallest of mainland States should have the longest average distance travelled by a vehiclelonger than Western Australia and longer than Queensland. But that is what the statistics show. Traffic surveys indicate that an increasing number of commuters travel on cross-city or even inter-city journeys. In Victoria many commuters live in Geelong, Gisborne or Warrigul and travel to work to Melbourne each day. The average distance travelled each day has increased sharply in the last 30 years. 
Melbourne has about 100 kilometres of freeway- only 1.25 per cent of the total sealed road surface. Universal experience is that freeways are essentially traffic generators which encourage more road use. The main impact of increased demand for motoring space generated by freeways ultimately is felt on conventional roads. That is the situation in Los Angeles. The cure becomes worse than the disease. Radial or commuter freeways originally were planned on the assumptions of unlimited access to cheap motor fuel by all motorists and universal car ownership in the community. Radial freeways direct cars from an enormous catchment area with low density and cheap car parking towards a small central area with very high density and very expensive car parking. As car dependence increases, the need for more car parking space in the central business district reduces the areas available for shops, theatres, restaurants, hotels and services other than parking, or it makes their cost prohibitively high. Dependence on private car usage and city diversity of use will become increasingly incompatible. Inner city areas are too valuable for human interaction to be used as storage areas for cars every day. The Melbourne central business district and the area immediately surrounding it has 31,000 car parking places. Sydney has only 1 9,000. 
In an enclosed transport system such as Melbourne's road network or the network of any city- even Hobart which once had two systems but now that the Derwent bridge is repaired it tends to be more integrated- total energy input and mobility tend to be in inverse proportion. If 90 per cent of Melbourne's 1 million motor vehicles were competing simultaneously for 8,000 kilometres of sealed road, mobility would fall towards zero. If only 50 per cent were in use, freedom of movement would increase. If only 10 per cent of our vehicles were in use, mobility would tend to move towards 100 per cent. Public transport policy should recognise the technique of energy analysis based on the first and second laws of thermodynamics. 
The Melbourne metropolitan transport district has 11,418 kilometres of road. That is nearly 8,000 kilometres of sealed road and nearly 3,500 kilometres of unsealed road to accommodate an estimated 1 million motor vehicles- an average sealed road space of less than 8 metres for each vehicle or 16 metres for each vehicle on a dual carriageway. The present Melbourne metropolitan road system appears to be adequate for about 20 hours each day, but fails during peak hours when the private commuter system is competing for scarce resources of time, space and energy against the public transport commuter system. The Hamer freeway program is based on treating that distortion factor of daily peak demand as if it were characteristic of the entire 24-hour cycle. 
A standard sized sedan such as a Holden or Falcon covers a standing area of 8.92 square metres. By adding a small safety margin at the front, back and both sides, an area of at least IS square metres per vehicle must be allowed for on roads. The Victorian Railways and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board allow an average of .82 square metres for a seated passenger and an average of .28 square metres per person in what they elegantly describe as a 'crush load'. The motorist driving alone has a space requirement of between 1 8 and S3 times the size of the area needed for the train or tram traveller. It is hard to justify giving private motorists somewhere about 30 times the space they need, at public expense, to commute at peak hours in competition with public transport when it is available. It must be admitted that at present public transport is often not appropriate. We have to spend far more money in trying to convert existing public transport networks to make them much more flexible. 
The private car has obvious advantages over public transport. It provides door to door convenience in comfort and relative security. To many people a car is an external support to their own sense of identity- an extension of personality or home, preserving a sense of independence, of privacy, while others see the car as a hobby and driving as a form of recreation rather than a transport mode. But we are generally victims of auto-eroticism in Australia. We must reverse that condition. As a nation we cannot afford to go on increasing by 10 per cent each year the amount of road space and fuel that we need. 
The private motor car represents poor value for money when it is used for commuting when adequate public transport is available. Total travelling time becomes much higher at peak hours with heavy wastage of fuel and nervous energy. Driving causes strain and anxiety for drivers and pedestrians alike. The Commonwealth Government ought to be pushing the State governments towards converting existing radial systems into grid systems. Traditionally fixed ran radial systems were very good but are now no longer adequate for the cities. Grid systems give greater flexibility and increase route choices without necessarily increasing the number of train or tram services on each line. The total distances travelled after modal interchange may be longer but the elapsed time in reaching one's destination will be shorter. 
The great advantage of a grid system is the use of interchanges to permit rapid transfer from one radial line to another. The suburban rail systems of London, Paris, Moscow, New York, Tokyoand should be to give examples of cities of Melbourne's size and population- Montreal and Toronto, are based on the grid. There ought to be a common ticketing system so that a single fare will permit interchanges. It is a curious fact that the Melbourne suburban railway network has 16 lines- the same number as the Paris Metro. Melbourne actually has more length of track than Paris, having 489.5 kilometres of track and 266 stations but only five major interchanges. All of them- Flinders Street, Spencer Street, Princes Bridge, North Melbourne and Richmond- are close to the central business district. Paris has only 172 kilometres of track with 341 stations, but 124 of them are interchanges, widely spaced throughout the city. Paris has a 70 per cent usage of rail transport and Melbourne has 6.5 per cent. 
I was talking about the need to apply the technique of energy analysis. The first law of thermodynamics states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed but is in a constant state of change. The second law states that energy can appear in two forms; the first is work energy and the second is free energy, also called 'entropy'. As work energy decreases entropy increases. We tend to be energy gluttons, using energy grossly in excess of what we need. Many commuters drive alone in eight or six cylinder cars with seating for five or six people and using enough energy for a small bus. In a traffic jam the entire energy value of the fuel appears as entropy, not work energy, because the car cannot move. Entropy is expressed as heat, vibration, noise and many other factors, not as movement. Thermodynamically the car is a heat engine. It is very efficient in producing heat, pollution, vibration and noise, but relatively inefficient in producing movement by friction. 
An efficient metropolitan transport system should be based in the short term on the philosophy: 'move people . . . not vehicles'. In the longer term we should adopt the philosophy: move information, goods and services according to need . . . and people according to desire'. If we are serious about a national energy policy, this Government and this Parliament ought to be saying loud and clear to the State governments in Australia, 'We want you to promote public transport; we want to try if we can to contain this figure of 10 per cent increase in fuel use and road use every year'. The economy cannot support it and, more than that, the whole national security of this country cannot afford it. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 978: 
With reference to the answer of the Minister for Administrative Services to question No. 644  (Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 30S), how many persons are employed on the 262.188 hectare site of the Deer Park Weapons Research Establishment. 
What is the range of weapons tested, and how often does this occur. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
With respect to the proposed telecommunications centre in Melbourne. 
a) What is the cost of the proposed centre. 
what is its location. 
What is the area of the site. 
What is the total capacity of the centre. 
e ) How many persons will be employed there. 
What was the total capacity of the facilities which will be replaced by the centre. 
How many persons were employed in the facilities which will be replaced. 
Will the centre make use of micro-electronic devices such as micro-processors; if so, why is it necessary to increase the space requirements for Telecom. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Who is the newly appointed Concert Manager for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in NSW and what was the date of his appointment. 
How many persons applied for the position and how many were more senior than the appointee. 
Is the appointee a close relative of a senior official of the ABC 's administration in NSW. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) Will he take action to establish a postbox in Chirnside Avenue, Werribee, Victoria near the Walwa Place corner, to serve the area south of College Road and west of Duncan's Road. 
If so, when will he do so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Further to the answer to question No. 1509  (Hansard,  25 October 1978, page 2324), of the 403 knighthoods and dameships awarded since 1 January 1950 on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Government, how many in each category of knighthood or dameship were awarded to persons who had been (a) Liberal Party Members of Parliament, (b) National or National Country Party Members of Parliament and (c) Australian Labor Party Members of Parliament in the Commonwealth and State Parliaments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
What are the details of the sum and disposition of funds from the Office of Child Care,Department of Social Security, for Children's Services Development Officers during 
1978-79 to date, 
1977-78, 
1976-77, and 
1975-76. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report  L'informatisation de la societe  commissioned by President Giscard d "Estaing of France, prepared by M. M. Simon Nora and Alain Mine, and published in 1978. 
If so, is the Nora Report being examined by Government Departments to consider the relevance of its conclusions about the implications of job displacement to Australia, and which departments are making the examination. 
If no examination is being made, what is the reason. 
Will he take steps to provide access to an English translation of the Nora Report and its 7 volumes of appendices for those Members who are not fluent in French. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the text of the 1st Boyer Lecture broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission for 1 978 by  Sir Gustav  Nossal. 
If so, can he state whether (a) smallpox is no longer extant and (b) there have been no recorded cases for some years, apart from the recent deaths arising from experimentation in a Birmingham medical laboratory. 
Is smallpox vaccination non-compulsory for overseas travellers; if so, on what basis. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry able to inform the House when he will make his statement of exoneration to the House in respect of matters which are currently the subject of investigation by the New South Wales Commissioner of Corporate Affairs? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1 978: 
1 ) What progress has been made on the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections for the establishment of a National Aviation Museum. 
Is location of the museum at Point Cook being favourably viewed. 
What steps are being taken to preserve and acquire the various aircraft available in the country for the museum's collection. 
-The statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is essentially superficial and he did not set the context in which the statement was made, that Australia is a democratic island in an authoritarian ocean and we are a wealthy enclave in an area which has had an extremely poor economic base but which is now rising rapidly. Superficial though the Minister's statement is, there is little for the Opposition to sink its collective teeth into. This is because foreign policy has become virtually a bipartisan area in Australia during the past six years or so. It was not always so. We all remember the elections fought in 1955, 1958, 1961, 1963 and 1966 with heavy emphasis from the Liberal-Country Party coalition on the horrors of the downward thrust of communism, red arrows streaking down from Peking to Potts Point, from Shanghai to Sandringham and from Canton to Coolangatta, sometimes accompanied by a graphic showing pyramids of human heads. In those days the Menzies Government uttered the fearful cry 'the Chinese are corning! '. But now the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  rubs his hands with glee and- says, 'the Chinese are coming, hurrah, hurrah', and it is a completely different situation. 
It was only in July 1971 when  Sir William  McMahon, expressed something like horror when Gough Whitlam announced that he was going to visit the People's Republic of China. If I may, I would like to quote briefly what he said in 197 1, not by way of criticism of the right honourable gentleman, but to indicate changes in attitude over the last eight years. When  Mr Whitlam  went to China the then Prime Minister was reported in the  Age  on 1 3 July 1 97 1 as follows: 
I doubt if I have ever read such a damaging and irresponsible series of declarations by any political leader in all my time in politics in Australia. 
I feel it is time to expose the shams and the absurdities surrounding  Mr Whitlam  's excursion into 'instant coffee' diplomacy. 
The Whitlam policy would isolate Australia from its friends and allies not only in South East Asia and the Pacific, but in other parts of the Western world. 
This policy must be disowned. 
We must not become pawns of the giant communist power in our region. 

 Mr McMahon said the Labor mission to China had begun as an ingenuous exercise by the ALP to play party politics with wheat sales to China. He accused the then Leader of the Opposition of allowing himself to be used as a spokesman for North Vietnam and China at the Paris peace talks. 
But I think there has been a revolutionary change in attitude since then. In 1971, when foreign policy was a matter of bitter domestic contention in Australia, the then Government had a world view which very largely reflected fear and ignorance of almost paranoid intensity within the Australian community. This was particularly illustrated by public attitudes to our mad involvement in Vietnam. I think perhaps the major achievement of the Whitlam Government in the period from 1972 to 1975 was the achievement of a political revolution in Australia's foreign policy. For practical purposes we now have a bipartisan policy and I think we all agree with that. Australian foreign policy in the Menzies era was based on these premises: 
That Australia should pursue economic and social policies that were reflections of those of the United Kingdom and the United States, its great and powerful friends, and had no need to cultivate close relations with Asia. In his long term as Prime Minister from 1949 to 1966  Sir Robert  Menzies made one brief official visit to Japan and, I think, visited no other Asian country. 
That the communist states of the world are essentially monolithic and that, for example, Yugoslavia, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Vietnam and China had identical aims and worked virtually under a unified command. 
Australia faced a likelihood of involvement in a World War III precipitated by the communist powers. 
The South East Asia Treaty Organisation would be an effective instrument for Australia. 
Chiang Kai-shek's regime in Taiwan was to be recognised as the legitimate government of China. 
Ho Chi Minh was a mere agent of Peking or Moscow or both. 
The United States was to be supported in its refusal to recognise the People's Republic of China or to admit it to the United Nations. 
Supporting and maintaining an anticommunist regime in South Vietnam would prove to be an effective means of containing China. 
Non-communist nationalist movements in Asia could be supported effectively by military and economic aid and by gestures of solidarity. 
All these views, with the benefit of hindsight, now seem absurd, and yet they were sold to, and bought by, the Australian electors. Who would defend any of these propositions today? The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  might defend some of them but not all, I think. We were, of course, largely the victims of our own ignorance and our official channels of advice were simply unable, or unwilling, to grasp, for example, the fundamental significance of the polycentrism within the communist movement throughout the world and in particular did not understand the significance of the SinoSoviet split. The present Prime Minister, who in the 1960s was the rising hope of the stern unbending Santamarians over China, is now an advocate of closer relations with the People's Republic of China and has applauded the Carter Administration's recent recognition. 
I was disappointed to find very little reference in the Minister's statement to China. Reference was made to China in the context of the war in Vietnam but there was no reference to the enormous significance, both domestically and outside, of the political changes that have been going on in China. This is something about which this Parliament ought to have been better informed. I understand that  Mr Deng  Xiaoping, the Senior Vice-Premier, will be visiting New Guinea sometime in the course of 1979 but I have heard no indication that he will be coming to Australia. 
-Well, after all,  Mr Deng  Xiaoping has visited all of the ASEAN powers in the last few months. I would like to know whether the Government has considered issuing an invitation. I think it is very important that he should be here and that he should understand something more of Australian society. 
I think that we need to understand the Chinese fear at this stage. The Chinese position is similar in some ways perhaps to the state of mind that existed in the USSR at the beginning of the Cold War period. The feeling is that geographically and globally they are completely encircled. When the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  and I paid a state visit to China in July 1978, we were both struck- and this is a highly bipartisan comment- by the widespread fear, which was expressed everywhere we went, about the Soviet Union. That is not to say that that fear is justified objectively. But it is perceived to be the case. When we both visited the Peking Construction Tool Plant, I was amazed to be taken down to see underground shelters and to be told that throughout the Chinese People's Republic every major building has its own air raid shelter. The air raid shelter that we saw was planned to hold 2,500 employees. It seemed to be an extraordinary misuse of labour, materials and energy when one thinks of the physical needs of the people. One realises how much in terms of labour, energy and building materials has been deployed to provide air raid shelters of this kind which have been built in the universal belief that there will be a World War III and on the rather odd concept that the USSR would lack such restraint that it would initiate a war between major powers while at the same time exercising restraint in the weapons it used. That is, the Chinese thought that the USSR would not make a pre-emptive strike using atomic weapons. 
I pointed out that the underground shelter appeared to be utterly inappropriate for atomic attack. When we asked them where they would get their water supply from, they said: 'Oh, we have enough water to stay down here for months; we draw the water from wells. ' When I asked: 'Yes, but what if there is an atomic attack?', they answered: 'Oh, we can survive that by staying down here- we have food enough to last for months.' I queried: 'Yes, but what about water?'. They said: 'Well, what is wrong with it?' I asked: 'What about radioactivity?' The interpreter explained about radioactive significance and  Mr Tien  Chung-chen, the officer in charge of this underground shelter, sat back for a minute and then said: 'That is all right; we have pills for that. We put pills in the water and that looks after the radioactivity.' That seemed to me to be an alarmingly naive view about what would happen in atomic war. In China at the moment there is enormous fear of the Soviet Union. That fear is exacerbated by the presence of Russian vessels at the Cam Ranh Bay base and in the South China Sea. 
Accusations were made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)-  and we would have taken them more seriously perhaps if they had been uttered by someone else- to the effect that the Opposition was taking a pro-Soviet position. That is an absurdity. The Labor Party is very anxious to take a completely even-handed position. There is no question from our point of view that China must get out of Vietnam and that Vietnam must get out of Kampuchea. The problem, though, that has not yet been facedand perhaps we have not faced it fully ourselves- is the question of what is going to fill the vacuum in Kampuchea if the Vietnamese forces pull out. It is difficult to believe that it would be possible to resuscitate the Pol Pot regime but there is undoubtedly a vacuum there that would be filled by someone. I suspect that, even if the Vietnamese did withdraw, it might not be very long before they were back in again. 
There were some extraordinary omissions, I thought, in the paper presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is not one word on the Vietnamese refugee question. There is a throwaway line that used the word 'refugee' once in the context of Vietnam. But there is no examination of the significance of the Vietnamese refugee question to Australia. That is one of the issues which whilst it may not be dividing this Parliament, is certainly dividing the people of Australia out in the electorate. I think that the Government has lacked responsibility in not addressing itself in this speech to the question of the Vietnamese refugee problem and what it proposed to do about it both in the long term and in the short term. That is one area in which Australia could take an important role. 
There is no reference in the Foreign Minister's speech to the China-Japan Treaty. The implications of the China- Japan Treaty are profound for us. Will it, for example, mean increased opportunities for Australia to trade with the most populous trade combination in the world covering about 1,100 million people or will it simply mean a threat to Australia's trading position whereby in the long term China sells raw materials to Japan instead of us and imports higher technology in return? This is a vitally important question. The Government has had months and months to think about the implications for Australia in trading matters and we should have had some reference to it in the Minister's statement. But we have not had a single word. 
We have had no reference to the IndonesianTimor situation. There are many people in this Parliament, some of them on the other side of the House, who are deeply concerned by the attitude of the Government towards the situation in East 
Timor and who deplore the actions taken by the Indonesian Government. But we hear nothing of this matter. Not a word appears in this statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the subject. It is true that the Minister had dealt with some issues. But he has dealt with them superficially. We have had not a word about the economic significance of economic development in South East Asia, largely through investment by multinationals and the implications that this has for the future of Australia's manufacturing industry. It is true that, in a situation like this, there are optimistic and pessimistic points of view to be put. But this Government puts no point of view at all; and that is exactly the sort of material that ought to have been in a statement put out by the Minister. 
It is extraordinary, of course, that in China, we have had a strong move from ideology towards pragmatism, and that, in Iran we have had a great move from pragmatism back to ideology. I do not share the enthusiasm of the honourable member for St George for the government of the Ayatollah Khomeini. It may be that its social views coincide with his own. I doubt that many Australians would share such a view. It is important for us to think of Iran in its own terms, in its own context and in its own place in the Middle East and not simply think of Iran as a source of potential raw material for us at cheap prices. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct the attention of the House to the words of the Nobel Prize winning economist, Professor Wassily Leontief of the Harvard University, in his essay 'Issues of the Coming Years',  Economic Impact  No. 24 1978/4. He writes: 
If one were asked to single out the force that has contributed more than any other to the phenomenal economic growth of the last 200 years, one would answer, technological change. It was, however, the newly invented power loom that deprived thousands of English weavers of their jobs about 160 years ago. Today the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. is installing automatic switching equipment that will permit it to handle the anticipated increase in the volume of long-distance calls and reduce the number of long-distance operators. 
The fact that machines do displace labour cannot be questioned. But many economic theorists (Karl Marx was not one of them!) hastened to point out that at the time of the Luddite rebellions that this displacement did not mean that the total demand for labour and total employment had to diminish. An equal or even larger number of new jobs, these theorists claimed, would necessarily be created in the machinebuilding and subsidiary industries. But is this so? 
The answer to that question is of crucial importance for the understanding of the economic, social and political problems faced by labour in times of accelerated technological advance. 
I am glad that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is at the table. Leontief continued: 
That answer is 'No'. New machines, new technology introduced because it cuts production costs can indeed reduce the total demand for labour, that is, the total number of jobs available in all sectors of the economy taken together at any given price of labour- in other words, at any given wage rate. 
To use a somewhat crass and even shocking analogy, new machines can reduce the total demand for human labour for the same reason and essentially through the same process that, a generation ago, led to the replacement of draught horses by trucks, tractors and automobiles. To argue that workers displaced by machines should necessarily be able to find work building these machines makes no more sense that to expect the horses displaced by mechanical vehicles to have been employed directly or indirectly, in various branches of the expanding automotive industry. 
That process is speeded up by the process of miniaturisation. I do not believe that the economic significance of miniaturisation has been properly recognised. I think that it should give cause to those who think we can learn from the experience of the past. I suspect that we cannot, that the nature and rate of technological change are not strictly comparable with any past development. For example, Watt's steam engine forced many workhorses into premature retirement, but it created jobs for the men who made the machines, operated them, maintained them, built the factories to house them, dug up the coal and supplied the water which ran them. But suppose that one of Watt's contemporaries had produced a steam engine of equal capacity which required little maintenance or supervision, virtually no fuel, could be bought cheaply, and was small enough to be slipped into a coat pocket. Is it suggested that such an invention would not have had significant consquences on work demand? Imagine, for the benefit of National Country Party members, a cow which gave abundant milk 24 hours a day, was not dependent on good pastures, kept itself clean and could be carried around in a handbag. Would that not have represented a significant change in employment in agriculture?  Mr Deputy Speaker  recognises that. 
Just to give the House something else cheerful to think about before we go home, I was struck by a quotation in the December 1978 edition of  Datamation  by the European editor, Rolf Emmett who wrote: 
Today IBM has a backlog of more than four times the computing power it has ever shipped. Or, put another way, IBM's backlog is greater than the total computing capacity ever used on this planet. 
Remember the motto for IBM is 'Think'. The management of IBM has been thinking. We have to start thinking too. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Finance. I refer to the Minister's statement to the House yesterday, recorded on page 346 of  Hansard,  in which he said in part: 
 I am deeply conscious of my responsibilities to the Liberal Party, to the Government and to the Prime Minister. 
Earlier he said that his reappointment would be:   far the best course for the well being of the Liberal Party and the Government of Australia. 
I ask: What place, if any, does the Parliament have, in the Minister's order of priorities concerning his ministerial responsibilities? Why does he believe that his first responsibility is to the Liberal Party and to the Prime Minister rather than to the Parliament? 
-Not for the first time, I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I only hope that when  Mr Justice  Woodward was cross-examined by the honourable member  His  Honour had the assistance of counsel to represent him. I wish to draw the attention of the House to a remarkable article on the 1977 Federal election campaign. This article is extraordinarily instructive but it seems to have been largely ignored in debate both in this  chamber and outside in the electorate. In the  Australian Financial Review  of 14 December 1977, on page one, the words 'How the job was done' appeared above a photograph of  Mr Len  Reason. The article was headed 'The selling of Malcolm Fraser'. It was written by Valerie Lawson. I think the article is instructive because it illustrates very clearly the basic differences between the philosophical approaches of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party and the two competing value systems that run through those parties. The article by Valerie Lawson states: 
The Liberal Party's $ 1.6m 'hip pocket nerve' advertising campaign was based on a unique appeal of selfishness combined with altruism, according to a booklet to be published next week by the party's advertising agency. 
Backing tax cuts all the way, the Liberal Party took a punt by discarding research results showing unemployment as the major issue. 
You can't take everything everyone says at face value,' says agency Masius in the publication. 
Research didn't immediately surface tax as an issue after the Labor Party policy speech, but that didn't worry us . . . 
If someone with a clipboard and horn-rimmed glasses knocks at your front door and asks your favourite pastime, you are more likely to say reading historical novels than having sex. 
And if someone asks you what the key issue in an election is, you are more likely to attest to your virtue by tut-tutting "unemployment" than by confessing your avarice with a vote for tax cuts.' 
The booklet, written by Masius  chairman Mr Len  Reason, - 
I interpolate that he will be the gentleman who will be directing the Liberal Party campaign in the State election in Victoria for his friend  Mr Hamer-  outlines how the Liberals' campaign appealed directly to the hip pocket nerve' and how the Liberals were 'merchandised' through the establishment of an answering service pandering to the electorate 's greed for tax concessions. 
They are not ashamed about it. They are quite pleased about it. The article continues: 

 Mr Reason states in the publication that the Liberals' campaign offered voters an opportunity to be selfish and altruistic at the same time - 
That is a classic example of a contradiction in terms. I notice that in the  Oxford English Dictionary  the definition of altruism is 'devotion to the welfare of others; regard for others, as a principle of action; opposed to egoism or selfishness'. But in this article the Liberal Party advisers talk about a combination of being selfish and altruistic at the same time-  altruistic because they can support their financial motivation while giving help to the unemployed by taking money. 
The article continues: 
He claims people became 'franker' as they grasped this very acceptable proposition '. 
Next, the booklet says, the problem was how to communicate that comforting thought to the populace at large. 
Conventional advertising was too passive. 
At this point our commercial experience took over, and we remembered a word one should never forgetmerchandising! ' it says. 
That is 'the an of taking a step from the advertising towards the consumer, so that he needs only one step to reach you instead of two. 
The answer leapt at us- set up an answering service where people could ring and find out how much the tax cuts would mean to them individually.' 
In the Masius booklet, titled 'The anatomy of a political merchandising idea',  Mr Reason  says the agency's major problem was overcoming the boredom of the uncommitted voter faced with yet another election. 
This, however, was not a new experience for advertising men, who 'spend a great deal of their lives giving the kiss of life to commercial propositions that often look very blue in the face indeed'. 
Almost the only aspect of the Liberals' campaign which remained set throughout the entire election period was its deliberate lack of sophistication  Mr Reason  says. 
How well they know their market. I hope that the same success that was achieved in 1977 will not be achieved in the Victorian election on 5 May. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry satisfied that all loans made by State authorities pursuant to the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act 1976 comply with the conditions laid down in the Schedule to the Act? Specifically, is he satisfied that all such loans comply with restrictions on company access to loans, required repayment of a loan when the borrower is no longer dependent on concessional interest finance, and the lender of last resort provision of the Act? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Have many Australian feature films, of historical and artistic significance, been lost or destroyed. 
If so, are the films  Those Who  Love (1926) and  Two Minutes Silence  (1933) produced by the McDonagh sisters among the lost feature films. 
Will he take action to draw attention to the importance of finding lost films and to strengthen the Australian Film Archive. 
Will he circulate libraries, museums, teaching institutions and other public bodies with lists of missing films in an attempt to fill in the gaps in our national film heritage. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Did he tender written advice to the then GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, in respect of the granting of a double dissolution of the Parliament in November 1975. 
If so, was the advice tendered before or after the proclamation of the dissolution. 
Does he intend to table all relevant documents relating to the 1975 double dissolution as was done with respect to the double dissolutions of 1914, 1951, and 1974. 
If so, when will they be tabled; if not, why not. 
Because there are only two minutes left, unfortunately my colleagues are going to be deprived of the opportunity to speak. I wish to use the two minutes that remain just to mark in this national Parliament the fact that next Wednesday, 14 March 1979, will be the centenary of the birth of Albert Einstein. Einstein is holding his place in scientific history as perhaps the greatest scientific mind of this millennium. He was a man who contributed more to our knowledge of the universe than any other. He was also profoundly conscious of the significance of the terrible discovery that he made of the famous equation E = MC2. Before anybody else he recognised and measured very precisely the terrible power that could be unleashed on the world by the use of atomic energy. Although he was one of the people who suggested to Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1939 that it was essential that the Allies develop an atomic bomb before Nazi Germany, he always campaigned against the spread of nuclear weapons. Those uranium maniacs that we haveand there are plenty in this Parliament and the community outside- ought to think very carefully of what Einstein stood for and his role as a man of peace. He was horrified by the devastating potential power that science had brought to the world- 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Which countries accord formal diplomatic recognition to (a) North Korea, (b) South Korea, (c) neither, and (d) both. 
Which countries accord formal diplomatic recognition to (a) the People's Republic of China (Peking), (b) The Republic of China (Taipeh), (c) neither, and (d) both. 
Which countries formally recognise (a) The Federal Republic of Germany, (b) the Democratic Republic of Germany, (c) neither, and (d) both. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Is an agreement for scientific and technological cooperation being negotiated between the Peoples' Republic of China and Australia similar to that which has already been signed between the Peoples ' Republic of China and the United States of America. 
With which countries does Australia have similar agreements either (i) in force or (ii) under negotiation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Can he advise of the nature and dates of framework commercial agreements that the European Economic Community has made with other countries (e.g. China and Canada). 
Has Australia entered into similar agreements; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 27 February, 1979: 
With respect to the celebrated voyage of the S.S.  Duneera  in 1939-40, bringing Jewish and German refugees and some prisoners of war to Australia, (a) what records (i) have been kept and (ii) are available for public inspection, in the Australian Archives, and (b) what restrictions are there on access to the available records. 
Is it a fact that the British Government has opened all its  Duneera  records to public inspection. 
) If this is not the case in Australia, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total number of persons of Maltese origin in Victoria. 
How many live in the Electoral Division of Lalor and what percentage of the total Victorian residents of Maltese origin does this number constitute. 
Has his attention been drawn to the work of the Malta Star of the Sea Welfare and Cultural Centre in St. Albans, Victoria. 
If so, will he give sympathetic consideration to the request of that organisation to provide a welfare worker for the St. Albans area. 
When can a decision on the organisation's application for assistance be expected. 
-Has the Treasurer seen the latest Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Press release on the trend in consumer prices? Do these figures indicate that the inflation rate in Australia for the six months to January 1979 was 8.7 per cent and that the OECD average was 7.3 per cent? Does this mean that Australia's international competitiveness is being further eroded and that the Government is now failing in its claim to have lowered inflation in Australia? 
-I will be voting for the Simon motion and against the Lusher motion. According to the census returns, the electoral division of Lalor is the most Catholic in Australia, with the highest proportion of migrant families from Europe. Lalor has an unusually high average number of children per family- nearly double the national average. I have received from my constituents hundreds of cards in favour of the Lusher motion and almost none against it. I am a Christian but not a Catholic. Nevertheless, I share the Catholic abhorrence of abortion. I would do all that I could to dissuade individual women from having abortions and to provide all possible servicesmedical, counselling, home help- so that they could go ahead with their pregnancies without fear. I hate all violence and killing. I am close to the absolute pacifist position. Much of my time and energy has been devoted to securing the abolition of the death penalty in Australia and, as many people have put to me, I should also act to protect 'innocent lives within the womb'. 
Those are compelling reasons, and I have sympathy and respect for many people in the RighttoLife organisation. It is paradoxical, of course, that many 'Right-to-Lifers' are also supporters of the death penalty. It is a matter of conscience for 'Right-to-Lifers' and it is a matter of conscience for me too. All of us are impaled on the horns of the abortion dilemma. Just as I respect the right of others to their conscientious position, I expect others to grant me the same right. I have agonised over the question for many years. I intend to vote against the Lusher motion and, in addressing my own electors, I adopt the words of Edmund Burke: 
Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but his judgment: and he betrays instead of serving you if he sacrifices it to your opinion. 
If my electors disagree with my exercise of judgment and conscience, the remedy is in their own hands. 
The House of Represenatative is the only allmale lower House in any democratic national parliament throughout the world. I believe that it is preposterous and pretentious for us to be pontificating about what rights the other sex should have over their reproductive capacity. The only certain thing is that not one of us will ever be pregnant. If an all-female assembly were to pass laws, Lysistrata-like, determining the sexual rights of males there would be considerable consternation among men. 
The male role in bringing about a pregnancy is short and usually easy, and after that brief moment he may refuse to take any further moral or physical responsibility. He certainly has no further physiological role. The female role is long, protracted, and may last for years. There is an utter inequality of responsibility and sacrifice so far as pregnancy is concerned, and it is extraordinary to find that there are members of an allmale parliament who say: 'Let us vote to sustain that imbalance'. It would be a moral outrage if women who did not want to abort were forced, cajoled or coerced into doing so. But I am also concerned about a situation where girls and women are told by some bureaucrat that they are compelled to go through with a pregnancy that they fear and hate. I do not ignore the rights of the foetus, but I cannot concede that a 3-week foetus has equivalent rights to those of a 16 yearold girl. 
The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  gave an example illustrating how the use of language can be strained beyond its natural limits. Honourable members will remember the words of Lewis Carroll's Humpty Dumpty: Words mean what we want them to mean, nothing more or less'. The honourable member for Tangney asked the question: Are all life forms equal but some are more equal than others? The answer is unequivocally yes, from my point of view. There was a major logical flaw in what was said by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  last night, and I quote him: 
If we accept that the foetus lives, the rights of both the foetus and the mother cannot be protected at once; and I give my priority to the unrepresented and unprotected unborn, with the exception stipulated in the motion - that is: 
To protect the life of the mother from a physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way. 
But the exception constitutes a complete reversal of the general principle. In logic, it is exactly the same as saying that two is always greater than one, but in cases of emergency one becomes greater than two. So the honourable member for Perth makes an absolute 180 degree turn in the middle. This illustrates the problem on which we are all impaled. We naturally argue all the time in terms of analogy and that is a problem. Abortion is a peculiarly difficult subject to debate, largely because the life of the foetus has such a limited range of experience that it is hard to equate with our own and we are forced to use analogies in argument. For example, the honourable member for Tangney mentioned the case of the English test tube baby. I thought that was a revealing case. Supposing that in the case of the test tube baby, Louise Brown,  Dr Steptoe  had overturned the test tube so that the impregnated cells fell out. Would that constitute an abortion? In the honourable member's view, yes. In my own view, it would be preposterous to see it as being an abortion. 
Many of the letters I have received, mostly from men demanding that I vote for the Lusher motion, reveal an astonishing confidence in their own judgment. Obviously infallibility is not confined to  His  Holiness the Pope. I am not certain about my own judgment in this matter and it is because I am uncertain that I am voting to maintain the status quo. However, the letters have produced an effect entirely opposite to what their writers intended. I have been appalled by the arrogance and exaggeration of their arguments; for example, the logical slide which goes: Foetus equals human being, therefore abortion equals murder equals genocide; therefore, as one correspondent wrote abortion clinic equals Hitler's death camps. Some, of course, equate abortion with euthanasia. I certainly do not. I am not a euthanasia supporter and I am even an unhappy supporter of the status quo. I also take some exception to the question-begging in using the phrase 'unborn child' that we have heard so often. The term 'unborn child' is an absolute contradiction in terms but it illustrates the prevailing moral and verbal confusion. A child is by definition born and independent, and the phrase unborn child' or even 'pre-bora child' has as much meaning as the phrase 'living corpse' or post-death person'. The Lusher motion attempts to link a moral imperative 'Thou shalt not abort', with an economic sanction 'Do it at your own cost'. That means in practice that the rich can do it but the poor get stuck, a position which is as morally obnoxious to me as the prospect of publicly funded abortion is to others. It is an attempt to regulate morality by using market forces. 
I should like to speak as long as the previous speaker, because I think I am covering new ground, but in order to cut the length of what I am saying I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the first part of an extremely well-balanced article called 'The Predicament' by Mary Gordon, which appeared in the  New York Review of Books  on 20 July 1 978. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  voluntarily restricted himself to 11 minutes. 
-Was there an arrangement? I just say this in passing: There are very grave dangers in arguing from analogy. However, I will take the risk and say that to me the nearest comparison to abortion is suicide. Both involve the destruction of life, both are products of stress, both are examples of inner directed violence, both involve women of child-bearing years and both involve women who have a sense of being overwhelmed by events. Just as I abhor abortion, so I abhor suicide, and I would do all that I could to prevent it. I would decriminalise attempted suicide just as I would decriminalise abortion. Both laws have proved singularly ineffective in preventing abortion or suicide, and any attempt to drag every woman who had an abortion, or every failed suicide, into court to face a possible gaol term, would cause such revulsion in this country that both laws would become dead letters. Both laws only add to the sense of isolation and outlawry felt by the people involved. But the mother who aborts and the failed suicide have much in common. They need our sympathy and support, however much we may deplore what they have done. 
After suicide attempts, women and men routinely go to hospital for treatment. They can claim medical benefits. No doubt the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in his next step towards raising the nation's moral standards by rigorous economy would say: 'Suicide is a very bad thing. Attempted suicides add to the nation's medical bill. Medical costs for attempted suicide should be at a person's own expense. If you can afford a suicide, have it. If you can't, you can't.' If a desperate woman finds herself in the hands of the backyarders because she cannot find a hospital abortion, or if she attempts suicide for the same reason and has to go to the hospital to be patched up, would the compassion of the honourable member for Hume allow her to claim medical benefits, or would he say: 'If she can't pay for treatment, she can't hope for hospital benefits'. 
What is this argument about treatment having to be certified as medically necessary in order to qualify for medical benefits? Who is to make the decision? Should it be the doctor involved, a panel of doctors who do not know the woman in question, a gaggle of public servants, a stipendiary magistrate or a jury of matrons? The qualification is an absurdity. This is a shallow, mean-spirited resolution, and I trust the House will reject it. 
-I ask the Minister for National Development: Has his attention been drawn to published statements that the oil companies are making higher profits under the Fraser Government than under the Whitlam Government? Is it a fact that the end of petrol discounting which resulted from the Minister's meeting with the oil companies on 13 February will produce a further $ 1 50m in income? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
-The employed civilian labour force in November 1970 was 5,361,100- a time of comparatively low unemployment- and in November 1978 it was 5,997,300, an increase of 636,200 despite the comparatively high levels of unemployment. The total civilian labour force in November 1978- those offering for work, including employed and unemployed- was 6,538,700. The actual number of jobs held in Australia was higher than ever before, as was correctly pointed out by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  but there was a widening gap between those offering for work and those actually in work. From about 1945 until 1970 approximately, there was a close correlation between growth rates in GDP or GNP- the gross domestic product or the gross national product- the growth rate of the labour force, and the growth rate of jobs. Since 1970 there has been a continuing correlation between the GDP/GNP growth rate and the growth rate of the labour force, but the growth rate of jobs, whilst still increasing absolutely but only at a low rate, has flattened out on the graph while the other curves are still rising sharply. Part of this is due to the changing population profile and the unusually high proportion of people offering for work. That is to say, the number of people roughly between the ages of 1 8 and 60 is proportionately very much higher as a section of total population than it has ever been before. The other factor of course is the increasing proportion of women offering for work. However, the shortfall- now amounting to 493,000 jobs- between the size of the civilian work force and the actual number of jobs held, largely represents the 'technological bite', a situation which is marked by and worsened by the increasing gap between the comparative cost of labour and the comparative cost of labour-displacing technology. 
The recent advertisements which appeared spread over two pages in the Melbourne  Age,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Australian Financial Review-  for example in the  Australian Financial Review  of 13 March- by Olivetti Australia Pty Ltd, illustrate the width of that gap under the headline in capital letters- and the punctuation is not mine-' OLIVETTI INTRODUCE MINI WORD PROCESSING. AT A MINI PRICE, ONLY $33 A WEEK. TAX DEDUCTIBLE'. The advertisement claims, probably correctly, that the TES 40 1 can produce personalised original letters at 350 words a minute- 5 to 10 times faster than a secretary with a standard electric typewriter. On a conservative basis, if five secretaries each earn $ 180 a week in an office- that is $900 gross a week- and are displaced by a mini word processor costing $33 a week on lease this is a 27 to one differential. In fact, it is an infinite differential if the $33 is entirely tax deductible. But let us say it is a 27 to one differential. 
Let me examine the question of abolishing payroll tax. Bear in mind that payroll tax is not payable unless gross wages for a firm exceed $60,000 per annum. In a firm subject to payroll tax the annual payroll deduction for five typists on $ 180 a week would total $2,340. If payroll tax is abolished, the differential would still be of the order of 25 to one. In other words, it would hardly make a very significant difference. 
I believe that the conventional Keynesian wisdom that employment levels are almost entirely determined by demand is now pretty well exploded and ought to be discarded because it provides a false hope which is unlikely to be confirmed by events. Employment in the provision of many services is certainly in direct proportion to demand- for example, in the provision of personal services. If there is a doubling in demand for haircuts or tooth fillings, we can expect the number of hairdressers or dentists to double. But due to modern technology in the supply of general services on a massive scale employment may well be in inverse proportion to demand, for example, banking transactions are up but employment is down, Telecom Australia is handling more calls than ever but employment is down. The Victorian State Electricity Commission is producing far more power than ever but employment is down. The chemical industry's output is increasing but employment is down. Sales of petrol doubled between 1 970 and 1977 in Australia but employment of pump jockeys dropped by 40 per cent. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
With respect to the European Patent Convention Treaty 
which countries have acceded to the treaty and when did they do so and 
what other countries are eligible to accede and have failed to do so. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
With reference to present Australia Post plans to regionalise mail exchanges, has mail been returned from the Blackburn, Victoria or Clayton, Victoria regional exchanges to the Melbourne Central Mail Exchange because the work volume was too high. 
Is any statistical evidence available to show whether the regional exchanges are producing a faster or a slower service; if so, will he provide details. 
What additional costs have been incurred in the development of these regional exchanges in (a) capital and building costs, (b) transport costs and (c) increased employment or labour saving. 
What technical considerations regarding the efficiency of mail services have led to this decision to regionalise. 
In view of this policy what is (a) the purpose and (b) the cost of the refit of the Melbourne Central Mail Exchange. 
What proportion of non-metropolitan mail was carried by rail during (a) 1948, (b) 1958, (c) 1965, (d) 1970, (e) 1971,  (f)  1972, (g) 1973, (h) 1974, (i) 1975, (j) 1976 and(k) 1977. 
-Bhutto's execution is a black mark in history- one more act of mindless violence. If there is one lesson that history should teach us, it is that controversial political and social issues cannot be resolved by violence- that violence begets more violence.  Mr Bhutto  was certainly no saint, plaster or otherwise, but he deserved a better fate than the one that he met yesterday. Also, it is not just a matter of thinking of Bhutto himself, but of all of the hundreds of other Pakistanis who have also been executed- not all of them well known, their trials not subject to the same kind of scrutiny of world attention that  Mr Bhutto's  trial and execution has had. We need to be very concerned about the situation in Pakistan, and in many countries of the Middle East and elsewhere in which violent penalties are exacted. The circumstances of his trial and execution, and particularly the humiliations heaped on  Mr Bhutto  in his last months, suggest that he has been the victim of judicial murder. 
I conclude by reminding the House of the words that I quoted last year when the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and I proposed for discussion a matter of public importance concerning political prisioners, those of John Donne: 
And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. 
-The Hamer Government clings to office by means of suppression, omission and deceit. The Victorian Parliament last sat on 7 December 1978. On that last night of its sittings it forced through one of the most extraordinary Bills that any government has ever put through a legislature, namely, the Port of Melbourne (World Trade Centre) Bill. It was forced through on the gag, in the face of the abstention and the opposition of a number of members of the Liberal Party and with the opposition of the National Party and the Labor Party. During that debate the Minister of Public Works,  Mr Austin,  spoke about the World Trade Centre. On page 741 1 of the Victorian  Hansard  he said: 
Much has been said about its economic viability, but various surveys have been carried out and it has been unanimously agreed in those surveys that there is a demand and that, in the not-too-distant future, the trade centre will be economically viable. 
The only thing wrong with that statement, of course, is that it is not true. The other aspect that is deplorable is the fact that five months have now elapsed since that date and the Victorian Parliament still has not sat. By the time the election is held the Parliament will not have met for over six months. By the time the Parliament actually meets again, which will presumably be some time in June or early July, it may have not sat for seven or nearly eight months. That is a situation in relation to which, in Australian democratic parliamentary practice, one would have to look to Queensland for an example. But the Victorian situation is even worse. 
-The National Country Party concedes that the situation in Victoria is worse than anywhere else. One of the most appalling things about this proposed world trade centre - 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
With respect to (a) textiles, (b) clothing, (c) footwear, (d) passenger motor vehicles and (e) motor vehicle accessories, what is the approximate effective subsidy per job per annum provided by tariff protection. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Department of Social Security has appointed Ansett Airlines as official travel consultant to the International Year of the Child National Conference on the Child, the Family and the Community. 
2 ) Is it also a fact that the Commonwealth Public Service has a unit which protects equal opportunity in employment. 
Can the Minister say whether Ansett Airlines has refused employment to a woman as a pilot on the grounds that women are unsuitable as pilots, despite the evidence of the applicant's qualifications and the fact that many United States airlines employ women pilots. 
If so, will the Minister state why Ansett Airlines were considered appropriate carriers for the IYC Conference. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the significance of the heat pump. 
If so, is he able to say whether the heat pump was developed in the United States of America and the United Kingdom by such firms as Lucas Aerospace. 
Does the heat pump involve a principle similar to that of the refrigerator in the extraction of heat from the atmoshpere and its transfer inside the walls of houses. 
Is he able to say whether the heat pump is now on sale in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom or (c) Australia. 
If so, what is (a) the cost and (b) the relative thermodynamic efficiency compared to conventional heating methods such as electric or gas space heating. 
Will he make available any technical data about the heat pump. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Of all students currently undergoing secondary education, what percentage is attending (a) private schools (b) catholic schools and (c) Government schools. 
Of all students currently undergoing university education, what percentage have attended (a) private schools (b) catholic schools and (c) Government schools. 
I am glad to second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  which properly emphasises the question of unemployment. I deplore the fact that these Appropriation Bills do so little to use the resources of government to examine and analyse the deepseated structural factors which are shaping our economy. I believe that we are at a turning point in world economic history and that the actions we take now can determine whether the potential for increased wealth and increased output in this economy will narrow the gap between rich and poor or widen it. 
The Industrial Revolution was an enormous force which transformed the economy of Europe and North America- and Australia too- over a long period. Most economic historians would say that it began in Britain in about 1780 and ran throughout Europe until 1914, when World War I marked the beginning of a new era. Ten generations back- 200 years ago- we can be certain that the great majority of our forebears, no matter from where they came, were farmers. The figure was perhaps as high as 70 per cent in Britain and even higher in Europe. Some were in the services- tinkers, tailors, soldiers, sailors- and others manufactured things, either in cottage industries or in factories. If a politician had stood up in the House of Commons 200 years ago and had said that in a few decades agriculture would cease to be the dominant employment sector he would have been laughed at, and yet it happened. 
In Britain from about 1800, in Belgium from 1815 and in France from about 1830, and so on throughout Europe, and then the United States of America, manufacturing overtook services as a large employment sector. For some decades in Europe and the United States around the beginning of the 20th century manufacturing, with directly related services such as transport and retailing, was the largest employment sector. In Australia, manufacturing was never the largest sector in a conventional 3-sector analysis. Services displaced agriculture here as the largest employer in about 1910. Services generally, a large employer since the 1 9th century, expanded rapidly after World War II to become by far the largest sector in sophisticated economies. 
In the present era employment in agriculture and manufacturing has stabilised oris still falling in many advanced countries. The normal phenomenon, of course, is that output is up but employment is down. The United States, for example, has never had fewer farmers. The proportion of the work force in agriculture in the United States is now about 3 per cent, but that does not mean that it is necessary to send people in the US food parcels; their output is enormous. 
Successively in advanced economies the dominant employment sector has been first agriculture. The next dominant sector has been manufacturing, and then services. In Australia at the moment services, depending on how one defines them, account for between 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the total work force. The problem is: If services starts to decline as an employment sector, what do we do for an encore? Where do we go if services contracts as an overall employer? 
Before I answer my own rhetorical question, I want to draw the attention of the House to an extremely important essay by  Sir Ieuan  Maddock, CB., O.B.E., D.Sc, F.R.S., who was the chief scientist of the Department of Industry and who is now the Secretary of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, which appeared in the  New Scientist  on 23 November 1978. 1 shall quote briefly what  Sir Ieuan  said and then I shall seek leave to incorporate two short sections of the article in  Hansard.  Sir Ieuan  Maddock, in his essay entitled 'The Future of Work' wrote: lt has become conventional to regard 'work' as not only the means of producing the goods and the services we need but particularly as the means by which individuals acquire the purchasing power necessary to obtain some proportion of these goods and services. Most economic analyses show a loop diagram relating output to the various inputs, (capital, labour, utilities, raw materials) on the one hand and the recycling of income through purchases, investments, accumulation, et cetera on the other. Low unemployment, high productivity, high use of capital equipment, are invoked as formulae for economic advance (or recovery). 
Yet there are examples in history which show that there is no fundamental relationship between the working capacity of individuals and their ability to purchase. The very high civilisations of the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans prospered without 'working' being associated with 'purchasing'- the slaves did the work, the masters did the purchasing and consuming. Indeed it has been argued that the advance of cultures of all kinds coincide with a large leisured class, free from the burden of working to survive and therefore able to pay more attention to more abstract or aesthetic things. However real this relationship might be there can be little doubt that in the 19th and 20th century work has been linked with purchasing power and affluence, and unemployment equated to misery and deprivation. So strong has become these links in people's minds, the provision of employment has become a greater priority than increasing the total availability of goods and services, lt is regarded better to continue inefficient and uncompetitive enterprises in being, because they provide purchasing power, albeit a small one rather than to improve efficiency, and the ability to compete in home and foreign markets. 
As technology has advanced, it has become progressively more difficult to maintain this stance. Modern capital facilities (electricity, gas, oil, chemicals, man-made fibres, food processing, telephone, et cetera ) are able to supply most of the goods or services needed without great use of labour. Reverting to the example of the early civilisations and the use of slaves, the modern slave is the machine (some regard it as the reverse) and man could progressively be the master. 
The tempo of technological development becomes ever more rapid and the range of potential 'technological slaves' becomes progressively wider. This paper discusses some of the powerful influences which can now be seen to be operating, and speculates on the future pattern of work in the UK. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two sections of this paper, one of which is entitled 'The Mighty Chip'-'Chip' of course is not spelt with a double 'p'- and the other is entitled 'Learning and Forgetting Curves'. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

The Mighty Chip 
There is one technology, although implicit in what has been written above, must nevertheless be singled out for special comment. When the historians of the 21st and later centuries look back at this one, they will probably label it as the 'Technological Century'. But when cataloguing the technological discontinuities which would justify such a title, their first choice will not be the internal combustion engine, jet aircraft, nuclear power or plastics- it will be semiconductors. Whereas all the other technologies have advanced dramatically they have only given more impetus to things that man was already able to do with the use of machines- travel, shape materials, provide horse-power, construct buildings, etc. etc. The impact of the microelectronics revolution manifests itself in very different ways, i.e. 
By its ability to extend or even displace man's capacity for thinking, his intuition or his judgment. 
By its pervasiveness; there is virtually no field in manufacturing, the utilities, the service industries or commerce that can fail to be influenced by this advance- very likely in a profound manner. 
Replacing many devices which have traditionally been the territory of precision mechanical (or electromechanical) devices by purely electronic systemsitself a very substantial revolution. Cash registers, wrist watches, telephone exchanges, etc., have already gone this way, many more will follow. 
The speed of advance. Never has a powerful technology advanced so rapidly in such a short time. The performance of a single chip measured in terms of the number of gates it can contain has increased ten thousandfold in a period of 1 5 years. The speed of obsolescence of not only the chips themselves but of all the ways they can be applied is so great that there has hardly been time to get adapted to one regime before another emerges. 
Reduction of Cost. Not only has the performance increased, but even more remarkable has been the reduction of cost. In a period when inflation and escalating costs are the norm, the price of each unit of performance has reduced one hundred thousandfold since the early 1960s. 
Reliability. Already the reliability of the semiconductor devices far exceed that of any engineering device to date and it continues to improve. 
Flexibility. Because micro-processors are programmable their performance can be changed quickly and cheaply- as distinct from all earlier engineering products. 
This collection of qualities add up to the advent of the most remarkable new technology ever to confront mankind. 
Consequencesto the Developed Nations 
The six influences catalogued above must profoundly affect the industrial structure, performance and attitude of the developed countries. These are not just marginal effects, to be absorbed in a few per cent change in the economic indicators- they are deep and widespread and collectively signal a fundamental and irreversible change in the way the industrialised societies will live. Already the foothills of these changes are in sight. The massive switch of the world 's cash resources from the long established stronghold of the industrialised nations into the Oil States, the persistent signs of increasing structural unemployment, the complete displacement of long cherished technologies by new ones, which call for either very much fewer people or very different people or both. The rapid emergence of formidable new world competition, the growing clamour for a more equitable share of the planet's resources, the urgent quest for international partners in the high technologies and growing public involvement in major decisions are all significant pointers to the accumulating and growing pressures on the future pattern of work. To try to predict the precise outcome and its timing by extrapolating from examples in the past is both hazardous and irresponsible. Changes of such magnitude and speed have never been experienced before, and plans and strategic studies, no matter how diligently pursued are likely to lead to the wrong results. 
What can be identified however is the need for flexibility, adaptability and a widespread realisation that profound change is inevitable. Rather than try to guess the specific changes that will occur or to identify new opportunities, it is more important to recognize the factors that can impede or can stimulate the changes which are necessary and to attend to these. 
There are clearly four areas of concern 
1 ) Changes in job opportunities, both in numbers and in character. No longer is it realistic to regard a person in a 'job for life'. Its content, location or very existence will change in time scales measured in decades rather than lifetimes. Whilst new job opportunities will certainly emerge and these may be large and rewarding, it would be rash to suppose that the rate of new job creation will be a complete match to the rate of job extinction, that there would be a natural compatability (in terms of skills, temperament or location) between the new jobs and the old ones, nor indeed that the new opportunities would exist in the same country as the ones that are being lost. The past two decades have seen the migration of many major industries from long established centres in Europe into new ones in other parts of the world. Nor should this migration be regarded as belonging exclusively to the manufacturing industries. Many of the service industries are vulnerable and already shipping, tourism and some aspects of banking and insurance have moved. The developed nations of the world will have to accept and adapt to these changes and be prepared to accept their impact on their society. 
) Polarisation of the Work Force. There is the real likelihood that the workforce will become polarised into a relatively small technological elite, able to move with and enjoy the advancing technologies and to adapt to the changing circumstances and a much larger proportion of work people whose skills have become outmoded and who lack the education or the mental attitudes to adopt to change. A widely based initial education, greater use of further education and retraining and an acknowledgement by society that anyone who has served well for as long as they are able to do, deserve to be well treated in later years, are all matters that will have to be appreciated. If they are not, then unmanageable social stresses are certain to arise and the consequences are likely to be catastrophic. 
De-Industrialisation. There is the likelihood that whole industries will be rapidly extinguished because of a combination of the influences described above. This has happened before leaving 'ghost towns' where the older people cling on, the younger ones migrate to new areas. The textile industries, shipbuilding, farming have seen such changes but the pace was slow enough to allow individuals to adapt. 
The problem of the future is the speed of change, where flourishing and competitive industries can be liquidated within a few years. Motor cycles in Britain, watch-making in Switzerland and France, photographic goods in Germany are but a few recent examples. The tempo of national planning and re-distribution of industries is likely to prove too slow to adapt to the rapid changes and a more responsive system will be needed. 
De-Humanisation. Alreadymany of the manufacturing processes contain very little job interest, leading to lack of commitment and poor morale within the work force. This trend will increase and accelerate as the developed nations seek to increase their competitiveness against the low labour costs of the emerging countries by ever greater amount of automation. This is likely to fuel a social problem which is already difficult to resolve. 
These factors in combination pose greater problems in the education, training, selection and management of the future work force in the developed nations and it is doubtful whether past and existing practices will be adequate. 
Learning and Forgetting Curves 
Most Engineers and Technologists are familiar with Learning Curves'- the graphical analogy of the process by which skills progressively build up and more efficient methods are introduced. Probably without realising it every amateur cook, part-time gardner or do-it-yourself houseowner has experience of the same process- the climb up the Learning Curve. The more advanced and complex the technology the longer and more painful is the climb and if the technology is advancing rapidly, then as each slope is ascended a new and steeper slope comes in sight so that the climb has to continue. 
The reality of the Learning Curve has long been acknowledged in the planning and the execution of very complex projects. Many attempts have been made to quantify it. It is known for example, that as the aggregated production of a particular motor car or radio set progresses, the efficiency of manufacture improves and hence the unit costs continue to drop. But if the models are changed frequently or if there are sudden switches in production methods, it becomes necessary to climb new Learning Curves and so efficiency is lost. 
But what of the Forgetting Curves- the ability to shed old outmoded techniques and attitudes, to surrender treasured traditions or to change employment in order to be competitive in a new field. This has received very little study, yet can be identified as a prime cause of difficulties in a large number of industrial failures. It is not the inability to note and to learn about the new techniques that lead to failure but the unwillingness to abandon long established methods and product lines. It was not the former giants of the electronics industry in the U.S.A. that seized the new opportunities in semi-conductors, but small and initially little known companies. The giants of the photographic industry failed to respond to the opportunity of 'instant photography' whilst the household names of office machinery failed to react quickly enough to the new techniques of dry copying. 
In more recent times even the comparatively young giants in the computer industry have been slow to react to the new opportunities arising in mini-computers and now micro-processors. 
Forgetting Curves are much more slower than learning curves and companies or indeed countries that have the most to forget' are the ones at greatest risk in a rapidly advancing and changing situation. Here the advantage is clearly in .favour of the late developing nations which enjoy not only the rapidly increasing mobility of technology but also the absence of old technological habits to forget. 
Alas governments of whatever political persuasion are frequently guilty of prolonging the forgetting curves. When there are clear signs that an industry or company is in hazard they will rush in and protect it. Rather than note that a radical change in the size and character of the industry is essential and encourage this change, they will postpone and ultimately increase the agony of readjustment. Instead of facing the fact that the disease might be terminal and therefore seek new birth and growth elsewhere, the profitable dynamic and expanding industries are taxed in order to provide the funds to sustain those that are in final decline. 
How is it possible to establish the balance between the undoubted advantage of prolonged learning curves on the one hand and the damaging effects of forgetting curves on the other. On the one hand one is concerned with the familiar, the confident and quite frequently the affectionate, and there are human, geographical and even cultural factors which will influence the decision maker. On the other hand there is the unknown, the uncertainty of a new technology, a different market place, a new amalgam of human skills and a different tempo. It is very unlikely that the transition from the one to the other can be done by deliberate 'planning'. Giant organisations whether they are governments, multinational corporations, nationalised industries or very large companies, are unlikely to have the agility to shorten the forgetting curves. The flexibility and adaptability required comes most readily from the creation and growth of new companies, composed of resources- human and inanimatematched to the new opportunity and unencumbered by the habits and traditions of large parent organisations. In the presence of a great number of such new enterprises, hungry for labour, the decline of a major company or industry would be less alarming or even a blessing. A situation where the new triumphs over the old by natural extinction is to be preferred to the deliberate policies of fossilisation which have been pursued by governments over many years. 
The ability of new companies to emerge, to expand and to adventure is substantially determined by the economic and social climate. Creating a new enterprise is immensely hard work and there is a high likelihood of failure. To encourage such enterprises they must be easy to start, success must be well rewarded, and failure should not be regarded as a social disgrace. None of these ingredients exist in Britain at this time. Capital is difficult to raise and is very costly, employment of labour is hazardous, success is meagrely rewarded whilst failure and bankruptcy is treated as a scandal. 
Not only are these social and economic factors of great significance, the very structure of industry can be a powerful disincentive to innovation. As companies and organisations (be they private or publicly owned) become larger, they become more introvert, they cross trade within themselves, defining requirements very specifically to their own needs, and become ever less prepared to look beyond their own perimeters for goods, services or even utilities. This inhibits the ability of the entrepreneur to enter the field with a new idea. Here the habits of the European companies and organisations differ from that of the U.S.A. In America, subcontracting is an acknowledged way of life. A high percentage of the very successful small and medium sized companies in the U.S.A. thrive because they established themselves as specialised sub-contractors to a number of competing larger companies. In this way it is possible to have within the one country both giant companies that can afford the very large costs of designing, producing and marketing large complexes whilst still permitting the emergence. of a constant flow of new dynamic companies. Alas in Europe and particularly in Britain this attitude is less evident. All too often a high measure of vertical integration exists making it difficult to break into an established field with innovative ideas. Industries such as computers, semi-conductors, instrumentation, telecommunication, electrical equipment, software etc., have been inhibited by the fact that so much is already contained within the maw of the giant organisations in both private and public sectors. 
To adapt to the rapidly changing hazards and opportunities of the future a move to a far less rigid and inhibited structure is urgent. Sub-contracting and 'hiving off' should be the aim rather than the deliberate creation of giant monoliths. Here the trend of the past two decades have been in the wrong direction. 
-I thank the House. With regard to service employment- I have made the point before and I will state it againbroadly speaking, employment in services falls into two approximately equal categories. One category provides tangible services, namely, things that a person can wear or drive or put in a suitcase or carry around or put on the back of a truck. The other category provides what are essentially intangible services- often described as information services, that is the collection and dissemination of data in the broad sense. That category includes office workers, public servants, teachers, people in research and development and so on, although of course many such services may produce tangible effects. 
We have to recognise that Post-Industrial Australia is essentially an information-based society in which at present more people are engaged in collecting, processing, and disseminating data than are employed in manufacturing and construction. The figures are self evident. As to whether this should or should not be the case will no doubt be argued when others participate in the debate, but so far as numbers are concerned there is no question that more people work in the information sector of the economy than in manufacturing and construction. The celebrated 'law' formulated by C. Northcote Parkinson, that 'work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion', recognises a profound truth- that service employment is inherently capable of mopping up far more workers than manufacturing because the services provided, for example by nurses, teachers or office workers, are consumed or used up each day and then have to be provided again the next day. A manufactured consumer durable, however, is a capital asset which has an extended life. Information services so far tend to be largely personal in nature and, therefore, labour intensive. 
But it is clear that with the new technology it will be very easy to reduce the number of people employed in this area where the cost of labour is, of course, enormous and where the gap between costs of labor and technology is likely to be very great. 
Let me illustrate this point. The installation of an Olivetti TES 40 1 word-processor may result in the displacement of five office workers who may absorb up to 200 hours- that is, five by 40 hours- per week of labour time. The TES 401 has a capital cost of about $6,600; Understandably, the Olivetti company was reluctant to reveal the labour  lime  involved in making each unit. In any case, it would be difficult to calculate as workers would also be involved in building, operating and maintaining the machines which construct the TES 401. However, it seems very likely that the time absorption in manufacturing each TES 401 would involve far fewer than 200 hours. So even if each TES 40 1 lasted for only one week there would be some employment loss. However, since the machine is a consumer durable which might be expected to operate for some years, there seems to be little justification for the hope, often expressed, that the five displaced office workers will be cheerfully absorbed in making the machines which displace them. Perhaps one might be absorbed in manufacturing and servicing, but what happens to the other four? 
As I mentioned earlier, C. Northcote Parkinson's famous law is the precise reason why some types of service employment, particularly of the intangible or information processing type, have been a major absorber of labour time. The principle of 'economies of scale' has, in practice, much less relevance in service employment than in manufacturing. Why should Parkinson replace Adam Smith in manufacturing now? If a telephonist is replaced by an automatic switchboard we cannot assume that she will secure work making telephones. If a classroom teacher is replaced by a television set can we assume that the ex-teacher will be employed building sets or making programs? In much service employment the ratio between employer and employee may be very low. It may be 111 or even less, as in the case of members of parliament or Ministers. A chauffeur might drive a single passenger in the same car for 48 weeks in the year. If he lost his job as a chauffeur- that is, as a worker in the service sector- and worked in motor manufacturing in Australia he would produce the equivalent of one car every 5.3 weeks. Of course, in the large Japanese motor industry each employee produces the equivalent of two cars per week. I echo the words of the distinguished member of this House who, on 24 August 1978, in the Budget debate said: . 
We must face the fact that too many people are chasing too few jobs. Generally speaking, the more able, more articulate and more affluent two-income families are catching them. The unemployment we are now looking at is quantitatively and qualitatively different from the unemployment we have experienced in the past. Because of this it is also important that the ABS produce regular monthly statistics as to the effect of unemployment on families and households. The experience of other industrialised countries points to unemployment being a permanent feature of the economic landscape. The problem of the 1980s is going to be sharing the workaround. 
That speaker also said that a survey which had been carried out by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library suggested that the actual unemployment figure was about 12.5 per cent of the potential work force and that in May 1978. there were 856,000 people who would have liked a job. I agree with those words. I could not have put it better myself. 
-I am grateful for the interjection by the honourable member for Moore. The speech was made by  Mr Ian  Wilson, the Liberal member for Sturt. I believe he was right. I also direct the attention of the House to a recent book entitled  Unemployment  by Keith Windschuttle, published by Penguin Books Ltd. He -argues, I think very plausibly, that if one examines the various categories of people who would, like to work but who for various reasons, having regard to the nature of the labour force, are reluctant to compete with other people who are obviously unemployed and perhaps unemployable, one will find that we have a large concealed unemployed and under-employed figure. This argument, fascinating though it is, might be best pursued after dinner. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-As I was saying, before the suspension of the sitting, Keith Windschuttle in his book  Unemployment  points out that in many ways the figures that we have to indicate full-time unemployment gravely understate the real figures. There are six categories of people to be considered in determining unemployment levels. The first comprises those who are registered with the CES as unemployed and are eligible for benefits or assistance. The second category is those who are unemployed but who are not eligible for CES benefits or assistance, perhaps because they have a working spouse or are excluded by the means test. The third category is those who are unemployed but who are excluded by health or other incapacity from  receiving CES assistance. They may want to work but no appropriate jobs are available. Of course they may be receiving social security payments or they may be too old, too young or the wrong sex for any job that is available. 
The fourth category consists of the underemployed; those who are in part-time work but who would like to be in full-time work, particularly women. Statistically they are regarded by the CES as employed even if they work for, say, only one day a week though they may prefer to work for five days a week. The fifth category is discouraged job seekers; those who wish to work but who feel pessimistic about their chances of getting a job and have stopped looking actively. This is particularly common where a spouse is working. The sixth category is those who are temporarily placed in jobs and then drop off the lists. It is the unrecognised dilemma of those who accept a tiny and short-lived bird in the hand only to miss out on a long-term and possibly more appropriate job. 
The conclusion that Keith Windschuttle arrives at is that the total level of unemployment plus underemployment, plus disguised or concealed unemployment is really more of the order of 18 per cent of the potential work force. The honourable member for Sturt in his Budget speech gave a figure of 12.5 per cent, which we might see as a low figure. If we examine both figures we might perhaps equitably split the difference and say that 1 5 per cent is a more realistic figure of the degree of not just unemployment but also underemployment and disguised unemployment. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that section of Keith Windschuttle 's book entitled 'Underemployment and Hidden Unemployment'. 
Leave granted. 

 The section read as follows- 

UNDEREMPLOYMENT AND HIDDEN UNEMPLOYMENT 
The previous section was not meant to argue that employers have taken kindly to wage gains made by women workers in the period since 1972. On the contrary, they have sought to keep down labour costs wherever possible. One of the main ways they have attempted to do this has been through part-time employment. A great deal of the growth in employment in the recession has been in part-time work. Between May 1972 and May 1977 only 30 per cent of the growth in jobs was in full-time work. Some 70 per cent was in part-time work. The savings employers gain through parttime work are greater if women part-timers are employed. Part-time work is seen as an ideal opportunity for many married women whose commitment to home and children makes it difficult for them to work full-time. In 1977 63 per cent of the female workforce was married and 40 per cent of these were working part-time. They averaged fourteen hours a week on casual rates and were ineligible for the holiday and sick leave benefits of full-time work. For many women, parttime work amounts to involuntary unemployment or underemployment. Those on part-time work are counted officially as employed yet more than 30 000 of them say they work part-time only because of the shortage of jobs. Because part-time work suits married women and because almost all young women are looking for full-time work, it seems likely that in that small number of industries where married women have replaced young women in jobs, the acceptance by married women of part-time work has been a significant factor. 
In addition to underemployment through part-time work, the phenomenon of hidden unemployment is also characteristic of women. The hidden unemployed are those not measured by either Commonwealth Employment Service or Australian Bureau of Statistics surveys of the unemployed. The CES figures are the most unreliable for women. They refer only to people registered with the CES for full-time employment. Part-time job seekers are not counted. Women living with men who have jobs are ineligible for unemployment benefits. This acts to discourage women from registering with the agency. Further, because many women's jobs are handled by private agencies, particularly in office work, cleaning, and entertainment and recreation jobs, women tend not to register. Finally, most women are simply not in the habit of registering with the CES for employment. In March 1976, for instance, despite a collapse of employment in the manufacturing industry, only 327 women, compared to 34 987 men, registered for unskilled manual jobs. A survey of women's work for the Royal Commission on Human Relationships found that in Melbourne in 1975-6, only 1 per cent of a sample of working women found jobs through the CES. Most used personal connections, advertisements or direct applications. 
The ABS survey does not suffer from as many limitations as the CES but is still a far from accurate guide to the state of female unemployment. ABS defines as unemployed: people actively looking for full-time or part-time work in the past four weeks, people who were available for work in the survey week, people waiting to start a new job, and those stood down temporarily. The group who are missed out of such a definition are discouraged workers, that is, people who are unemployed and want work but who are neither looking nor ready for work because they believe no jobs are available. Women are highly likely to be such discouraged workers, particularly those with children. Because they believe no jobs are available they do not try to make child-care arrangements and so are not 'available' to work under the ABS definition. However, other surveys have indicated that the number of discouraged women workers is very large indeed. A Morgan Gallup Poll conducted in 1973 found 32 per cent of women interviewed would go out to work if there was a convenient child-care centre available. Surveys by the New South Wales and Commonwealth governments found that in six New South Wales regional centres an average of 24 per cent of women contacted who were not registered as unemployed would have sought work were it available. This data indicates that between one-quarter and one-third of women regarded as housewives and thus outside the workforce should be counted as among the hidden unemployed. 
This is, of course, a huge number. Taking the mean of the two above figures of 28 per cent and applying it to the number of women listed by ABS as not in the labour force at February 1978, there were 829,304 women who could be regarded as among the hidden unemployed. This lifts the total number of the unemployed at that time to 1,306,304 or 18 per cent of the labour force. Is this a meaningful figure or simply a play with statistics to paint a black picture? Most discussion of the proportion of married women who work takes the ABS figure of 41 per cent as its guide. The assumption is that the remaining 59 per cent are full-time housewives who remain relatively permanently outside the labour market. The assumed pattern is that most women work until they are about 24 years old, leave work to bear children and then, at about 35 years old, a smaller proportion re-enter the workforce and stay until they retire. This assumption, however, is not borne out by closer investigation. In a sample of Melbourne married women with children under 12, Jan Harper and Diane Worrell found that the most common pattern of work experience was that of intermittent employment- moving in and out of the workforce at intervals. There was no long gap between child-bearing and work re-entry. Harper and Worrell found that about 70 per cent of their married women had worked at some time when they had a pre-school child and more than 40 per cent worked at some time when they had a baby less than twelve months old. This sort of picture makes the ABS figure of 4 1 per cent of married women in the workforce rather misleading. It is true at any one time but does not portray the range of women's experience. Now, what this evidence indicates is that we ought to take seriously those housewives who say they want to work. We should regard them not as being 'out of the labour force,- but as unemployed, intermittent workers. 
This argument ought to lead us to regard the concept of full employment' with some scepticism. It means low rates of unemployment among adult males and the young and single. It is a definition that neutralises the impact of hidden unemployment among women. Lacking a social definition of their status as 'unemployed', women at home who want jobs do not regard themselves as truly unemployed. The inability of the capitalist economy to provide jobs for all who want them goes largely unrecognised. As Kaye Hargreaves has observed: 'The political implications of a dole queue containing half the adult female population would be explosive. ' While the definition of the status of these women thus contributes to social stability it has other consequences as well. It diminishes the possibility that married women will act the way the 'reserve army' thesis suggests. The existence of large numbers of hidden unemployed does not mean there are a great many desperate women willing to undercut the pay rates of their sisters. Hidden unemployment probably accounts for part of the gap that exists between male and female pay rates but it is not a strong force, or women's wages could not have increased as they did between 1972 and 1975. The lack of the appropriate definition also eases some of the psychological burden that unemployment imposes on those with close ties to the labour force and which manifests itself, as shown in Chapter Six, in higher suicide and mental hospital admission rates. It also has some intriguing consequences for government benefits policy which are discussed in the next section. 
-I thank the House. It seems to me that the greatest contribution to work redistribution in a Post-Industrial or PostService era- I am starting to think that the term Post-Service era is perhaps even more appropriate than Post-Industrial- might be to accept a 35-year working lifetime as the norm- that of course is not the 'Life. Be in it' Norm- rather than the 50-year model which is still regarded as typical for working class males, although not for women or the tertiary educated. Eligibility for maximum retirement benefit, for example, under a national superannuation scheme- whenever we get that; and it has been promised one way or the other since 1 939 when the then  Mr Robert  Menzies resigned from Cabinet- could begin after 35 years work, or less if medical or other special circumstances were involved. 
Since those who choose to remain working after 35 years would benefit financially from continuing to receive wages for a longer period, this could lead to a proportional reduction of retirement benefits where a choice was made to work for 40, 50 or even in exceptional cases 60 years. It should be pointed out that this incentive to retire early has been incorporated- quite rightly- in the Australian parliamentary superannuation scheme. We might say that what is sauce for the goose ought to be sauce for the gander; it ought to bc applicable outside this place, not just to us. The same principle is implied in the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill which this House will be debating at some time in the future where in effect a 35-year option or less is offered to the Commonwealth public servants who will be able to elect to retire at 55 years, if they choose. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you would well remember, that 55 years is the mandatory retirement age in Japan for those who are the privates and non-commissioned officers in the Japanese industrial army. 
Choosing options for a 35-year working life should encourage people to consider the value of time in their own lives. The conventional wisdom asserts that work equals income equals the power to make choices and that free time equals impotence. Often the reverse may be true and it may be that free time equals power to make choices whereas work equals response to economic necessity equals performing tasks set by somebody else. The 35-year option may help people to conclude that it is better to make active choices on their own behalf rather than passively to accept decisions made by someone else for them. The question of life after death has always occupied human thought. Basic changes in human working patterns may stimulate interest in the possibility of life before death as well. 
The basic 50-year to 35-year reduction would not occur immediately but could and should be phased in pari passu to coincide with the reduced demand for labour which may accompany the increased use of labour displacing technology. This would enable technology to realise the hope, promised but never fulfilled by the Industrial Revolution, to liberate man from boring and life-denying labour. For those who find it pyschologically necessary to continue working even past 35 years, even at tasks which most of us regard as boring drudgery, the option must be kept open. 
-Does the Treasurer recall the Prime Minister's specific statement during the 1977 election campaign that a reduction of 2 per cent in interest rates in the following 12 months was a target that could and would be achieved and the Deputy Prime Minister's promise to eat his hat if that reduction did not occur? Is it a fact that these promises have not been kept and that the interest rate structure is now moving up again? Can the Treasurer advise the House of the reasons for this reversal in the interest rate trend? Further, can he advise the House of arrangements that are being made to provide the Deputy Prime Minister with a hat? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I rise to support the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I think it is important that we put much more emphasis on the causes of drug abuse and addiction as well as trying to cope with the effects. I think the causes are really much more important than the effects. We cannot just cope with the effects alone. It is a classic example of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted. We need to know far more about our human motivations. What is it about our lives that makes so many people dependent upon chemical crutches? We know so little about what really makes us tick. I think there is enormous hypocrisy in trying to distinguish between licit drugs, such as analgesics, alcohol and nicotine which overall are enormously costly and socially destructive. I know that many people, even those who are in this House who are users, would concede that although we come down unanimously very heavily against illicit drugs, it is important that we recognise that the profit motive, which can be despicable when it applies to illegal drugs, is also despicable in other ways. 
I was struck by the strength of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  (Mr Fife),  in his stern denunciation of the profit motive in his second reading speech. Many people do good things and bad in search of profit- but he was confining his denunciation only to a specific area, illegal drugs- but people make a quick quid out of other areas as well. If the Minister's words could be put without alteration into a Labor Party Bill, to make a State monopoly of the liquor industry would we have the same unanimity then? Or would he say: 'Alcohol is a traditional drug of abuse that we have had for generations and we are not going to change the situation'? I believe that we really need to have a firm social attitude throughout the whole community against all drugs of addiction. I must confess that I speak as one of a small minority of wowsers in this community. It seems to me that we really widen the generation gap in this extraordinary hypocritical situation where the parents aged 40 or 50 are saying to the children aged 15 or 20: 'My drugs of addiction are all right'- 
We do get revenue out of it, as the honourable member for Scullin points out. However, the parents are saying also: 'But your drugs of addiction are bad '. I think we can say that prevention is better than cure and that example is better than precept. If we do not want young people to be attracted to the drug culture, perhaps we ought to examine our own lives and examine whether they are not built around the idea of licit drugs. It may also be despicable to pursue a profit motive in legal drugs. We might ask if the market of the analgesic manufacture is to be applauded for sound business practice because it makes a profit, or do we say: 'No, we have got to measure the destruction of human kidneys and so on when we are considering the way the community is going'? 
I think it is also very important that we examine the practice in Great Britain, for example, where drug use is decriminalised. That is regarded essentially as a medical rather than a criminal matter. Certainly the experience in the United States is that jacking up the penaltiesthis happened in California where there has been an enormous increase in the penalties- has not been notably successful in actually reducing the incidence of use of illegal drugs. The final thing I wish to do is to express my concern that the principle once established of telephone tapping should not be abused. The road to hell is paved with good intentions- if I can use a third cliche in my speech- and I think it is very important that it is kept under the most vigilant safeguard and that the Minister is personally involved. 
-On 18 November 1978 at Jonestown in Guyana, 914 members of a religious cult called the People's Temple died of poison- by cyanide in KoolAid in an extraordinary act of mass murder and suicide. This incident aroused such a universal sense of horror and revulsion that after the initial sensation faded and the story dropped from our front pages and colour television screens and after the handful of instant books was rushed into print, read and discarded, there was an understandable desire to forget about the Jonestown horror- because the mind reacts instinctively against too much horror. We blank it out and forget. This has prevented much rational analysis of what went on and why. Are there any lessons to be learnt from Jonestown? Are individual or collective acts of madness capable of being anticipated and prevented. 
Arthur Koestler once argued in his book  The Ghost in the Machine  that the most appalling thing about the human race was not its aggression and violence but its appalling docilitythe fact that so many people are prepared to suspend their individual judgment or even their sense of self-interest in favour of a cause which captures them and makes them choose to subordinate themselves to the will of someone Other. The charismatic leader has rarely had difficulty in finding loyal followers who will beg him to relieve them of the crushing weight of free will. For the Reverend Jimmy Jones we could just as easily substitute the name of Field Marshal Idi Amin or Adolf Hitler. 
We may understand more about the human condition from reading novels such as Joseph Conrad's  Heart of Darkness  or Feodor Dostoevski's  The Brothers Karamazov  than by wading the mountains of print which a generous Australian Government drops on us each day. Was Jonestown, despite its Guyanan Gotterdammerung, essentially an American phenomenon which reflects uniquely United States stresses and tensions whether racial, sexual or spiritual? Most of the cults now found in Australia are American in origin. The puzzling thing that ought to strike us and ought to strike our sense of scepticism is that the People's Temple was never subject to effective filtering by the various systems which run through our society. For example, it had considerable exposure to the education system, to other churches, to the American political system, to the media generally, to the social welfare organisations, to the legal system generally and to lawyers, and somehow it never failed the test. What is wrong with our systems that they are so lacking in scepticism? 
It is worth noting the support and encouragement that Jimmy Jones received from politicians, people who by their training and experience ought to have a healthy scepticism about charismatics in a rival discipline. But the people and organisations that used Jones or were used by  him included  Mrs  Rosalyn  Carter, the President's wife; Vice-President Walter  Mondale  Governor Jerry Brown of California; LieutenantGovernor Mervyn  Dymally  of California; the District Attorney's Office of San Francisco; and a San Francisco Mayor, George  Moscone,  who was killed a few days later. This happened in the richest and best educated State of the richest and best educated nation on earth. What of the role of the lawyers? Mark Lane and Charles Garry were tough, smart and sophisticated. Why did they not blow the whistle? The appalling common theme that runs through it all is the lack of scepticism- the lack of self-inquiry.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a very interesting article which appeared in the New York  Herald Tribune  entitled 'Unease Over Cults in US Grows in Wake of Guyana'. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

UNEASE OVER CULTS IN U.S. GROWS IN WAKE OF GUYANA 
This article is based on reporting by Jo Thomas and Nathaniel Sheppard Jr. It was written by Miss Thomas. It is the first of a series. 
NEW YORK, Jan. 21 (NYT)- Some have been highly visible in airports and on street corners, offering flowers and soliciting donations, but until 9 1 4 persons died in Jonestown, Guyana, most of the thousands of Americans who have joined religious cults in the last decade remained in the nation's peripheral vision. 
There were groups that were considered odd, such as the Bo and Peep UFO cult or New York's carpet-cleaning cult. And some practices seemed strange, such as the mass marriages arranged by the Rev. Sun Myung Moon. As religious groups, however, cults were protected by the First Amendment and by a general feeling that their aura of good intentions might, at worst, cloak fraud. 
Then, last November, the Peoples Temple collapsed with a violence that raised fundamental questions about how the nation could deal with religious groups that wooed the young and the idealistic, then got them to give up their possessions, their family ties, their freedom and, at Jonestown, their lives. 
Interviews conducted across the country with leaders and current and former members of groups commonly described as cults, as well as with relatives of the members and with persons who have studied cults, show that the groups share at least some of the following characteristics: 
They have a living charismatic leader who says he has been given new, exclusive revelations about God or reality. Anyone who does not believe his teachings, he says, is not only wrong but also satanic. 
The leader creates a family, often a communal living arrangement, and takes a name such as "Dad". Members frequently take new names when they join and sever ties with their real families. 
The leader sets absolute rules, but he does not necessarily obey them himself. He usually lives far more luxuriously than his followers. 
The group has an apocalyptic view of the world, in which moral rules may be discarded in the service of the leader. Members also discard their belongings, their occupations and, occasionally, their regard for their own physical well-being. 
Certain behaviour-control techniques are practiced, usually in a setting isolated from the outside world. Members see the techniques as a religious regimen. Outsiders call them brainwashing. 
Although the Carter administration opposes any broad investigation of such groups on constitutional grounds, some members of Congress favor inquiries into their activities abroad and into the tax-exempt status they frequently have at home. 
The complaints came first from parents who said their children had been brainwashed, a charge echoed by former members of some cults. The complaints were denied by the cults and many were virtually impossible to prove in court. A wave of kidnappings by parents ensued, and a new profession appeared- "deprogramming", a way of erasing indoctrination. 
There were reports that the Children of God had started practicing prostitution and that Synanon had changed from a group treating drug addiction into a cult that ordered mass divorces and vasectomies, abortions and beatings, and that it threatened those who tried to challenge it or to report on its activities. 
Paul Morantz, a lawyer who had successfully sued Synanon on behalf of a couple who charged brainwashing, kidnapping and false imprisonment, was bitten by a rattlesnake placed in his mailbox. The rattlesnake attack resulted in charges of attempted murder against Synanon 's founder, Charles Dederich 
The FBI raided the Church of Scientology, charging that church representatives had infiltrated federal agencies and placed electronic bugs in offices of the Internal Revenue Service. The raids yielded guns, dossiers on the church's enemies, lock-picking and bugging equipment, and such items as a blackjack and a vial labeled "vampire blood. " 
A House International Relations subcommittee, concluding an eight-month study of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, said it had found evidence that the organisation had systematically violated federal laws on taxes, immigration, banking, currency transactions and foreignagent registration, as well as state and local laws relating to charity fraud. 
Estimates of the number of Americans who belong to cults range from 300,000 to 3 million, depending on who is counting. 
The Church of Scientology claims a world membership of 5.4 million. The Love Family is so small- about 250- that members can all take the same last name. 
The backgrounds of cult leaders are diverse. In recent years, cults have been started by an airline pilot, an engineer, a country-western singer and a real estate salesman, as well as by ministers of established churches. 
Bo and Peep, who formed a cult in 1973 based on their prophecy that they would be assassinated, return from the dead and leave the planet in a craft from outer space, were Marshall Herr Applewhite, 47, a musician and opera singer, and Bonnie Lu Trousdale Nettles, 5 1, a professional nurse. 
According to Robert Balch, a sociologist at the University of Montana who studied the group for several years, Bo and Peep videotaped the 'final statement to the earth', left it in Oklahoma and disappeared, along with 96 followers. 
Ben Sebastian Sapio, 49, who founded a fundamentalist Bible cult called The Way, The Truth and The Life, was a hairdresser. In 1975, his group asked to sponsor 1 1 Vietnamese refugees, all Buddhists, at a commune in North Carolina. 
The refugees spent a month with the group, and then left after complaints about their treatment were made to Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C. The refugees said that they had been worked hard by day, indoctrinated by night in English they did not understand, and prevented from leaving. 

 Mr Sapio and other leaders of the group announced last year that they were leaving North Carolina. Their whereabouts are unknown. 
Carpet Cleaners 
Stewart Traill, 43, a former vacuum cleaner salesman, founded a group in Pennsylvania called the Forever Family. After opposition arose from groups of parents of members, the group changed its name to the Church of Bible Understanding and moved to New York City, where members stand on street corners soliciting business for the cult's carpet-cleaning company. The group also has a mission in Haiti. 
Who is likely to join a cult? Prof. Ronald Enroth, a sociologist at Westmont College in California and the author of a book about cults, said in an interview that a typical cult member is 1 8 to 22 years old, white, middle or upper-middle class, and has at least some college education and a nominally religious upbringing. 
Shari Smith, 25, was a lonely 19-year-old freshman at the University of Wisconsin when she struck up a friendship with an older girl who was a member of The Body of Christ, a group founded by Sam Fife, a minister from Miami, and C. E. Cobb, an airline pilot. 
Miss Smith joined The Body for 'a sense of security, friendship,' she said- and was sent in January, 1973, to a farm it owned near Eupora, Miss. 'A big thing with this group is demons- people are possessed,' she said. 'By hurting the flesh, you can make the spirit overcome the devil. They beat  on me  because I sassed ' 
She described their methods this way: 'They tell you to kneel and put your hands on a chair, and then they take a wooden paddle and whip you a few times, three times if you're lucky. The first time, I got three. Other times, I don't remember. ' Rebellious people were tied to a bed or chair or on the floor. They put a headset on them and played preachers from the group. The length depended on how long they fought it. One day or two days. ' 
In December, 1 976, on a visit to her parents, Miss Smith said, she was persuaded during a deprogramming session to leave the cult. Neither  Mr Fife  nor  Mr Cobb  could be reached for comment. 
In most cases, conversions to cults involve no coercive measures, and law enforcement officials therefore are generally reluctant to intervene. But some cults, usually small ones, have run into trouble with the law. 
Raymond Alvin Archer, 29, who sold produce and is the founder of the Theocratic Commune Natural Health Service, was charged last summer with manslaughter after the bodies of his 1 -year-old son and 3-year-old daughter were found buried in the commune's yard on Detroit's East Side. 
A former cult member told the authorities that the group advocated a strict died of raw fruits and vegetables and that the children were not given meat or dairy products. A medical examiner testified that he believed the girl had died of malnutrition. The cause of the boy's death could not be determined. 
Deaths Cause Outrage 
In rural North Webster, Ind., Melvin Greider a 42-year- old farmer, and Hobart Freeman, a theologian, founded the Glory Barn Faith Assembly, which did not believe in doctors. The group attracted 1,000 followers and was the object of public outrage over the deaths in childbirth, between 1 975 and 1 978, of two mothers and seven infants. 
One woman bled to death over a period of two days in the presence of a registered nurse. According to the local authorities, the nurse explained that she was in attendance only as a friend. No charges were ever brought against the Glory Barn. 

 Mr Freeman could not be reached for comment.  Mr Greider  parted ways with the group early last year. 
In New York, Oric Bovar, a 59-year-old former opera coach who asserted that he was Christ, was found praying over the decomposing body of a follower who had died of cancer and was charged with failing to report a corpse. On 14 April 1977, the day he was to stand trial, he jumped from a lOth-floor window and killed himself. He had once said, according to some reports, that if he jumped out a window, God would bounce him back. 
-I thank the House. I point out too the very important words used by the Grand Inquisitor in  The Brothers Karamazov,  by Dostoevski: 
So long as man remains free he strives for nothing so incessently and so painfully as to find someone to worship . . . For these pitiful creatures are concerned not only to find what one or the other can worship, but to find something that all would believe in and worship; what is essential is that all may be together in it. This craving for community of worship is the chief misery of every man individually and of all humanity since the beginning of time. For the sake of common worship they've slain each other with the sword . . . Man has no more pressing need than the one to find somebody to whom he can surrender, as quickly as possible, that gift of  freedom  which he, unfortunate creature, was born with . . . The secret of man's being is not only to live but to have something to live for . . . Man prefers peace, and even death, to freedom of choice in the knowledge of good and evil. 
If people are frightened of freedom of choice, we are indeed in trouble. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What are the (a) names (b) addresses (c) occupations and (d) terms of office of persons who are or have been Commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission during the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What are the (a) names, (b) addresses, (c) occupations and (d) terms of office of members of(i) the Australian Telecommunications Commission since its inception and (ii) the Overseas Telecommunications Commission during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice on 20 March 1 979: 
1 ) With respect to the resolutions of the 8th Meeting of the Australian Fisheries Council held at Canberra on 10 November 1 978, and presented to the House of Representatives on 22 February  919 (Hansard,  page 257), is it fact that the Council recommended that Annex A, a List of Species and Genera of Aquarium Fishes Proposed for Continued Importation, be adopted. 
If so, does this list exclude, and, by implication, recommend for elimination the importation of goldfish or any livebearing fish within the genus poecillia, e.g., guppies, platties, sword tails and mollies. 
Do these fish constitute about 50 per cent of all imports. 
Is it a fact that aquarium fish hobbyists number about 1,500,000 persons with an estimated retail turnover of $200m in respect of the hobby. 
Is it also fact that the trade has not been consulted on the proposed exclusions from the approved list of imported fish. 
Has the Australian Federation of Aquarium Fish Importers and Traders a 108 page report currently before the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources which is inquiring into the adequacy of quarantine measures to protect pastoral industries from exotic diseases. 
Will the exclusion of imported stocks of goldfish, guppies, etc., lead to the establishment of exotic fish breeding in Australian waters with far greater risk to our freshwater environment. 
Has his attention been drawn to the sympathy expressed by Professor C. W. Emmons of the Department of Veterinary Physiology at the University of Sydney for the survival of the aquarium fish industry. 
Will he give an undertaking that the proposed exclusions will not be proclaimed until (a) the AFAFIT has been consulted, (b) the Senate Committee has reported and (c) the proposed changes have been considered by Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether there are any current proposals to (a) provide compensation for the Banaban people, arising from past occupation and economic exploitation of Ocean Island (Banaba) by foreign powers, or (b) assist repatriation to Ocean Island by Banabans currently living on 
Rabi Island (Fiji) together with appropriate assistance to establish agriculture and industry. 
If not, will he take the matter up with the Governments of Great Britain, New Zealand and Japan. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May1979: 
) What are the charges made under the national pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
Is any reduction made in the case of (a) aged pensioners, (b) recipients of supporting mothers benefit or (c) recipients of unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 2203  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 89) about establishing a post box in Chirnside Avenue, Werribee, near the Walwa Place corner, will he say (a) why the suggested site was rejected in favour of a site at the corner of Duncans Road and Yalonga Avenue, (b) what is the distance from the box to the nearest house and (c) whether the site has been the subject of criticism by local residents and the  Werribee Banner. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) What furniture and fittings were acquired for the Sydney office of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation at Westfield Towers. 
) What was the total cost of these items. 
To whom were they disposed of when the Organisation was wound up, when and at what cost. 
Did  Mr Harry  M. Miller or any of his companies acquire any of these items; if so, what was the price paid by the Commonwealth to acquire them and what price did  Mr Miller  or his companies pay for them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
How many accidents have occurred in each State and Territory involving the jack-knifing of trailer vehicles which led to (a) death or ( b) serious injury during the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to admissions in the Victorian Parliament by the  Hon.  V. T. Hauser and the  Hon.  J. V. Guest, both Liberal Members of the Legislative Council, that they recorded a telephone conversation relating to the Victorian Government's land transactions between  Mr Charles  Francis, QC, Independent Liberal MLA for Caulfield and  Mr John  Jost of the  National Times  without the knowledge or consent of  Mr Jost. 
If so, (a) was he consulted about this recording and ( b ) was his consent sought or given. 
If he did not give his consent, what action does he propose to take to enforce the law against unauthorised tape recording of telephone calls. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) What was the appropriation for the 1976 Census. 
How much of this appropriation has been spent. 
If the total amount is in excess of the appropriation, what is the difference. 
Why are so many figures from the 1 976 Census not yet available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) What access to ADP facilities is provided for Members of Parliament 
) If access is available, on what terms and conditions is it provided. 
If access is not available, will he take appropriate action to help eliminate any possible inequity in information transfer between the legislature and the executive. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
What has been the (a) average manufacturing productivity growth rate (for labour) for the last IS years and (b) the GNP growth rate for the same period. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the significance of jojoba beans in producing oil products similar to those derived from whale oils. 
If so, to what extent is the jojoba bean being grown in Australia. 
What action is being taken to promote it as a cash crop. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Is it a fact that bans on cigarette advertising on television are being flouted constantly, for example by lengthy exposure of cigarette posters (Winfield) at telecasts of sporting events. 
If so, what action has he taken or does he propose to take to control extra-legal television advertising. 
Will he consider giving a directive that, for example, where 5 minutes in a sporting telecast are devoted to exposure of cigarette advertisements equal time should be given to anti-smoking advertisements. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) What work has been done in Australia to establish the statistical relationship between retirement and death. 
) In the period since 1 945, has there been an increase or decrease in the average time between retirement and death (for example does a man or woman who retires at 55 or 60 enjoy a longer period of retirement than a man or woman who retires at 65). 
What would be the anticipated effects on longevity if earlier retirement became the norm. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
What are the names and occupations of all persons who have been appointed to the Australian Postal Commission. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Minister's responsibility for the Commonwealth companies Act. Will the Minister confirm that there is no provision within the Act for the appointment of nominal directors? Is it a fact that acceptance of appointment as a director involves responsibilities imposed under various acts and that directors are then liable for failures to meet these obligations which cannot be avoided by pleading ignorance or assuming the status of nominal director? Is it not a fact that the concept of nominal director is unknown to the law and a contradiction in terms, like being a nominal minister or a nominal ship 's captain? 
I direct the attention of the House to the cultural and social deprivation of Melbourne's western suburbs. I am sure that what I say will apply generally to the western suburbs of Sydney as well. So far as people-intensive activities or facilities are concerned, Melbourne's west is deeply disadvantaged compared with the affluent suburbs in the east and south-east. The lack of facilities may well contribute to a declining interest in promoting people-intensive activities in the area or activities outside their own homes. Examples of what I mean can be included in the following list of people-intensive activities or facilities: Swimming pools, tennis courts, cricket pitches, football grounds, bookshops, record shops, art or craft shops, coffee shops, restaurants, tertiary institutions, theatres or cinemas, radio stations or major media outlets, and hospitals beds. If one provides a list of all these things one finds that the extent of deprivation in the west compared with the eastern suburbs of Melbourne is very marked, quite often in the order of five to one. The same is true of many rural areas as well. I would be the first to admit that there is rural deprivation even in Victoria, despite the many years of Country Party Government. 
I want to raise something that is closely related to what was said earlier by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  I preface it by drawing attention to a remarkable passage that appeared on 28 October 1978 in a  National Times  profile of that warmly human figure,  Mr John  Stone, Secretary of the Treasury. The article concluded with these words: 
The Treasury runs a relatively sophisticated model of the economy that contains nearly ISO mathematical equations no politician could hope to understand. 
That is not to say that the words are directly attributed to the Secretary but there is no doubt that they reflect the prevailing view in the Treasury. The tragedy of that view is that it is half right. The Treasury has access to a vast amount of documentation, material and computer time to which we do not have access. Of course the Treasury invariably does not come up with the right answers. But this means that when the Treasury approaches an economic problem it is inclined to say that it approaches it with a vast background of knowledge and we ignorant fellows who make up the Parliament do not have that background of knowledge. So it might be said that the Treasury view in a sense is that on complex economic matters we might as well rack off because there is nothing whatever we can contribute to the debate that would have any technical weight. Even though one might see some half truth in that, the implications for the political system under which we are elected to represent the people- that is to say, the democratic system- are very alarming. If experts in the Treasury are protected by their access to all the computerised technology and all the information that is at their disposal, and we at the other end are the rank amateurs who only represent voters but do not have access to the information that the Treasury has, then democracy is in a very parlous state. I also draw the attention of the House to the answer to question on notice No. 3876 provided by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 7 June 1979. 1 asked: 
1 ) What access to ADF facilities is provided for members of parliament. 
If access is available, on what terms and conditions is it provided. 
If access is not available, will he take appropriate action to help eliminate any possible inequity in information transfer - 
That is irony of course- between the legislature and the executive. 
Honourable members will be not too staggered to learn that the answer from the Prime Minister was: 
1 ) At present no direct access to ADP facilities is provided for members although the Parliamentary Departments, in response to members' requests, have limited access to . . . ADP facilities by informal arrangements. 
The honourable member for Holt also spoke about informal arrangements earlier. The problem is that here in Canberra back bench members- I am sure it is true of front bench Opposition members as well- often feel like members of football teams that never play at home. They are always fighting on alien ground. The public servants collectively have about 85 per cent of the information and we have about 1 5 per cent, for much of which we have to rely on leaks, authorised and otherwise, and newspaper reports. The point is: How is it possible for the Parliament to make a proper contribution to governing the affairs of this country in an increasingly sophisticated and complicated period unless we have access to the raw material? We do not have it. 
To take up the point that the honourable member for Holt put, there is really an intractable problem because of time limitations. I sympathise with the spirit of what he said. I made a rough calculation. I refer to some of the major issues which have been raised lately on which many of us would like to participate- for example, the debate on the Williams report not yet dealt with here, the Crawford report, the report on the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting at Lusaka, the Budget. Let us assume that half the members of this House, 63 people, wanted to participate in a certain debate. Let us assume that they each take their 20 minutes. In my calculation that works out at just over 20 hours of debating time, which would take up more than an entire week so far as the arrangements of this House are concerned. That would eliminate Question Time, discussions of matters of public importance, adjournment debates and all the other groovy things we do in this chamber. 
I mention briefly that one of the great problems that honourable members find is that we are not encouraged to participate in debating as those of us from the Victorian Parliament used to think of it. I must say that since I have been a member of this House I have come to appreciate the Victorian Parliament more and moresomething I never thought I would do. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I cannot resist the opportunity to reply to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I do not marvel at the fact that the  Sydney Morning Herald  declined to print the letters of the honourable member. I think that he has wittingly or unwittingly attempted to deceive the House about the relativity of absolute figures and proportional figures. The point that needs to be made over and over again- he ought to hear this as he is leaving the chamber- is simply that we have had over the last three or four years an enormous increase in the total number of people of work force age. Normally speaking in relatively sophisticated western economies one will find the magic figure of 42 per cent of the total population which is available for work, which desires work and which tries to enter the work force. What has happened in the last few years is that because of the enormous baby boom in the post-war period and the fact that the veterans of that boom are now well into work force age, Australia has reached a remarkably high figure of nearer 45 per cent of people of work force age who are offering for work. This is one of the highest figures anywhere in the world. There has been an enormous proportional increase in the number of people offering for work. There has also been an increase in the absolute number of jobs. 
It seems to me that if one takes a proportional percentage point of view that is probably more valid than looking at the absolute figures. If one does so one will find that there has been a continuing decline. The second point I wish to take up- this is quite important- is that what the honourable member has said is an indication of the naiviety of his thinking about economics. 
-As my friend the honourable member for Chifley says, it went down the chute. After listening to the honourable member one can see why. Two great engines are running within Australia's economy. We might call one the productive sector which produces tangible goods and services essentially based on capitalism as we know it. For want of a better term we might call the other sector the convivial sector. That sector is producing quality of life things such as education, information, health and welfare services and so on. As has been rightly pointed out it is largely funded by taxation. We recognise that. It is rather simplistic to say: Here is the noble productive sector relying on capital which produces profit which produces taxation which leads to this parasitic growth that the honourable member would think of as the convivial sector. The point is that the convivial sector does the basic things. It determines broadly the quality of life for most of our citizens and is the greatest single generator of demand. In other words, if one did not have the demand of school teachers, public servants and all of the other people who are involved in that second sector to go out and buy things- buy clothes, cars, fuel and all of the other consumer goods that we take for granted- the demand and capacity in the productive sector would simply disappear. So the relationship of one to the other is not parasitic; they are absolutely mutually dependent. 
I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  certain tabulations which indicate, first, the size of the employed civilian labour force in Australia from 1970 to 1977; second, employment and unemployment in Australia, 1 978; and, third, the employment participation rate in Australia from 1970 to 1977. 1 think that is the simplest way for honourable members to understand the position. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows: 


<graphic href="115131197908230_101_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908230_102_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908230_102_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908230_103_9.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Minister for his patience and kindness in this matter. The point is that unless we consider the relative increase in population and work force size, all of this talk about increases in absolute numbers is nonsensical and completely deceptive. Worst of all, it is self-deceptive. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The 1979-80 Australian Budget is the monetarist gospel according to Friedman, and marks a sharp rejection of the era of Keynesian economics which has dominated government thinking in Australia since 1942. It is the beginning of a new era in economic thinking, the New Stone Age, with a social philosophy in which the unemployed are left to the mercy of market forces, something straight from the pages of Ayn Rand. In the Budget speech presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last week precisely 10 sentences are devoted to unemployment or employment and I direct to the House's attention the first two. On page 47 of  Hansard,  the Treasurer says: 
Civilian employment grew by 1.4 per cent over the course of the year. Most encouragingly private sector employment rose by about  Vh  per cent and, for the first time since 1 973-74, there was a rise in jobs in manufacturing industry. 
That is a perfect example of how to deceive with statistics. Let us look at the reality. I think the coded meaning of the Treasurer's speech should be rewritten as follows: 
The absolute numbers of people in full or part time employment rose due to the rapid increase in proportion of the population of work force age. Proportionately the numbers in employment continued to fall. In absolute terms there were slightly more jobs in manufacturing as compared with last year. Relatively the long decline in this sector since 196S continues. 
On page 56 of the Treasurer's speech the contradiction is, perhaps inadvertently, certainly admitted. In the seventh of his 10 sentences on employment the Treasurer says: 
Against this background, we expect a moderate growth in job opportunities during the year. 
In his tenth sentence he says: 
We do not expect unemployment to improve in the year ahead. 
In the face of it there is a manifest contradiction between the two. It is not really a contradiction. What he means is that there is an increase in employment in absolute figures because the population of work force age is going up rapidly, although it will soon decline. However, the actual proportion of people in employment has fallen. There was one thing in the words of the pinchbeck Marlborough whom we heard a few moments ago with which I agreed and that was that we ought to be looking at unemployment in a wider context. In order to take up the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on that I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing unemployment as a percentage of the civilian labour force in the countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908285_55_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908285_56_0.jpg"></graphic>

-For the benefit of those honourable members who can hardly wait to get their copy of  Hansard  tomorrow I would just point out a few relevant pieces from the table. Let us compare the figures for unemployment in the United States of America and Australia as a percentage of the civilian labour force in 1974 and 1975, which were the Whitlam years, with those figures in 1978 and in January 1979, under the Fraser regime. In the United States in 1974, the figure was 5.6 per cent; in Australia, 2. 1 per cent. What is it we have all been told about the horrors of the unemployment situation under the Whitlam Government? In 1974, the United States position was nearly three times more serious. In 1975 the United States unemployment figure was 8.5 per cent; the Australian figure was 4.4 per cent- only half. I invite honourable members to listen to the 1978 figure- and this is under the great monetarist Government, this great Fried manite Government that we now have in front of us. In 1 978 the United States figures for civilian unemployment was six per cent. In Australia it was 6.3 per cent. For the first time we were ahead of the United Staes figure on unemployment. In January 1979 the United States figure was 5.8 per cent; in Australia the figure was 7 per cent. This is how these great economic masterminds progress. They progress backwards. 
Let me raise one or two points in connection with what the Minister for Defence said. I do not resile from the interjection that I made earlier. I do not believe- although Treasury certainly fervently believes it, and it certainly believed it in 1975- that inflation is the decisive factor that determines job levels, or if it does, it does so only indirectly. The question which will be more and more significant is so important that I would really like it put in  Hansard  in capital letters. It is a question that we have all got to face up to. The question is this: If the gap between the cost of labour and the cost of technology is growing wider, why would industry and commerce choose to create jobs when they can increase profit by decreasing labour costs and using the new technology? Often honourable members are confused because Ministers tell them that if only labour would withdraw its demands for increased wages suddenly the unemployment situation would be resolved. I believe this to be quite deceptive. There might be something in it if the relativity between the cost of labour and the cost of technology was in the order of 100 as to 105, or even 95 as to 105. 
In fact in many areas of service employment the gap between the cost of labour and the cost of technology is of the order of 25, 26, 27 to 1. In the case of the girls who might be displaced by word processors, the order of cost discrepancy is 27 to 1, and even if we abolished pay roll tax, and the tax deductibility for the cost of leasing the word processors, that only reduces the discrepancy from 27 to 1 to 25 to 1. In other words, the reduction in the differential is so insignificant that it is hard to see why it would have any marked effect. A couple of other significant statements which have been made in the last week illustrate the context in which the Budget was prepared. One of the most interesting statements actually occurred in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  reporting on the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting at Lusaka. It is to be found on page 579 in last Thursday's  Hansard.  I want to read one paragraph because it illustrates quite clearly what is in the mind of the Prime Minister and his advisers in rejecting Keynesian approaches to economics. The paragraph reads: 
Governments conditioned to believing that Keynesian policies were the answer to all problems stubbornly continued to pursue those policies, despite the onset of inflation, encouraged by electorates increasingly accustomed to believing that governments could provide for all needs. The extraordinary growth of the period came to be taken for granted. Increasingly, unrealistic demands were made on world economies, particularly by trade union movements which came to exercise unprecedented power, and it became fashionable to decry growth and to place impediments in its path. 
In other words, it is a standard Friedmanite monetarist line- a complete rejection of Keynesianism. The other quotation was a part of an extraordinary answer by the Treasurer to a question asked by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  As reported at page 429 of  Hansard ofl!  August, the Treasurer said:   the policy which the Labor Party adopted at the Adelaide conference, if implemented, will scare away foreign investment from this country and is so counterproductive to its concern about the level of unemployment in Australia. Part of the foreign investment policy adopted by the Labor Party at its conference in Adelaide was to establish within the Foreign Investment Review Board something that could be described as nothing short of a unit to spy on multinational corporations that might want to establish their operations in Australia. If the honourable member for Cunningham is really worried about the level of unemployment in Australia, he will urge his party to adopt a more realistic attitude towards both domestic and overseas investment in this country. 
I do not know whether the Treasurer is deceiving himself- he may actually believe it- or whether he is trying to deceive the House, but we must observe that multinationals have a strikingly low ratio of employment relative to investment. Take the mining sector, for example. This is enormously important to Australia. No one would deny that. Nobody would claim that it is a very significant employer relative to total numbers in the work force. Foreign investors are not philanthropists. They prefer a high profit with a low labour cost to a low profit with high labour cost. One can understand their point of view, but it is deceptive to think that, if hundreds of millions of dollars are invested, they will necessarily provide enormous numbers of jobs. This money may provide for very heavy capital investment, including labour displacing equipment. The suggestion that overseas investment will solve unemployment is based on a complete delusion. I think honourable members should recognise this. 
I believe that the situation with regard to employment is potentially far worse than is currently recognised in Australia. I agree with the Treasury on one thing and that is that Keynesianism is in many ways played out. One of the greatest dogmas of Keynes is now starting to become obsolete. That is the dogma that there is necessarily a direct relationship between output and employment. One can illustrate it on a graph by pointing out that there was an historic relationship between output and employment. Output tended to rise at a faster rate than employment. Increasingly a greater divergence has developed. But we now live in a completely different era of production. This is especially true in the period since 1971, the period since the microchip revolution, where there is a complete break in relationship between the level of output which is able to rise exponentially while the employment and other significant inputs are able to fall exponentially. This has never happened in economic history before. I regret that my graph cannot be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Let me illustrate something by propounding what perhaps might be described as 'Jones' law', which states that in the supply of products or general economic services on a massive scale, employment does not necessarily have a direct relationship to demand. In some cases employment appears to be in inverse proportion to demand, that is, that as demand goes up, relative demand for employment goes down. Let me give the House some examples of this. The international throughput of Shell Royal Dutch Petroleum has increased by 370 per cent since 1958 while its work force has fallen from 250,000 to 160,000. Supermarkets may have the same labour force as three or four family-run mixed businesses but the turnover might be more than 10 times as great. Japan, with large production runs and high technology, produces an average of 94 cars per worker per annum. However, Toyota, the largest producer, has a far lower labour content than Mazda. Australia produces an average of between 8.3 and 9.9 cars per worker per annum. If Australia increased its production of cars on such a scale as would enable it to compete on the world market, it seems unlikely that we would retain a ratio of one worker for every 10 cars built. 
Sales of petrol in Australia doubled between 1 970 and 1 977, but employment of garage pump attendants fell by 40 per cent. Mexican agriculture is doubling its output at a time when the agricultural work force is being dispossessed at a rate of 3,000 every day. Banking transactions in Australia are up while employment prospects are down. Telecom Australia expects to double its throughput in the next 10 years without increasing its work force. The State Electricity Commission of Victoria is steadily producing far more power while its employment is steadily falling. The explosives and petrochemical industries in Australia, which really have their headquarters in my electorate, have increased output by about 60 per cent in the last decade while employment has fallen due to natural wastage. Due to containerisation, throughput on the waterfront has increased rapidly while the labour force has fallen. The Americans are not starving and their demand for food increases each year, but American agriculture employs only 3 per cent of the work force. Nine thousand steelworkers in Japan produce as much steel as 100,000 workers in Britain. How much more would Britain have to produce to increase its steel work force? 
IBM will soon overtake General Motors- if it has not already done so- as the world's greatest manufacturing enterprise, but the labour content of its product is far lower. ITT now has the greatest turnover of any corporation in the world but with a notably low labour content. The total United States volume of printed material has risen 300 per cent since 1950, but numbers employed in the printing trade have fallen quite dramatically. We cannot assume that because demand is up in any particular area there will necessarily be an increase in related employment. It may be quite the reverse. 
Let me give one illustration of the new technology. The NCR standard mechanical cash register had 370 moving parts. Its electronic equivalent, which is cheaper but more efficient, has only 17 moving parts, less than 5 per cent. Honourable members can calculate the impact on labour demand for themselves. Work force does not need to be as high as it was before. 
I believe we are passing through a period of profound discontinuity with the past. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  pages 21 to 25 inclusive of the section called 'Continuity or discontinuity with the past?' from my submission 'Implications of a Post Industrial or Post Service Revolution on the Nature of Work' which I presented to the Myers committee on technological change in Australia. 
Leave granted. 

 The submission read as follows- 

Continuity or Discontinuity with the Past? 
Congenital optimists are inclined to assert that technological change in the 1970s does not differ significantly in its impact from any other period since the Industrial Revolution began. 
They believe that the best guide to what will happen in the future is to examine the past and to act on the assumption that there will be basic continuity in employment and that the community will react without difficulty to relatively gradual changes in technology, employment and life-style. 
Many optimists are confident that capitalism is essentially self-regulatory and assert an updated variant of Say's Lawthat there are, in effect, no ' limits to growth ' in employment, increased supply of goods creates more demand, and that increased demand (in its turn) creates more supply. This view was discredited in the Great Depression by J. M. Keynes but it has been exhumed for the present debate on employment (such as it is). 
Keynes is also relied on by the optimists for his view that employment levels are essentially determined by demand. While this is broadly true, there are some important exceptions, as will be described below. 
There are seven basic differences between Europe's situation during the Industrial Revolution and the problems of finding alternative employment in the Post Industrial or Post Service Revolution. 
The Industrial Revolution was marked by: 
An enormous population increase (UK 12 million in 1801, 22 million in 1851), especially in cities, with longer life expectancy and more live births. Emigration from the UK actually disguises the full extent' of increase. 
An enormous increase in energy and resource usecoal, iron and water. 
The development of new industries (e.g. railways) which employed huge resources and manpower. 
Exploitation of cheap raw materials, e.g., from India and Africa. 

 Major areas of development such as provision of utilities- electricity, gas, water, sewerage, and in urban housing, transport, schools and hospitals. A- 'scarcity' economy with supply falling behind demand. 
Job creation through mechanisation- i.e., the machines needed operators. 
Labour cheaper than technology. 
The Post-Industrial Revolution is marked by: 
Small population increases in economically advanced countries and with life expectancy stable or (as in US and Australia) falling slightly. 
Growing anxiety about the rate of resource depletion- as illustrated by the Club of Rome 's Limits to Growth report which pointed out that the US with 6 per cent of the world 's population consumes 40 per cent of the world 's annual output of raw materials. 
The development of sophisticated industries which arc increasingly based on the concept of miniaturisation. 
An end to the era of cheap raw materials from the Third World. 

 Major developments (utilities, schools, hospitals) largely achieved- a 'post-scarcity' economy: more emphasis on the consumption of services than goods. 
Job elimination through automation. Computerisation is cheaper and more reliable than human labour for many tasks and the development of the microprocessor makes computer costs dramatically lower. 
Labour dearer than technology. 
I adopt the words of the Nobel Prizewinning economist Professor Wassily Leontief (Issues of the Coming Years. Economic Impact No. 24 1978/4): 
If one were asked to single out the force that has contributed more than any other to the phenomenal economic growth of the last 200 years, one would answer, technological change. It was, however, the newly invented power loom that deprived thousands of English weavers of their jobs about 160 years ago. Today the American Telephone and Telegraph Company is installing automatic switching equipment that will permit it to handle the anticipated increase in the volume of long-distance calls and reduce the number of long-distance operators. 
The fact that machines do displace labour cannot be questioned. But many economic theorists (Karl Marx was not one of them! ) hastened to point out that at the time of the Luddite rebellions that this displacement did not mean that the total demand for labour and total employment had to diminish. An equal or even larger number of new jobs, these theorists claimed, would necessarily be created in the machine-building and subsidiary industries. But is this so? 
The answer to that question is of crucial importance for the understanding of the economic, social and political problems faced by labour in times of accelerated technological advance. That answer is 'No'. New machines, new technology introduced because it cuts production costs can indeed reduce the total demand for labour, that is, the total number of jobs available in all sectors of the economy taken together at any given price of labour- in other words at any given wage rate. 
To use a somewhat crass and even shocking analogy, new machines can reduce the total demand for human labour for the same reason and essentially through the same process that, a generation ago, led to the replacement of draft horses by trucks, tractors, and automobiles. To argue that workers displaced by machines should necessarily be able to find work building these machines makes no more sense than to expect the horses displaced by mechanical vehicles to have been employed directly or indirectly, in various branches of the expanding automotive industry.' 
When asked for details of likely job creation in the future, advocates of the 'Nothing much is happening and we don't need to think about it' position are inclined to say, 'It is unreasonable to ask. If you had asked economists 200 years ago what the new jobs or products would be, they would not have been able to answer . . . and yet new jobs were found.' This is simply not true and reveals a staggering ignorance of economic history. The great changes in technology for the period 1780-1914 were thought about over a long period- for example the application of steam to textile manufacturing, the replacement of wood by iron and steel, the replacement of the horse by mechanical vehicles, flying machines, the new medical techniques, modern weaponry, mechanised agriculture, photography, refrigeration, using electricity for light and heating, had all been written about for generations, if not centuries. They didn't just spring up like mushrooms. H. G. Wells in the 1890s had a very clear idea of what men would be working on in the late 20th Century. In 1900 Henry Adams discussed the use of atomic power. It is sheer intellectual laziness to say, 'We don 't have to identify areas of job creation. Nobody did in the past. ' 
The new jobs and the new technology, after all, are designed to fulfil human needs- and it is doubtful if there are any absolutely new needs: new products are essentially refinements of our need for shelter, food, heat, entertainment, education, transport, etc. It is often argued, naively, that new products/job opportunities will come out of the blue. Why? They never have. Even space travel is a concept that dates from the 1 8th Century: computers date from 1 834: flying machines from Leonardo's time: precision engineering from the 1 7th Century. Is it suggested that human beings will develop an absolutely new function which will require an as-yet-undreamt-of technology? When modern writers such as Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke write of future industry, they see it as capital intensive and with very few workers. 
From Kittyhawk (1903) to men on the Moon (1969) is only 66 years. From the first electronic computer (1946) to the micro-chip ( 1 97 1 ) is only 25 years. The gap between discovery and final form is closing. By the time the Committee of Inquiry completes its report it may be partly outdated. 
Trying to understand the contemporary problems is difficult- impossible if we are trying to deal with a war of rapid movement by fighting from fixed positions in the trenches. 
-I thank the House. I urge the Government, in the few minutes remaining, to invite Simon Nora, the InspectorGeneral of Finances in France and the co-author of the recent report  'L'informatisation  de la Societe' to visit Australia to discuss the impact of technology on employment, especially in the services which comprise nearly 70 per cent of the Australian work force. Nora is regarded as the greatest expert in Europe on this subject. I had the benefit of long discussions with Simon Nora in Paris in June this year and wish to quote a few things which he said. M. Nora made these points: 
The greatest employment problem in a Post Industrial/Post Service era is the necessity of retaining two quite distinct sectors: 
productive and profitable industries which can satisfy home needs and provide goods for export. 
'convivial' industries (to adopt the language of Ivan Illich) which are intended to promote the quality of life, but do not produce tangible goods or services which are capable of being exported or sold at a profit, for example, education, health and welfare services. 
The real problem is ideological- that two economic systems are co-existing within the one society but with completely different aims, organisation and funding. One is hierarchical, centralised and capitalist and the other is (or ought to be) egalitarian, decentralised and non-commercial. 
Society should aim not to have two sectors but an infinity of separate cases- that is, that society should recognise the interdependence of its sectors and avoid the false dichotomy of ' asserting that only things which generate profit are worthwhile, and everything else is wasteful. 
However, any attempts to produce a more co-operative, convivial society based on sharing will come to nothing if society is competing for scarce resources. The Nora Report has no hope of being adopted if people are queuing up at petrol stations. 
I have come reluctantly to agree with Nora's assertion that essentially work sharing and job creation are exactly the same thing. It is up to every society to recognise that it can adopt its own mix' of labour plus labour displacing technology- provided that it is prepared to pay the consequential price. The Fraser Government has chosen the 'mix' of reducing total labour cost and increasing the input of labour-displacing technology to provide for internationally competitive exports, but the cost is a social one. It is to be paid first by the unemployed and their families. Ultimately the cost will be met by society as a whole. It will be paid for in terms of alienation, crime and, perhaps, urban terrorism. Increased capital investment will no doubt lead to higher productivity per head, but it will not necessarily provide an increased number of jobs. 
The greatest areas of likely job losses are in the service industries where labour-saving methods at low cost can decimate high cost employment. I believe that Australia should plan for these  changes. They cannot be introduced overnight. They may not even be able to be introduced in three years by a Hayden government. We need to look forward to ( 1 ) a national superannuation scheme, (2) maximum eligibility for retirements benefits after a 35-year working life time, (3) more equitable educational absorption so that working class children have the same access to tertiary education and professional employment as do middle class children, (4) more flexible attitudes to work, leisure and time use and, (5) recognition of paid domestic work as a major area of job creation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that there are instances where the installation of new plant and equipment by companies in the chemical industry has been scheduled for completion by 30 June 1979 but which has been subject to delays beyond the control of the companies concerned with consequent risk of the loss of the investment allowance. 
Will he undertake to have the relevant legislation reviewed and if necessary amended so that investments, which are desirable in the national interest, are not penalised in this way and the companies concerned are encouraged to make further investments in plant and equipment, thus providing employment in its construction and operation. 
-I direct my question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Are you aware that universities and scientific bodies in many countries throughout the world have commemorated the 80th birthday on 3 September 1979 of the person who by general consent is regarded as the greatest living Australian-  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet? What action, if any, is to be taken by the Parliament of Australia to mark this event. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Did Australia participate in the International Year of the Child sand castle competition in Acapulco, Mexico in 1979. 
Can the Minister say which nations took part in the competition. 
If so, did Canada, Great Britain and New Zealand decline invitations. 
Who recommended Australian participation. 
5 ) How many contestants were sent from Australia. 
How were the contestants selected, by whom, and what criteria were used to determine selection. 
What was the total cost of Australian participation. 
On what day did the Australian contingent leave, on what day did it return and in what cities did it stay overnight during its absence from Australia. 
Was there an official evaluation of the success or otherwise of the Australian contingent. 
10) Is it proposed that Australia participate in future sand castle competitions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will the Minister bring up to date the answer of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to Question No. 128 concerning reciprocal agreements on social security  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 571). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) In 1975 did  Mr Sellwood  of the Department of Social Security visit Malta to negotiate an agreement; if so, what were his terms of reference. 
Was any agreement reached in principle; if so, what were the major points of the agreement. 
3 ) What action has been taken to ratify the agreement. 
Will the Minister investigate this matter to ensure that action to ratify the agreement is expedited. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the state of relations between Australia and Malta. Malta has a population of 330,000 while there are 370,000 people of Maltese binh or origin living in Australia. I point out that the 1976 census revealed that there were 27,062 Victorians who were born in Malta, of whom 35 per cent live in my electorate of Lalor. In the 1920s  Sir Gerald  Strickland, who was formerly the Governor of Tasmania, then of Western Australia and then of New South Wales, became Prime Minister of Malta, and he was a zealous promoter of Maltese migration to Australia. For most Maltese Australia has always been the promised land, the first choice for all those who wish to migrate. For all those Maltese who have migrated- and economic necessity has forced a very large proportion of Maltese to leave- Australia has always been the first choice. There would hardly be a Maltese family which does not have large numbers of relatives in Australia. Unfortunately, since 1965 there has been a distinct coolness in relationships between Australia and Malta. In that year there was a disagreement between Dom Mintoff, the Labor Prime Minister of Malta, and Gough Whitlam, the Labor Prime Minister of Australia. Because of the special, virtually unique relationship between Australia and Malta- the situation where there are more Maltese in Australia than in the home country-  Mr Mintoff  suggested that Australia should provide direct financial aid to the Maltese economy.  Mr Whitlam,  I am sure with his characteristic tact, whilst conceding that there were special circumstances, said that Australia's foreign policy demanded that our overseas aid should be provided in our own region. Of course the situation in Malta has deteriorated - 
-I meant 1975. Nothing has happened since the change of government in 1975 to improve relationships with Malta. In 1976 the Maltese Government made an approach to the Fraser Government, saying that it would like to send a ministerial deputation to Australia so that it could put its economic problems to Australia to see if there was any way in which Australia was prepared to assist Malta. The Maltese Government was told at that stage that the time was not opportune; that there were all sorts of priorities that the Fraser Government had that did not include Malta. The tragedy is that nothing has happened since 1975 to improve the state of relationships. I should make perhaps two exceptions. In 1975 the Whitlam Government sent an officer of the Department of 
Social Security to examine the rather vexed problem of the reciprocity of pension rights with Malta. I understand that a report was made to the Department and since 1975 it has not been acted upon. In 1978,  Mr G.  M. Hill, of the Department of Trade and Resources, was sent to examine the possibility of additional trade between Australia and Malta.  Mr Hill's  report has been received by the Australian Government but nothing has happened to implement it. 
I think that because of the very close relationship with Malta, Australia ought to take a very keen interest in what is going on in this ancient community. In the 1970s Malta faced a major change, due to different strategic considerations in the Mediterranean, away from the concept of being an island fortress. The negotiated withdrawal of Britain from the Maltese dockyards, airfields and barracks has resulted in an annual net loss of $80m a year to Malta, including what was a direct grant to the Maltese Budget of $40m per annum. When I talked with the Maltese Minister for Labour, Welfare and Culture, Miss Agatha Barbara in May of this year, she stressed that Malta does not want cash grants. What it does want is assistance in three areas, namely, technical aid, assistance in export of surpluses at below market costs, and lower meat prices. It is a country that is desperately short of raw materials. I hope that the Government may do something to expedite assistance. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order. The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) What impact have the regional mail centres had on the speed of mail deliveries in Melbourne. 
Is it a fact that ordinary mail bags now no longer have security closure devices. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
What is the industrial labour productivity figure for each year from 1 965 to 1 978, using 1 965 as the base year at 100. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What percentage of the workforce is directly engaged in agriculture in respect of each of the States and Territories. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Which countries have acceded to the European Patent Convention Treaty since his answer to question No. 3237  ^Hansard,  3 April 1979, page 1463). 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the questions without notice about 'nominal directorships' addressed to the Minister by me on 22 August and by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports on 28 August. On both occasions the Minister undertook to consider the matter and report back to the House. Is it a fact that the concept of 'norninal director' is unknown to the law? Is it a fact that acceptance of appointment as a director involves responsibilities imposed under various Acts and the directors are then liable for failures to meet these obligations, which cannot be disclaimed by pleading ignorance or assuming the status of 'nominal director'? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1 979: 
With respect to the official surrender of Japanese forces at Rabaul in August 1 945, will he ascertain and advise what files concerning this event are held in ( a) the Australian Archives, (b) the Australian War Memorial and/or (c) the National Library. 
Was an inquiry conducted into any events which may have occurred at the surrender. 
) If the files are still in existence are they available for inspection; if not, why not. 
-As indicated earlier, I second the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and believe that if the proposed amendments are carried they will make this legislation far less partisan and more worthy of support from the Australian people. I have a profound and growing scepticism about what might be called the whole 'cult of security' and its associated frame of mind. In opposition to the cult of security I would like to advocate and promote an intellectually based scepticism. I cannot say a 'cult of scepticism' because scepticism and cults are antipathetic. The cult of security is based on the fallacy that the safety of this nation, and others like it, depends in large part on the maintenance of an intelligence organisation which guards the nation 's secrets and protects its organisations and leaders, apart from normal police protection. The cult is based on an inversion of an archetypal legend found in Greek mythology, the story of Pandora's box. The idea was that her box held a variety of evils and that at all costs it had to be kept closed. But if by some chance the box was opened these evils would burst out and the world would never be the same again. 
The apologists for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation believe- very sincerely in some cases- that somewhere there is a collection of files marked 'TOP SECRET' or 'UMBRA' which contain the nation's secrets and if these precious documents were exposed the security of the nation would be imperilled. This seems a ludicrous scenario. What is less ludicrous is the extreme difficulty for this Parliament to evaluate in any serious way the activities of ASIO and its sister organisations. We cannot criticise it for its failures because they are secret. We cannot even praise it for its achievements, if any, because the achievements are secret too. In fact, there is nothing to do except to trust the words of those set in authority over us. 
We are told that we should accept the findings of  Mr Justice  Hope in his report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. Certainly, I believe the judge to be a man of great intelligence and integrity. Unfortunately, I am not allowed to read his full report because much of it remains secret. I cannot examine the material which led  His  Honour to reach his judgment because much of that is secret too. We are also told that we should accept that the present DirectorGeneral of ASIO,  Mr Justice  Woodward, is a man of integrity and that we can trust him not to carry out any of the excesses of his predecessors in office. I accept that too. I have great admiration for  Mr Justice  Woodward and can only express my amazement that the Fraser Government has left him in his position. He is one of very few surviving administrative appointments from the Whitlam years. I suspect that the Government may have used him in order to allay fears about the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, which he has done with great success. But we may well find that he will return to the bench on the day after these Bills receive the royal assent. It should be remembered that ours is a government of laws, not of men. We cannot accept a Bill which we do not otherwise like on the grounds that the individual who will be administering the law is somebody for whom we have respect and admiration. 
Sigmund Freud wrote somewhere that human beings can be divided broadly into two categories- anal retentionists and oral expressives. Members of this Parliament, irrespective of party, can be classified in the same way. Temperamentally, one group is timid, anxious, fearful of external threats, seeking psychological support from authority figures and other support systems, convinced that there are vital secrets locked away somewhere which, if revealed, will destroy the security of the world in which it lives. The need for a security service is, for that group, not just a parrot phrase, but a matter of psychological- perhaps even physiologicalnecessity. The other basic human type, the oral expressives- to whom the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  and I belong- who are probably in a minority here tonight, are more confident and self-reliant, sceptical about authority figures and doubtful whether society can be destroyed by passing particular pieces of information from one group to another, or even from one nation to another. The problem with the first group is that it may become despairing about the possibility of society solving its difficulties, may adopt a paranoically threatening view of the external world and may look to a security service rather than a well informed, vigorous and sceptical democratic system to maintain stability. In other words there is less reliance on the political process and more reliance on the security system. Of course each security organisation pours into the credulous ears of its political masters exactly what it wants them to hear. 
Let me give honourable members a horrific example from a democratic country of how an essentially paranoid view about secrecy can create general hysteria and distort and pervert the traditional norms of law and justice. In June 1953 Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were electrocuted in Sing Sing prison on a charge of conspiracy to commit espionage in wartime, for passing on technical details of atomic weapons to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in September 1945, still technically during wartime, at a time when Russia was an ally of the United States of America. Judge Irving Kaufman, in sentencing them to death, said that the Rosenbergs had 'altered the course of human history' and had caused 'the Communist aggression in Korea with the resulting casualties exceeding 50,000 '. This view, which was popular enough at the time, now seems demented. We know from the documents made available now under the Freedom of Information Act that the material passed on to the Russians was both piddling and redundant compared with the material supplied earlier by Klaus Fuchs. The judge's reaction was based on an assumption that the USSR had no high level technical capacity and that the only way it could develop an atomic bomb was by stealing secrets from the Americans. He also assumed that a bloody and prolonged war in a divided nation with a 3,000 year history was not the product of domestic pressures but the direct result of a sketch of an atomic bomb component drawn from memory by a machinist with no scientific training. This is a perfect example of an essentially paranoid view of history. 
Let me give a ludicrous Australian example which I have cited before in this House but which bears repeating. It is a Joint Intelligence Organisation document Note No. 2/1975 headed World Oil: Recent Developments' and marked TOP SECRET UMBRA. To be kept under lock and key and never removed from the office unless transmitted in accordance with the regulations'. The document contains a report of quite stupefying banalty examining effects of oil price rises announced after a meeting of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna in December 1974. Far more information is contained in contemporary issues of the  Economist,  freely available. But in any case, we have to ask: Who is protected by the secrecy? The Russians would have all the information already- both from the activities of their own agents in Vienna and from having bought copies of the  Economist.  At JIO headquarters I could imagine the antipodean equivalents of Biggies and Bulldog Drummond reading the  Economist,  laboriously typing their summaries and routinely marking them 'TOP SECRET UMBRA'. 
Some political associates of mine see ASIO as a sinister organisation. When I say that its staff seem much more like a collection of Keystone Cops I am told: 'That is just a front. They only pretend to be incompetent'. But it is true that over a long period members of ASIO have put out an extraordinarily ill informed picture of the world. I think we lack political sophistication as a nation. I refer to our extraordinary, dim witted treatment of the  Dunera  refugees in 1940 and the extraordinary lengths that we went to with those 2,500 bedraggled Jewish refugees who were given the stern warning that they must under no circumstances conduct political meetings at which they advanced Nazi or fascist propaganda. One could hardly imagine a more idiotic example of misinformation. Yet it was absolutely characteristic of this nation at the time. 
A friend of mine left the Communist Party after many years of membership. Soon after he was approached by an ASIO man. This was after 1956. He made an arrangement to meet the ASIO man in an out of the way suburban pub in Melbourne. After the ASIO man had established his identity he dropped his voice conspiratorially and asked my friend: 'Who's this Leon Trotsky we've been hearing so much about?' It is impossible to evaluate ASIO's track record because we know so little about it. The Victoria Police has great contempt for ASIO's methods of investigation. ASIO failed dismally in its handling of security at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Sydney which culminated in the tragic bomb incident at the Hilton Hotel. I could not agree more with the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  who said, 'Yes, we need protection against terrorists'. If we have to rely on ASIO to protect us against terrorism then it is about time we left the country. It has no track record in this area at all. ASIO failed dismally in its handling of the various bombing incidents against Yugoslav property. We do know that ASIO spent a good deal of time snooping around trade unions trying to find out what unionists were doing but so far as actual, active, serious work in security is concerned in relation to subversion, real or apparent, and trying to deal with terrorism ASIO has no track record at all. The security of Australia depends not on ASIO but on an alert, informed and sceptical Australian democracy. 
We have had much discussion lately about work value cases and I find it almost impossible to make any judgment on the work value of ASIO. If the entire staff of ASIO went on long service leave for 12 months without anyone knowing, would anything change in Australia? ASIO can claim that after all there has not been a single revolution in Australia since ASIO was set up in 1949; therefore it must be doing a great job. But of course we did not have a revolution in the first 49 years of the Commonwealth either. It is very difficult to make out any kind of rational case for work value so far as ASIO is concerned. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  paragraphs 208 to 221 of  Mr Justice  Hope's fourth report on the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
Leave granted. 

 The paragraphs read as follows- 208. . . . intelligence assessment is no simple or routine activity but a highly skilled and subtle task. I must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognized, or available in any large measure. 209. The intelligence officer needs to be a person of good education, sound practical sense, and with an insight into people. He or she must have good research skills [4-70] and the ability to think and write clearly. He needs to be sensitive to political policy issues before the Government. ASIO needs to encourage those in the organization who have manifested these qualities, and to seek vigorously in the market place for more such. [4-7 1 ] 2 10. But intelligence analysis also needs access to a range of experts. I shall mention only a few. 211. First, there are people with skills in information storage and retrieval. The need for ASIO to attend to this matter is very great. 212. Secondly, people with skills in languages are needed. ASIO does not have a good record here. 213. Thirdly, ASIO needs people with some expertise in political science and related disciplines. ASIO should be a place where the study of marxism, in all its forms and manifestations, is a high academic discipline. Some people in ASIO should have not only graduate, but postgraduate, qualifications in these areas. 214. Fourth, since ASIO is so much involved with looking at people, there ought to be officers with skills in sociology, psychology and related areas. 2 15. Fifth, technical and scientific expertise may be needed more often than is believed. Where espionage is so often devoted to stealing technical and scientific secrets, the means of attack may not always be apparent to a layman. 2 16. In pan E, I make further observations relevant to this matter. 
Credibility and reliability 217. ASIO should develop processes of evaluation of sources, independently of the operations area. It must have the resources to do its job properly. It must have complete access to all material bearing on its task in each case. 218. Each intelligence report should also be read by the appropriate ASIO intelligence desk officer. He should be given clearly to understand that it is his function critically to examine such reports, and not just to take the information they contain at face value. If he doubts the accuracy of a report, the system should ensure that the query is resolved quickly and objectively. 219. I stress objectivity because there is a tendency, especially with those running agents, to think that their agent "must" be reliable. He may not be. He may be a clever liar. Other information, from independent sources, is needed to establish objectively the truth of any and every agent report. 220. Assessment and evaluation is also needed to maintain an effective intelligence collection programme. Without monitoring income intelligence, ASIO could not gauge whether it adequately covered existing intelligence targets and properly determined new ones. 221. Without checking information supplied by agents against independently verified information, and without having regular assessments made of the agent operations, I do not see how ASIO can place reliance on its agent reports. In part E of this report I shall examine changes in ASIO's structure and working methods needed to achieve adequate assessment of intelligence. 
-I thank the House. I draw attention to the key paragraph, paragraph 208, in which  Mr Justice  Hope says:  . . intelligence assessment is no simple or routine activity but a highly skilled and subtle task. I must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognised, or available in any large measure. 
The whole basis of ASIO is that it has a special God-given, rather than statute-given, right which places it above public scrutiny, able to act on its own conception of public duty, secure in its secrecy and able to do things that are denied the elected Parliament. I conclude from my reading of  Mr Justice  Hope's report that ASIO in its present form lacks the sophistication and capacity to evaluate that we should expect from an intelligence organisation. I draw attention to  Mr 
Justice Hope's third report and to several quotations which I think the House ought to take careful note of. He quotes from Professor Hugh Trevor-Roper, the Regius Professor of Modern History at Oxford, now Lord Trevor-Roper. Professor Trevor-Roper worked with MI5 during the war and in his book  The Philby Affair  he wrote: 
Secret intelligence is the continuation of open intelligence by other means. So long as governments conceal a part of their activities, other governments, if they wish to base their policy on full and correct information, must seek to penetrate the veil. This inevitably entails varying methods. But however the means may vary, the end must still be the same. It is to complement the results of what, for convenience, we may call 'public' intelligence: that is, the intelligence derived from rational study of public or at least avowable sources. Intelligence, in fact, is indivisible '. 
That is the key sentence. If there is one sentence that I want honourable members to remember from my speech tonight it is: 
Intelligence, in fact, is indivisible'. 
The quotation continues: 
The greater part of it must always be acquired by open or official methods. Only a relatively small area requires secret penetration, or espionage. Nevertheless that small area may be vital . . . it must always be continuous with 'open ' intelligence. 
The point of course is that as time goes on, as the time frame changes and the point of reference changes too. Things that seem absolutely essential to keep secret become matters of absolute irrelevance. In other words, material about the atomic bomb which 20 years ago was regarded as terribly secret is now available for open scrutiny. There is no secret about it any more. The information is the same but our point of view has changed. On page 5 of the third report  Mr Justice  Hope, in summing up quotes Professors M. S. McDougal, H. D. Lasswell and W. M. Reisman on the intelligence function. They wrote: 
Basic to any body politic is the realism of the judgments that enter into the stream of public decision. Fundamental to judgment is intelligence which is the gathering, processing and dissemination of problem-identifying and problemsolving information. The five intellectual tasks are the clarification of goals, the description of trends, the analysis of conditions, the projection of developments and the formulation of policy alternatives. The intelligence process is responsible for locating all sources of knowledge that may be useful to decision makers, and for the mobilisation of the information relevant to questions of immediate importance. 
One page 6 of the same report  Mr Justice  Hope wrote: 
The Australian intelligence community is fragmented, poorly co-ordinated and organised. The agencies lack proper guidance direction and control. They do not have good or close relations with the system of government they should serve. In some cases, they have lacked funds and other resources (for example, adequate staff) to do the jobs expected of them. In other cases they have used lack of funds as an alibi for not doing jobs they should have done. 
This is not a wildly impressive story. The point about it is that if one looks at ASIO's contribution to Austraiian politics in the past one sees that it led us completely up a blind alley over the Vietnam war. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  pointed out this afternoon, if it was a matter of providing something for the Army Minister, such as a report on a child in a school cadet corps who was thought to be harbouring subversive thoughts, yes, ASIO was absolutely capable of producing a report on that. But in respect of any kind of sensitive intelligent evaluation of what was going on in Vietnam, no, it was out of ASIO's depth; not quite its scene. In respect of dobbing in somebody who was heard to say in a pub something about trade union activity, yes, it was absolutely able to do that. But if it was a question of providing some sort of an evaluation on what China was doing throughout the world, no, it was absolutely out of its depth and it did not even have the books to rely on. 
A number of alarming things are in the Hope report. I just want to touch on several more. In paragraph 243 of the fourth report.  Mr Justice  Hope, referring to what ASIO was doing in the trade union area, wrote: 
The third area concerning which difficulties arise in respect of the communication of intelligence is that of trade unions. ASIO does not, and properly does not, surveil employer organizations or trade unions as such. However, the surveillance by ASIO or left-wing radical organizations judged to be subversive or potentially subversive, and of the members of those organizations, has led to ASIO obtaining intelligence concerning the activities of trade unions which are controlled by members of those organizations or which the members of those organizations seek to control. As in the case of the organization and of their members, the communication of this intelligence can only be a matter of concern for ASIO, or justified, if it is judged to affect or to be in the interests of security. Activities do not affect security merely because they make for, or do result in, industrial disruption. 
But there is an alarming kind of logical slide which says in effect that advocating change is the equivalent of subversion and subversion is the equivalent of political illegitimacy. Therefore, maintaining the existing authority organisations in society is valid and deserves the protection of ASIO whereas any organisation which takes a contrary point of view has to be under the surveillance of ASIO. This is a view very similar to the view that  Mr Salisbury  took when he was Police Commissioner in South Australia.  His  view was that he had responsibility, that his oath of office gave him an obligation to authorities above the elected government of the day. But just as elected governments can go in and they can go out on the vote of the people somebody who takes the view that he has a permanent conception of his duty that is above the political process cannot really be touched by the vote of the people. I think that is tragic if we are serious about maintaining democracy. I conclude by referring to paragraphs 245 and 246 of the Hope report which relate to the Press and other media. Paragraph 245 states: 
Evidence is available to me that satisfies me that ASIO has in the past provided selected people with security intelligence material for publication. 
Paragraph 246 states: 
The material provided was apparently drawn from information available in the public arena. It seems to have been ASIO's intention that the material be not attributed to it. 
We need an organisation that is above criticism. The only way we can obtain that is by adopting the amendments moved so ably by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I may say that there is not much to reply to in the speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  The first point to be made is my surprise that he is replying at all. So far as the Special Broadcasting Service is concerned the Minister is only an interested bystander. It is not his area. The Special Broadcasting Service has been taken away from him, much to his resentment, and it is in the hands of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is not gracing the table today. It is the views of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that we would have preferred to hear on this subject. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications concentrated very heavily on the issue of jobs for the boys' in replying to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. In defence of the appointment of  Mr Georgiou  to this extraordinarily sensitive, political position, the Minister has read out letters or telegrams of support. It is notorious- I am sure the Minister will not deny it- that the Government has been very active in the last few days drumming up support from ethnic groups in the community and asking them to send messages of support. I ask the Minister whether that is not a fact, and whether it is also a fact that other groups, such as the Ecumenical Migration Centre in Melbourne, have refused to send messages of support to  Mr Georgiou. 
About 400,000 permanent residents of Australia have little or no fluency in English. Their need for news, information and entertainment, cannot be met without specialised services in their own language. Between 1949 and 1972 successive Liberal governments- 23 years of them- did nothing whatever to provide media services for migrants or migrant access to the media. It was always dismissed as impossible, undesirable, too expensive and not a proper role for government. The Whitlam Government between 1972 and 1975 set up three stations to provide ethnic radio services, 2EA, 3EA and 3ZZ. Essentially, opportunities were given to the ethnic communities themselves to provide their own programs and generate their own audiences, subject to many broad guidelines. But it was not subject to the heavy hand of government interference; while I concede that it was done initially within a certain administrative framework, there was no interference, under successive Ministers for the media, to direct them to push a particular political line. 
With the  election of  1975 came the Fraser Government, with its growing recognition that there were many potential votes in migrant communities. It was decided to politicise ethnic radio. Ethnic community access radio station 3ZZ, which had allowed a wide variety of viewpoints to be expressed, was destroyed and 3EA and 2EA were highly and narrowly politicised. In November 1977 the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill was passed by the Parliament. It set up- in Part IIIA- the Special Broadcasting Service, SBS. The Australian Labor Party opposed this because the SBS plan proposed a system in which programs made under government auspices would then be dished out to migrant audiences rather than ethnic communities being given an opportunity to express their own views. In addition to the radio stations 2EA and 3EA there was a 13-week pilot program on Australian Broadcasting Commission television, which began in April 1979. It ran for three hours each Sunday morning and was launched by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with the ominous prophesy: 'I will be taking a close, personal interest in this initiative'. He meant it, too. The SBS is a perfect vehicle for a variety of purposes. It is a Trojan horse within the ABC capable of having important media areas transferred to it, capable of channelling public moneys into private profit and politically 'safe' under direct ministerial control. 
The SBS has been created to oversee the development and management of ethnic radio and television by the appointment of politically safe appointees both to the SBS and to the advisory bodies which are supposed to inform the SBS and by a policy of 'non-political broadcasting'that is, broadcasting that supports the status quo- and most disturbingly by continued ministerial interference and involvement in the affairs of ethnic broadcasting and the Prime Minister's close, personal interest'. The end result has been a propaganda machine which now costs the Australian taxpayer in excess of $6m- a machine used solely to reinforce conservative policy and as an area of personal political patronage by the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues. 
It is an initiative that the Third Reich would have been justifiably proud of, and that parallel is not lost upon the ethnic communities. In a paper given at the second annual seminar qf Ethnic Broadcasters Incorporated last year one prominent ethnic broadcaster,  Mr George  Kokoti, the Secretary of Ethnic Broadcasters Incorporated, aired his. concern over the SBS and this Government's ethnic broadcasting policy in the following terms: 
Didn't  Goebbels also know what was good for the German people? Didn't he also produce acceptable programs? Didn't he know what was good for the future of their development? 
He added that that was what frightened him. Such discontent among ethnic communities about the SBS and the Government's policy on ethnic broadcasting is displayed each week in the many foreign language newspapers that Australia now enjoys. 
How does the Prime Minister justify the incident that occurred during the ethnic television program on the morning of Sunday, 8 July when a Ustasha flag and a map of the Nazi puppet World War II state of Croatia were shown in a program purportedly about Yugoslavia? That program when originally received by the SBS was one concerned with all of the republics of modern Yugoslavia. The program was heavily edited to concentrate on Croatia. Its soundtrack was dubbed and 'Croatia' was constantly referred to rather than 'Yugoslavia'. This program suggested the heavy influence of right wing extremists who wield power and exert great influence in the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party. The ethnic community's reaction to such blatant propaganda was clearly evidenced in the ethnic Press following that program of 8 July. 
On the other hand, to give an example on the other side, we have been informed that a statement issued by  Mr Dom  Mintoff, the Labor Prime Minister of Malta, was to have been broadcast but, as reported in the  Nation Review  of 18 January 1979, a senior SBS official felt that the statement by Dom Mintoff would have to undergo a 'filtering process' because it was inflammatory ' and could not be allowed to go to air without going through that filtering process. In sharp contrast to that filtering process which leftist viewpoints or program material must endure is the freedom allowed the Vietnamese program on 3EA. It has been described as:   . . one of the tools which extremist elements within the Vietnamese community are using- that program has been used to send out the names and addresses of the (pro postwar Vietnam) Union of Vietnamese in Australia. 
In other words, it has been used to identify them and to do so in a way that may lead to discrimination against them. Such actions engender political confrontation and, in fact, have led to actual acts of violence by way of demonstrations. Yet the Government and the management of the SBS have not acted to provide an even hand in the treatment of Vietnamese issues. Right wing broadcasters do not find any difficulty in gaining air time on the SBS- run radio stations, 2EA and 3EA. It is very striking that even the American magazine  Variety  referred in its 28 January 1979 issue to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications as:   . . defending an apparent challenge for control of ethnic broadcasting by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Michael MacKellar, whose hard-line tactics haven't endeared him to immigrant communities. 
The Prime Minister, of course, has taken a very keen interest. The SBS is prone to the continued whim not so much of the Minister who ought to be responsible but of the Prime Minister and his Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Telephone calls from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs have disrupted meetings which the Executive Director of the SBS has held with his officers over the nature of the ethnic television service. The Prime Minister was not above calling the SBS's Sydney headquarters last week to ensure that nothing was on file that would incriminate him in the appointment of his senior advisor,  Mr Petro  Georgiou, to the position of Secretary to the Ethnic Television Review Panel. It is striking that many of the people associated with ethnic broadcasting and many of those appointed by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the advisory bodies, the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council and the State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council, are very prominent members of the Liberal Party. I refer to  Mr Inchehara,  an unsuccessful pre-selection candidate for the New South Wales Liberal Party's Senate ticket who is on NEBAC. A number of other politically safe appointees are on these councils. 
I conclude by quoting the words of  Mr Myles  Wright, the former  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and a man not known for his radical leanings, who described the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service as 'the most sinister development in the Australian media'. In the Melbourne  Age  of 3 
January 1978 he warned that Greeks ought to beware of members of parliament bearing gifts. He commented: 
The new service is not an independent statutory authority in any sense that is generally understood. Its chief executive is to be appointed not by the members of the Authority but by the government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarsOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Bills before trie House have not been adequately debated because the House and the Senate lack the raw material on which they can form a proper judgment. The central issue is the relative priority to be given to the power of two institutions: First, the democratic Parliament, the method of operation of which is open and subject to intensive scrutiny by the Press and by the public; and secondly, a bureaucratic secret organisation the method of operation of which is unknown and is not subject to any scrutiny at all. Members of such committees as the Public Accounts Committee are well aware of the ease with which the government departments simply put the word 'secret' or 'confidential' on files which involve material and which ought to be open to scrutiny by instruments of this Parliament. It is a very common practice. Once we say that it is secret censorship is applied to it and people say: 'Well, that is the end of it. We do not need to scrutinise it any further'. Like all forms of censorship, the central assumptions on which it is based are unspoken, rarely examined and absolutely taken for granted. People are inclined to parrot the words: reasons of State '. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  speak last night. What worried me about his speech was that I could imagine an opposite number in the Supreme Soviet in Moscow saying exactly the same thing about the KGB. I could imagine such a person saying: 'Our entire social structure is tied up with the KGB. Its reasons of operation must not be subject to scrutiny. If it says that what it does is right, we have to accept that on face value'. I think that is a terrible thing. We are inclined to argue that everything that happens in a security organisation must be taken on trust. Such organisations do not have an impressive record. I believe that a legislation committee is the most appropriate forum for this case to be examined. 
I draw the attention of the House to some matters which were raised in the Hope report and which ought to be subject to scrutiny in this House, I refer to the question of the appropriate criteria to be applied in security matters.  Mr Justice  Hope stated in paragraph 266 of his fourth report, volume I: 
For organizational reasons it may be necessary, and it is appropriate, that criteria for security checking purposes should be formulated. 
Formulated by whom? By the organisation itself or by a democratic and responsible community? The report continues: 
Investigators need guidance as to what it is they are investigating, and consistency of approach is important. 
From where do they get the guidance? Do they get it from within the organisation itself or from us? The report continues: 
Three qualifications must, however, be borne in mind. First, the criteria must be constantly under review. 
Reviwed by whom? Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? We should remember the old Roman slogan: 'Who guards the guardians?' They have to be subject to some kind of review by somebody other than themselves. The report continues, referring to the criteria: 
Secondly, they should normally be applied by, but should not bind, the Director-General. Thirdly, they should reflect security, and not other, considerations. 
Then we come to the very important part. This is the difference between an organisation that is essentially frozen inside its castle and an organisation which is not frozen, such as this Parliament, which is subject to democratic pressures. Paragraph 267 states: 
The criteria should not be determined once and for all. We do not live in a static society, whose institutions, moral standards, political views and social habits do not change. The criteria must be reconsidered as the society changes. 
Again I interpolate, who does the considering? An organisation that is not part of the society and not subject to the social control of the society or a political institution such as this one which is part of the society. The report continues: 
The need for constant review involves a necessity for the person carrying out that task to have access to the fullest information and advice about an ever-changing scene. 
He then goes on, and I must say I disagree with this statement by  Mr Justice  Hope: 
The person having that access is the DG, and it is his responsibility to determine the criteria his organization should apply. 
I would have thought that the case the judge put forward argued to the contrary. Perhaps it might be taken that we might have a Director-General who has a comparatively short term and when a new one comes in he too is better able to reflect changing community views outside. In paragraph 268 he states: 
But, in making security assessments, the DG is concerned with human beings, who are so infinitely various in all respects that a rigid system of criteria to establish loyalty and reliability, allowing no exceptions, must be unjust. 
I now move forward to paragraph 270. It states: 
It has been said that in security cases the nation must be given the benefit of any doubt. 
I am sure that a number of honourable members would agree with that. 
This is language derived from an adversary system where the evidence of one side has to be weighed against evidence the other side puts forward. 
Paragraph 271 states: 
The system of vetting, whether by ASIO or by a review tribunal, is an inquisitorial procedure rather than an adversary procedure, and requires a flexibility of investigation and judgement which would deny the general application of such a rule. It may well be appropriate to a case where access to the nation's closest secrets is being considered; it may not be appropriate in a case of less vital secrets. These are only examples, and are not intended to indicate the areas for the application or non-application of such a rule. The criteria must be formulated or applied in a way that safeguards the interests of the nation yet at the same time satisfies the requirements of humanity and legitimate interests of the citizens of a free society. 
I think that we, as the representatives of society, ought to be prepared to stand up for society as against the institution which says: 'No, we have divorced ourselves from society. We operate in ways that are not subject to scrutiny and we do not intend to submit ourselves to scrutiny '. 
This is a critical issue, an issue above party politics. I would like, for a few moments, to divorce myself from taking a completely partisan point of view as a member of the Labor Party. Despite the vicissitudes of South Australia last week- that does not matter; I can use the case hypothetically- if the boot is on the other foot and we are sitting on the Government side after the next federal election, I would take exactly the same position. I think it would be outrageous if the Leader of the Opposition of that day were not involved in discussions or if his views were not taken into account. I do not say that because I am a member of the Opposition and honourable members opposite are members of the Government. I would take exactly the same position if I were on the Government side. 
I believe this issue is so important because it involves raising the question of how far this Parliament is prepared to pass a self-denying ordinance against itself; to limit its own power and to say: 'Here is an area that we will not move into. We will leave it to the professionals behind their own barbed wire fence'. No doubt it will be put that this matter involves a question of trust. I must say my prejudice is to put rather more trust in this organisation about which I know something rather than put trust in that unknown organisation about which, for a variety of reasons, I am permitted to know virtually nothing. What little I do know does not impress me as to its seriousness or competence. The question we need to debate with ourselves and with our own consciences is this: Are we prepared to trust open political processes, and trust that those open political processes will ultimately reach correct conclusions about this society, or are we only prepared to trust unseen, uncheckable and unverifiable operations conducted behind closed doors, behind a screen? Are we prepared to say that if we open that door, and if we let the light in, suddenly that organisation will collapse too. 
-Or even if we turn the lights on, to coin a phrase. This is blind faith indeed. It is sufficient reason to overturn accepted norms as to the security of mail, the security of telephones and other elements that we take for granted in private life because the secrecy experts have decided that it is necessary that, for reasons of State it has to be and we simply have to accept it; ASIO has its reasons and they must not be questioned? All over the world there are secret service organisations- the Central Intelligence Agency, the KGB, UBDA and other organisations- which all say exactly the same thing. 'What we are doing must not be questioned'. They are exempt from any form of democratic scrutiny. Except for my religious beliefs, on which I have to make an exception, I am not prepared to accept on trust what I cannot see, what I cannot test and what I cannot verify. As I say, I make an exception in the case of the deity; I am not prepared to make an exception in the case of ASIO. I do not believe it is possessed of infallible judgment. I refuse to hand over my judgment, finite though it is, and the collective judgment of this Parliament, finite and imperfect as it is, to another organisation made up of human beings, even if it claims to be perfect and even if it says that the reasons that it operates in such a way are essential for national security. 
I think this is a desperately serious issue. I hope that the House will give very serious consideration to the proposition that was put so ably by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I hope that honourable members will be prepared to cross the floor on what is clearly an issue of conscience. If we do believe in the democratic system- we all know it has been under very great threat in recent years- I hope we will not do something that weakens the strength of democratic institutions by our own act. I ask the House to support the motion moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Did the trustees of the H. V. Evatt Memorial Trust apply to the Treasury to allow tax deductibility for donations on the same basis as they are available for donations to the R. G. Menzies Memorial Trust? Has a reply been given? If not, why not? Will the Treasurer give an undertaking that the Evatt Trust will be dealt with in the same way as the Menzies Trust? 
I think that clause 5 is drawn far too broadly. In going through the  Shorter Oxford English Dictionary  and looking at the precise wording of that clause, the words that begin the clause, I find they are far too wide. Clause 5(1) reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, the activities of persons - 
The following words are in parenthesis- other than activities of foreign origin or activities directed against a foreign government - 
That part can be left out for the purposes of the meaning of the clause- that are to be regarded as subversion are - 
The clause then sets out the activities in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). The point about the definition of the word 'regarded' is that it contains an absolutely and totally subjective judgment. The clause does not say that those things are ' or 'are to be defined as subversive '; it states that they 'are to be regarded as'. What is troubling about this dragnet definition of the word subversion' and what makes it different from the definition of 'arson', 'theft', 'rape' or any other kind of offence is that all those offences have an objective element in them. In the case of arson something has to be burned down. One cannot say: 'Look, notionally, cognitively, I am going to regard that as a matter of arson. Of course, nothing has burned down but I choose to regard it as so'. 
The  Shorter Oxford English Dictionary  has an enormously long definition of the word 'regard'. I will not inflict the whole of that definition on the Committee, but the essential sections of it are: To take notice of; to pay attention to; to give heed to. Synonyms for 'regard' are: Repute, account, or estimation. We are not even saying that subversion consists of a particular matter. The definition simply refers to activities which are to be regarded subjectively, in somebody else's judgment, as subversion. That is far from saying that it is subversion, that it is to be defined as a particular offence. The clause goes on to state in paragraph (a):  activities that involve ... or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to . . . 
The point again is that that puts in an extremely subjective judgment, because the word 'ultimately' might mean 100 years, 150 years or 200 years, and that could lead to such an extraordinarily cautious or repressive view being taken of what is legitimate or illegitimate behaviour that we will find ASIO's powers being extended in a way which I think is quite objectionable in a democratic community like ours. 
Again, I applaud the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Consider the insertion of the word 'unlawful' at the beginning of paragraph (b), which reads:  activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force . . . 
At least by inserting the word 'unlawful' there we have an objective test rather than purely a subjective test. Paragraph (c) of the clause talks about activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons. Not one of us would not like to see a reduction in the amount of hatred in the community. I have very grave doubts about whether one can eliminate hatred by legislation, as much as one might like to do that. I think that is a futile kind of exercise. 
I want to take up the point made by the now absent honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  I think that he completely misread the clause. Clause 5 ( 1 ) (a) is capable of being read in several ways. It can be read narrowly, which is the way he chose to read it, that is that before the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation regards activity as subversive there were to be three elements. The first was activities which were deemed to have a likely result; the second was violence; and the third was the purpose of overthrowing a constitutional government. It is also possible to read that same clause, with its preamble, in a broad way. That broad way can be read to encompass activities that are 'likely ultimately' to 'involve or lead to the use of force ... by others'. Now that 'ultimate' and the 'use of force . . . by others' brings us to a situation that must be fresh in the minds of many honourable members. 
We can take the case of the recent Brisbane street marches. They have involved the use of force- the use of force by others. In this case the others were the Queensland police. One could secure the opinion- and it would be entirely subjective, I remind the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)-  of the Premier of Queensland. What if we had asked him his opinion, subjectively, or  Mr Russell  Hinze or  Mr Charles  Porter, other distinguished ministers in Queensland? What if we had asked this question: 'Do these street marches constitute a threat to the established constitutional government of Queensland?' I have little doubt they would have said: 'Yes'. Nobody knows that better than the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  A coach and horses can be driven between the narrow definition which was put up by the honourable member for Dundas and the broad definition which is just as fair and can be just as reasonably read into the Act. 
This clause constitutes a very bad double. First of all, the context in which this clause appears is that the activities of ASIO are to be exempt from scrutiny. The other leg of the double is that dragnet powers are provided. When honourable members are dealing with this situation I wish that they would give a specific example in an Australian context of what they would regard as subversive activity. If they could give just one example of a subversive activity - 
-I look forward to hearing the honourable member for North Sydney, as I always do. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  wonder whether the honourable member for Lalor could explain to the Chair how the removal of the word 'ultimately' will affect the sort of argument he is putting forward. It seems to be what the discussion is about. 
-Yes. The question of ultimately' is that it can be argued that it gives ASIO a dragnet power. I could say to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  if he does not object to the example: ' We are scrutinising your activities'. He says: 'But I did not intend any harm or violence '. The answer then is to say: Yes, but you perhaps could not foresee what the ultimate effect of it was'. He says: 'What do you mean by ultimate?' I say: 'Of course, it could have an ultimate effect 10, 15 or 25 years in the future'. He says: 'I did not know that'. I say: Yes, but we have the power to deal with what we believe is ultimately going to happen '. 
-All right, 'ultimately likely' to happen in the subjective judgment of somebody. I would not mind accepting the judgment of the present Director-General of security as to how that might be read, or the judgment of  Mr Justice  Hope or somebody like that. But if, by some extraordinary act, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  were appointed the next Director-General of ASIO - 
-I am not so sure it would be such a wonderful choice although he could hardly do worse than he is doing now. But nevertheless one would be very apprehensive about his definition of what 'ultimately' might be. I think it has a dragnet effect.  Mr Chairman,  there was some discussion before you came in. I think that for the purpose of this argument you would agree that the words of preamble in clause 5(1) have to be read concurrently with clause 5(l)(a)- We have been given no specific example of the kind of subversion which might legitimately be regarded as being within ASIO's field. The examples that have been quoted before, such as urban terrorism in Italy, the Sudetenland in 1938, the Profumo case in Britain and other cases, are very remote from the Australian experience. I think we have a very homogenous society on a whole number of social issues but not on economic issues, perhaps. We would all be in the debt of the Government if somebody could provide a specific example or two of what ASIO is going to fight against. 
Another problem is that we know so little about ASIO's track record. Since 1949 ASIO has produced virtually a nil return. I would like somebody on the other side of this chamber to give us one example of one ASIO triumph, a single ASIO success since 1949.I think it is no accident that the members of ASIO are known as spooks' because essentially they are ghost hunters pursuing paranoid nightmare fears. Centuries ago people were readily persuaded that witches really existed and the name 'witchhunt' has a pejorative significance which has a deeply rooted historical origin. We know that members of ASIO have had enormous success in picking targets such as school cadets for example. They are very good there. They have been pretty good in surveilling street marches. But how do they operate in the big league? 
I remember something that a former  President  of the United States, Lyndon Johnson, said about some of the Kennedy camp followers. He said 'They could not pour' something or other, which escapes me at the moment, 'out of a boot, even with the instructions printed on the heel '. I think that is a fair description of ASIO. It seems to be an absolutely incompetent organisation from what we can learn about it. If in fact ASIO has succeeded in saving this country from subversion and revolution in the last 30 years then somebody on the other side ought to be able to get up and timidly squeak out some evidence. I hope the honourable member for North Sydney will take up that opportunity. 
I also will try not to take the full 10 minutes which I have at my disposal. I agree that at first glance there is a kind of 'motherhood' element in this particular sub-clause. But if we are to ask the questions that are implicit in the clause as it is drafted, we have to ask first of all: What is to be regarded as subversion'? Sub-clause (b) states that it relates, among other things, to 'activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance of the Defence Force'. We then go further and ask whether such activities have to be unlawful. The answer is no, they may be perfectly lawful. But they are still subversive, whether lawful or unlawful. 
I must admit that it is harder to think in this case, where something relates specifically to the Defence Force. At least this has the merit of involving a specific identifiable group of people at the other end who have to be subverted. That makes it much more specific. In one way this subclause is not quite so vague as sub-clause (a). But then we see that the activities to be covered are not just unlawful activities, about which we might very well have consensus in the House, but activities which are unlawful- presumably- and also activities which are perfectly lawful. Some other existing Acts may need to be broadened. Perhaps some of the state crimes Acts or some defence Acts need to be broadened. But let us examine a very well informed criticism of the Defence Force. Supposing we take the criticisms expressed in another place by  Senator Hamer,  for example, about the ramshackle nature of our defence operation and how ineffectual it is. If those words were uttered outside the Parliament- they were certainly trenchantly critical and were very deeply resented, as we all remember, by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)-  would that be regarded as an activity which hinders or interferes with the performance of the Defence Force? 
-That is absolutely a matter of opinion. In this case I would be prepared to accept the opinion of the honourable member for Holt because in many ways he is an old-fashioned liberal. I think his judgment could be relied upon more than the judgments of some of the more rabid members of the Liberal Party, not to mention the members of the National Country Party. If we want to equate subversion with unlawful activity, that is all right. But if we are talking about general activities, I am concerned about how broad the dragnet can become by the elimination of a single word. We are talking about onus on proof- about whether it should be taken for granted that the activities of ordinary citizens are to be regarded as legal unless there is some prescription to the contrary, or whether we say: 'Oh no, we are going to work on the basis that the powers to be conferred on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation are to be carried out perfectly legally; it is to have the broadest possible range of powers. We believe that if there is to be any infringement on liberty, it must be on the liberty of the subject and not on the liberty of the organisation.' I think that is an absolutely unacceptable dichotomy. 
Progress reported. 
-Let me just go through the point about the word 'unlawful ' again, to show the absolute hollowness of the argument that is put forward. We might be able to solve the problem by putting in a compromise wording. Let us suppose that we changed the wording slightly- absolutely in accord with what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  said. Let us suppose that we changed clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) to say that things to be 'regarded as subversion' include 'lawful or unlawful activities'. If we say 'lawful or unlawful activities' the real hollowness of the argument comes through because what is being said is simply that activities that are defined as perfectly lawful are still to be deemed to be subversive. When it is put in that way, 1 do not think that there is anyone on the Government side who would accept that wording; Government members would say: 'No; we do not want to find ourselves committed in a statute to saying that lawful activity is subversive too'. But that is the logic of it. 
-1 find that suggestion about 'permitted' very objectionable because very often there is a basic assumption that civil liberties in Australia is what is left over after the police, Customs, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and various other authorities have had their go. They say to the ordinary citizen: 'What is left over is yours. That is what you are permitted to do'. I do not believe that there is a single Government member here who would accept an amendment which said that clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) would begin with the words 'lawful or unlawful activities'. If those words were adopted it would reveal the absolute hollowness of what is being done; it would reveal just how wide the dragnet is being cast. 
I do not think for a minute that some honourable members opposite have thought this thing through seriously. They have taken it for granted that there has to be an organisation which will protect society and that all the Government has to do is to say that that organisation has its own reasons. One of the most horrifying remarks that I have heard- it is horrifying because of its implications- came from the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  this afternoon. I am sure that he did not think it through.  His  argument was: If people have nothing to be ashamed of, what have they to be frightened of if ASIO is surveilling their activities? We could come to the stage where we accept that it is a perfectly normal and routine thing, say, for telephones to be tapped. I remember going to a public meeting in Auckland, New Zealand in 1977 on this issue and being horrified. One fellow got up and said: ' I have strong evidence that my telephone is being tapped; but I do not mind, because I have nothing to hide. Why should anyone in this society be worried if his telephone is tapped, if the people all have clean consciences?' Once we accept that basic premise and say 'Yes, it is all right if they tap our telephone and it is all right if they intercept our mail. We all have clean consciences. They can do what they like', it means immediately that the rights of the private citizen are annihilated. 
-No. I am simply saying that once we accept it - 
-I am glad to hear the honourable member say that. I am glad to see an element of spirit. 
-I am aware of that. But, once the dragnet has been cast so wide that it encompasses unlawful and lawful activities and the Government says 'They are to be regarded as part of the process of surveillance', that is the first step towards some kind of police state where the rights of the citizen are qualified and where the rights of the security organisation are unlimited; where the Parliament keeps putting restraints on itself and keeps giving carte blanche to somebody else. What this debate is all about is that there are honourable members in this chamber who say of themselves: 'We cannot be trusted with power; they can. We do not mind limiting our power, but we will give all the more power to them because their judgment is better than our judgment'. What sort of a democratic parliamentary institution are we if we really are abdicating our rights and saying to somebody else: 'You take them. You go away with them. You can be trusted with them; we cannot'? 
-In 1 900 Albert Ellis of the Pacific Islands Company persuaded two Banabans to place their marks on a paper conceding to the company sole rights to Ocean Island- Banaba- phosphate for 999 years for the payment of 50 per annum. He raised the Union Jack, and Banaba was annexed to the Empire. Such was the inspiration of membership of the Empire that in 1916 all 500 Banabans donated 10,000 worth of copra to the war effort. Britain repaid this by making Banaba part of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands colony, without informing or consulting the people. In 1927 Australia and New Zealand joined with Britain in the British Phosphate Commission and asked the Banabans for more land to mine for phosphate, but the Banabans refused. In 1 928 the colonial administration forced the signing of leases on the threat that the land would be taken anyway for the empire, and their villages destroyed. Continued refusal led to the land being compulsorily purchased by the colony they did not ask to join. 
Amazingly the Banabans loyally donated 512,500 to British war funds in 1940. This was rewarded by the British abandoning them to the Japanese, who deponed the majority as slave labour, and shot the 150 remaining, except for one survivor. In 1 945, they asked to be allowed to return to their home, but were told this was impossible because of war damage, and were removed 1,400 miles away to Rabi in the Fiji islands. Within weeks of their arrival on Rabi, the BPC was recruiting Gilbertese to work on the phosphate and providing them with accommodation. In 1947 loyalty prompted the Banabans on Rabi to donate 500 to each of the cities of Plymouth and Portsmouth for post-war reconstruction, while Britain, through its Western Pacific High Commission, instructed the Banaban adviser, who was paid by the Banabans, not to advise them on the sale of the remaining three-fifths of their phosphate land. Only in 1965 did they realise they had been cheated, and they expelled the British colonial service officer appointed to Rabi, who was known as the Banaban adviser. In 1967 they sent a mission to London, where the Minister asked them to sign a minute accepting 80,000 as an ex gratia payment in consideration of the effects of phosphate mining since 1900. At long last they refused on legal advice. In 1975 their case went to court. They won against the BPC but not against the Crown. The judge in his judgment described the behaviour of colonial government as outrageous and bullying. Nonetheless the damages awarded were a trifling 9,000. 
The total revenue from Banaban phosphates which will have been used by the end of mining this year to meet Britain's obligations in the Gilbert Islands colony is 62m and the subsidies over the years to Australian and New Zealand farmers a further  17.5m. The Banabans have been offered $A10m by the British Government and $A 1.25 m by the British Phosphate Commission provided they take no more legal action, but this has been made conditional on the money being tied up in a trust fund, which they do not want. But Britain may waive this condition. This would leave only the moral and political issues to be resolved. At present, of course, Britain is still continuing with the process that it has adopted of forcing the Banabans to accept becoming part of the newly independent Republic of Kiribati, which covers the Gilbert and Ellice Islands. As the Banabans will for some time be in the unique situation of having two homelands 1 ,400 miles apart- Banaba and Rabi- the course which would recognise the uniqueness of their case would be to allow for the separation of Ocean Island from the Gilbert group, leaving the Banabans to negotiate a form of association with Fiji, covering the relationships of the two islands. It seems sensible that they should have the same defence force and an external affairs minister in Suva. 
Australia has been the primary beneficiary of the exploitation of the Banabans. I think it is one of the most disgraceful, most horrifying stories. Australia and New Zealand have benefited far more than Great Britain from the exploitation, despoliation and destruction of these islands. I believe that we have a strong moral imperative to do something and to make sure that the compensation is handed over and that the compensation is more generous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) How many persons are in the diplomatic courier service. 
How many missions have a courier on their staff. 
What is the cost of the service. 
What are the duties of couriers. 
What classes of documents are sent by courier. 
What is an example of an average work pattern for a courier (e.g. number and length of journeys undertaken each month). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) Who is the Director of the International Year of the Child Unit in the Department of Social Security. 
When was he/she appointed and what are the terms and conditions of employment including salary. 
How was he/she appointed and by whom. 
Was the position advertised; if so, where. 
What are his/her qualifications and previous work experience. 
What overseas travel to date has been undertaken by the Director, giving exact dates, reasons for travel and duties undertaken abroad. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 1 19 concerning UNESCO conventions  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 969). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Which international conventions have been adopted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
) In relation to each convention on what date (a) was it adopted, (b) did it enter into force and (c) did Australia become a party to it. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 126 concerning agreements for scientific and technical cooperation(Hansard, 8 March 1978, page 570 and 20 March 1979, page 930). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 129 concerning agreements for the reciprocal provision of medical and hospital care  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 571 ). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
How many quota visits were provided by his Department or other departments for attendance at UNESCO during 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Will he consult with appropriate Austraiian Ministers and with the Government of Malta to see if Australia could provide large numbers of appropriate trees for planting in Malta as a tangible gesture of goodwill which could be of great benefit to that largely treeless island. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I second- I am sorry, I do not actually second but I speak in support - 
-I would second, third, fourth or fifth it if I had the opportunity. I support the amendment in regard to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  condemning the policies of the Fraser Government since its election in 1975. I want to talk, as I have quite often in this House, about the problems of increasing unemployment in this country. I believe one of the great problems we as a parliament face is that we lack the opportunity really to examine the long-term implications of what we will do. Quite often we find in political life that the shortterm consideration is paramount and the longterm consideration is ignored. This is true whether we deal with political parties, the parliamentary process, trade unions or business. Very often it is the short-term consideration rather than the long-term consideration which tends to dominate. Occasionally we hear from the Government some kind of projection as to what it thinks future employment will be in this country. 
I wish to draw attention for a few minutes this afternoon and again tonight to a working paper on a project that has been put out by the IMPACT research centre through the Industries Assistance Commission. It is called: 'The SNAPSHOT Model: underlying theory and an application to the study of the implications of technical change in Australia to 1 990 '. It is written by P. B. Dixon of La Trobe University and D. P. Vincent of IAC. The IMPACT project is a Commonwealth Government inter-agency project in co-operation with the University of Melbourne to facilitate the analysis of the impact of economic, demographic and social changes on the structure of the Australian economy. The IMPACT research centre is located at the Industries Assistance Commission in Melbourne. A draft preliminary working paper, the title of which I mentioned previously, was published in August 1979. The SNAPSHOT model is an attempt 'to simply ask what the economy will look like at a particular point of time in the future '. The chosen date is 1990-91 and comparison is made with the base year of 1 970-7 1 . The authors set out to compare two models of the Australian economy between 1971-72 and 1990-91. One model adopts technical progress, which is not defined, for 19 years, and the other foregoes technical progress. As the authors say on page 24: 
The comparison between our two simulations provides a basis for discussing some of the implications of technical progress. Put in frankly emotive terms, the comparison is between the long-term prospects for what we will call an innovative economy and those for what we will call a Luddite economy. 
The paper has been praised by Professor Alan A. Powell of Melbourne University in another IMPACT paper entitled 'Employment Prospects for Keynes' Grandchildren: Some Popular Fallacies'. The most enthusiastic endorsement has been from  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, the Economic Editor of the  Australian Financial Review,  writing in both the  Financial Review  and the  National Times.  In fact,  Mr McGuinness  's enthusiasm is of such an order that he claims rather more for the SNAPSHOT paper than the authors would claim themselves. A  Financial Review  editorial headed 'Not 1984, but 1990', which was published on 12 September, roundly declares that: 
In an economy with rapid technological change major industries, far from declining, expand substantially. That means that Ludditism would destroy more jobs than technological advance. 
I think it is necessary to say that this does not appear in the SNAPSHOT paper or in Professor Powell's paper; at least if it does, I cannot find it. I asked  Mr McGuinness  by telegram if he could confirm where the material came from. I checked Table 4.3 which he named in his reply, only to find that the material was not there. The paper raises some anxieties. For example, the authors use the terms 'technical change' and 'technology' as if they were identical. 'Technical' is a far more narrow and specific term than is 'technological '. For example, conversions from direct current to alternating current, from imperial measurement to metric or from diesel to liquefied petroleum gas could probably be regarded as technical; technological is far broader, involving the sum of knowledge of the means and methods of producing goods and services; for example, conversion from fossil fuels to atomic power. The extreme sophistication of the SNAPSHOT paper's economic methodology, which makes whole pages completely incomprehensible to the non-mathematician- a factor which makes its adoption more likely at policy making levels- conceals the apparent naivete of its conclusions. 
The author's computer may have been told things that are withheld from the reader, but I am unable to find even a single sentence in a 58-page paper to explain what elements of technical progress are considered; that is, precisely what type of technical or technological scenario is anticipated. The comparison between an innovative economy' and a 'Luddite economy' suggests the language of advocacy rather than an objective description. In any case, where do we find the Luddite economy which is described as foregoing technical progress for 1 9 years, whatever that means? We are already eight years in from 1970-71. Does this mean that the Luddite economy retains the 1970-71 technology- that is, pre-microchip technology- but fails to recognise changes that have already been introduced to 1979-80? If so, the description is misleading. But there is growing evidence that the paper is of significant influence in shaping some elements of government policy. It might be more relevant to compare the impact of technology or technical change if, firstly, the rate of change from 1971-72 to 1979-80 continues unchanged until 1990-91; or, secondly, if the projected rates of change are accelerated between 1979-80 and 1990-91. 
After the use of 'frankly emotive terms' on page 24 of the IMPACT document, it comes as a profound anti-climax to read on page 52 that: 
The overwhelming impression from Table 4.6 is that the occupational composition of the work force ... in 1990-91 is unlikely to be radically different from that in 1 97 1-72 and that it will be determined largely independently of technical change. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was telling a spellbound House about the IMPACT project sponsored by the. Australian Government, in collaboration with Melbourne University, under the auspices of the Industries Assistance Commission, and in particular about its recently published paper called The SNAPSHOT Model'-it is not a novel-by P. B. Dixon and D. P. Vincent. SNAPSHOT uses computerised projections in an attempt to describe what Australia's economy will be like in the year 1990-91. The authors examine two different scenarios: One rejects all technological change, which they call the 'Luddite economy', and the other adopts all technological change, which they call the 'innovative economy'. The authors make no apology for using what they call frankly emotive terms' to describe these two scenarios. The reason that I put so much stress on the SNAPSHOT report is that it is the only document in existence prepared under government funding which even attempts to estimate the extent of future technological unemployment. 
As I shall show, the figures in the survey are quite alarming. Nevertheless, enthusiasts for technological determinism among our leading financial journalists read the SNAPSHOT paper as a ringing endorsement of vast employment expansion under high technology. This is simply not the case. I can, however, make one very confident prediction, and that is that not one word of my speech will be reported in the  Australian Financial Review,  the  National Times,  the  Bulletin,  the  Age,  the  Canberra Times  or the  Australian.  I want to describe precisely what it is that the SNAPSHOT paper describes. As I said before the suspension of the sitting, there was a concession by the authors that the overwhelming impression from table 4.6, which later I will ask to be incorporated in  Hansard,  is that the occupational composition of the work force in 1990-91 is unlikely to be radically different from that in 1971-72 and that it will be determined largely independently of technical change. 
This, of course, raises the question: If all the technical change will produce no change in employment then why did they use the 'frankly emotive terms' with which they describe the two scenarios? In fact, there is a yawning gap in the SNAPSHOT paper which is not examined, let alone filled in. Table 4.1 on page 28 of the paper is based on an assumption from page 27 that a growth in annual productivity from 1971-72 to 1990-91 of 2 per cent per annum would lead to a decline in final demand for labour of 32 per cent. This implies an annual growth rate of 1.69 per cent- that is to say, 32 over. 19. Why a figure of 19 multiplied by 2 per cent- that is to say, 38 per cent- is not used, is not explained. The table suggests that there will be a fall in labour requirements by 1990-91 of 32 per cent- that is to say, the 100 per cent minus 32 per cent which equals 68 per cent. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  table 4.1 headed 'Labour Requirements by Occupation to Deliver a Fixed Vector of Final Demands Assuming 1971-72 and 1990-91 Techniques.' 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909254_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Table 4.2 says that the work force in 1990-91 under the 'innovative economy' or the 'Luddite economy' will be identical- 7.9 million. This is based on assuming that 49 per cent of the total estimated population in 1990-91 will be of work force age and offering for work. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the term work force does not mean the actual number of people in work. It means the number of people who are of work force age and who are offering for work, full time or part time. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  Table 4.2 headed 'Projections of GDP and Other Macro Variables'. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="115131197909254_42_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. In the entire SNAPSHOT paper there is not a single sentence which discusses employment rates, the impact of technological unemployment or attempts to identify where new jobs will be found. In fact, Table 4.6 takes a baffling line. It predicts that the occupational shares- that is to say, proportions- in the work force will barely change while forgetting that in Table 4.1 a massive fall in absolute numbers has been predicted. For the last time I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  Table 4.6 headed 'Occupational Shares in the Work Force'. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909254_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This discrepancy seems to have escaped the notice of the authors and of some of the financial journalists who have been examining the paper. The point is that Table 4. 1 indicates that labour requirements, using 1971-72 techniques, would by 1990-91 amount to only 68 per cent- a total of 3,58I,000-of the then work force. That would, of course, represent a shortfall of the order of 4.3 million. Somehow it is airily assumed that new jobs will be created although Table 4.6 makes it quite clear that it is anticipated that the variations between the proportions of people in the work force will be of a very small order. The statement on page 52 of the paper, that the occupational composition of the work force is unlikely to be radically different in 1990-91, is correct if it refers to relativities- that is to say, percentages. But if we refer to absolute numbers there appears to be a shortfall of 4,319,000 jobs-that is to say, 7,900,000 less 3,581,000-to be accounted for. No doubt new jobs will be found, but SNAPSHOT does not suggest where they will be. True, the value of consumption is predicted to fall from $52.6 billion in the innovative economy to $35.8 billion in the Luddite economy, a drop of 32 per cent identical to the predicted fall in labour needs from 1971-72 to 1990-91. But are high consumption and quality of life necessarily identical, although no doubt they are related? SNAPSHOT predicts that, compared to the 'Luddite economy' the 'innovative economy' would produce industry growth rates which were - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That is a pity. I only needed another minute. Could I have that? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Is Australia a member of the British Phosphate Commission; if so, by whom is it represented. 
Is it a fact that an offer was made to the Banaban leaders by way of restitution for the loss of, and damage to, their home on Ocean Island. 
3 ) What was the offer and did it include interest. 
What attitude did Australia take on whether the interest should be paid to the Banabans. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) To which Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions, International Labour Organisation maritime conventions and Brussels conventions has Australia become a Contracting State under the present Government. 
Which conventions still have to be ratified by Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Which International Labour Organisation conventions has Australia ratified under the present Government. 
) Which International Labour Organisation conventions other than maritime conventions have still to be ratified by Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
Is it a fact that immigration entry cards state that answers to questions must be given in the English language. 
It is also a fact that the questions asked in almost all cases require a specific answer such as name, place of birth, passport number, nationality in which the actual language used for answers is virtually irrelevant. 
Do any other countries insist that immigrant entry cards (or their equivalent) be answered in a particular language, i.e. do the French insist that answers be given in French, or the Italians in Italian. 
Since Australia is a multi-cultural nation, is the insistence on using the English language only now rather anachronistic, irrelevant and an example of timorous Ockerdom. 
Will he give consideration to dropping the requirement that forms be completed in the English language. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan, July 1978; if so, what action has been taken on each of the Delegation's 7 recommendations, in particular recommendation 3 to the effect that the Australian Government should inquire whether it would be possible for an exhibition of Jomon and Yayoi pieces from the Tokyo National Museum collection to be brought to Australia for exhibition purposes. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
What representation does his Department have in: 
Palermo, (b) Messina, (c) Catania, or (d) any other city in Sicily. 
I really do not want to take up much of my five minutes in replying to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  because the point is almost too trivial to make. I freely concede that  Mr Inchehara  was appointed originally by the then Minister, Moss Cass, of the Labor Party. I concede also that I was not aware at the time that I made the statement that he had already been appointed by Moss Cass. But I do not think the - 
-By the honourable member for Maribyrnong. I would invite honourable members not to take out of context what I said but to look at page 1274 of  Hansard.  It is all written there. What I said quite clearly was that a number of members of the national Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council and the State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council were very prominent members of the Liberal Party. This has been described as an unmerciful attack. It may be regarded as detrimental to somebody's character to say that they are members of the Liberal Party, and I can quite understand if honourable members opposite are sensitive about it, but all I said was that they happened to be prominent. I referred to  Mr Inchehara  and everything I said about him was correct. I then said that there were a number of other politically safe appointees on these councils. In the context in which I spoke I would have thought, with the legal training that the honourable member for St George has had, that it would have been understood even by him. It was simply this, that if one is arguing for an ethnic radio media service which has no political content at all in the sense that issues are not argued out- in other words, if what one is looking for, as is said by the Galbally report, is merely a kind of 'minestrone' of very safe items, a bit of travelogue here and a bit of folk singing there, but where one does not engage in any serious discussion of the actual issues and the political context in which migrants live- one creates a situation which is 'politically safe'. It is politically inert. It does not - 
-I am not wriggling on the hook. That is exactly the argument that I put. At the time the honourable member for St George did not understand it and I think that he should be given another opportunity to understand it. If one has people who politically are complete neuters on the subject, it is quite obvious that one will have a nil return, as it were, because it would not permit a wide range of differing views. It is quite clear that in the period when the Labor Party was in power a mixture of people were appointed. There were people who were committed politically to the left and there were people who were committed politically to the right. There is nothing wrong with that. 
We had some strange appointments such as that of  Sir John  Kerr, as my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has pointed out. That indicates that one had a context in which a variety of points of view could be put. One has the classic example which I think is illustrated in the contrast between, say, radio stations 3EA and 3ZZ in Melbourne. Station 3ZZ was composed of people who had a variety of political points of view which they expressed very fiercely. The result was that 3ZZ was politically a controversial station in which a variety of controversial points of view were put. On the other hand, one would describe 3EA, I think not unfairly, as being a 'politically safe' station. It is a 'politically safe' station because there are no controversies in it. As the Galbally report itself said, it has a series of 'minestrone' programs which certainly provide a little bit of ethnic culture here and there but do not provide any comprehensive argument, any comprehensive debate in which different points of view can be put. A parliament comprised of political neuters, which no doubt many honourable members on the government side would like, and in which only one point of view was put and there were a whole number of people who were absolutely safe, sitting round without an idea in their heads- and this is no doubt what honourable members opposite would likewould not be part of the democratic community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I remind the House of the terms of the motion - 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-This is a very bad Bill- 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) Can he say what was the annual per capita consumption of tobacco in (a) Australia, (b) Great Britain, (c) the United States of America, (d) France and (e) Italy in each of the last 10 years. 
If so, in what years for each of these countries was direct television advertising of tobacco products ended. 
What effect has the cessation of television advertising had on the per capita consumption of tobacco. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
What are the ruling rates of interest for housing society investors and borrowers and bank housing loan rates in (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States of America and (d) the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
Which Embassies, Consulates-General and Consulates in North, Central or South America are under the financial jurisdiction of his Department's representative in Washington. 
What are the advantages of such a system of financial control. 
How does the system operate in practice, eg what minimum sums are referred to Washington. 
Have representations been made to allow Australian diplomatic posts to conduct their financial operations on an imprest system as in South East Asia; if so, what consideration has been given to these representations. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Which States have now agreed to the ratification of International Labour Organisation Conventions No. 64- Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers), 1939; No. 65- Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers), 1939; No. 104- Abolition of Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers), 1955; and No. 107- Indigenous and Tribal Populations, 1957. 
) What steps are being taken to secure the agreement of those States which have not agreed in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Further to the Minister's answer to question No. 4383 on the International Year of the Child sand castle competition  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 981), was the decision to participate submitted to the Minister for approval. 
Was the escort referred to in part (7) of the Minister's answer as having accompanied the 6 selected contestants an employee of the Depanment of Social Security; if so, what was the person's name. 
Were Commonwealth public servants and/or diplomatic personnel used in a supervisory capacity for the competition; if so, who were they and how much time was involved. 
Has the cost of the services of Commonwealth employees and the cost of trans-Pacific telephone calls been taken into account in calculating the total cost to the Australian Government of $950 involved in the Australian participation. 
-Let us get back to the question of aid, and let us get back to the sheer dimension of the tragedy in Kampuchea. It is very difficult to know just what the total population of Kampuchea was in the 1960s. Some authorities say seven million people and others eight million. It is very difficult to calculate precisely how many people were killed during the Pol Pot regime, but it seems a fair estimate that the equivalent of the entire population of Melbourne was wiped out between 1970 and 1975. It seems that the number of people who are faced with starvation, crop failure and the ecological and environmental destruction of the last few years is of the order of 2,500,000, at a minimum. That figure is also equivalent to the population of Melbourne. 
Let us do a little simple arithmetic in regard to the volume of food necessary to stave off that starvation. I have been doing some rough calculations. The estimates that have been put up so far grossly underestimate the extent of the problem. If there are 2,500,000 people facing starvation, and if we assume an average food intake of 500 grams for the entire day- it means that Kampuchea needs an extra 1,250 tonnes of food per day. Over 365 days, that would amount to 456,250 tonnes. The Australian Government has offered 3,500 tonnes, and the Opposition wishes it were more. Although at first blush it sounds a very significant contribution, 3,500 tonnes would provide sustenance for only 2.8 days. 
It is true that not many other countries are contributing. Australia's record is better than that of many other countries, but then we also have to recognise that we bear a heavy moral responsibility. The Soviet Union bears a heavy degree of moral responsibility for the recent invasion by Vietnam and that country is supplying food as well. This is an international problem. We cannot tackle it by ourselves, every nation has to be in it. There are a number of practical suggestions that I want to make to the Government. The first suggestion I have is that the Commonwealth Government, as a matter of urgency should send a group of members of parliament to Kampuchea to see the situation for themselves. If we were able to give first hand reports to the Parliament and if we could then give those reports to the nation it might at last make the inhabitants of this lucky country able to grasp the full extent of the horror which is Kampuchea. 
When the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  proposed his matter of public importance he said that we were all aware of the extent of the tragedy because we had all read about it in the newspapers. I am sure that some members of this Parliament have not read of the situation in sufficient detail, and I am sure that there are millions of people within the community who have not read about and who do not comprehend the extent of the tragedy, for obvious reasons. The situation is of a dimension that is utterly remote from our own experience, and because it is utterly remote from our own experience it is very difficult for people to understand it. We reject it psychologically; we cannot absorb it because it is too far away from our experience. 
Secondly- this is a very rare occasion when I support the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)-  we ought to be doing much more to provide technical aid. Australia has sophisticated technological skills which we ought to be sharing. Thirdly, we must provide more food and much more in medical supplies. 
I point out the extent of the West's degree of moral responsibility for the physical destruction of Indo-China generally. The involvement of the United States in what happened in the early 1970s in working out the 'Kissinger doctrine' is horrifying. We were guilty accessories to doctrine. I point out to honourable members a horrifying remark, quoted in the Watergate Papers, and made by President Nixon to his Chief of Staff, Robert Haldeman, when he said: 
Bob, I want the North Vietnamese to think there is a mad man in the White House and I want them to realise that this mad man has his finger on the nuclear button. That way they will be in Paris negotiating for peace within two weeks. 
In other words, as a means of bringing the war in Vietnam to an end, the decision was made to destroy what they could of Cambodia. Cambodia had no direct role in that action at all, except to the extent that it was used as a supply route for troops from the north. As a nation Cambodia was not directly involved, and everyone knows that. I quote again what William Shawcross said in his book  Sideshow.  He made the comment that the Kissinger doctrine, and the Theory of Expendability assumed that all the world was a chess game in which the small nations were mere pawns to be moved at will, or to be declared expendable, regardless of questions of sovereignty, morality etc., and that the crushing or isolating or starving of these troublesome lands could be accommodated or negotiated in the spirit of detente between the super powers. (Not surprisingly, it is a view shared with enthusiasm by the Kremlin, which is currently attempting to crush 'expendable' Eritrea, without, of course, a murmur from the West.) 
Let us just think for a minute about the kinds of physical conditions that we find in Kampuchea. In John Pilger 's article in the  New Statesman  of 2 1 September 1979 he wrote:  . . the survivors - 
That is, the survivors of the four years of Khmer Rouge terror- now face the real prospect of their extinction. 'We have six months to save three million people, the majority of the population, from starvation and related diseases', said Jacques Beaumont. 
He was the representative of the United Nations Children's Fund. The article continued: 
Six months is the maximum. Eighty-five per cent of the women have stopped menstruating, because they are malnourished and exhausted and, like everybody, they have not recovered from the trauma of the terror. So where is the next generation coming from?' 
Cambodia will be the first 'expendable' nation to die, not because it cannot survive the killing of perhaps a third of its population, but because it cannot sustain the complementary effect: the denial of relief, lt is interesting that those who have led this land to the edge of death share a particular style. They have taken their decisions to bomb and to refuse humanitarian help at a great remove in distance and responsibility from the consequences of their obduracy; not for them the sight of an emaciated child spitting itself to death ! 
We bear a heavy responsibility and I believe that we ought to be putting much more pressure on the United States. The United States expressed a willingness- indeed a passion- to be involved in South East Asia. If it has a passion to be involved in South East Asia, let it be involved in humanitarian work, in doing something to end the de:struction, the death and the dissolution of a nation with a great and a peaceful tradition. 
I agree also with the honourable member for St George in another respect: I do not understand why we are casting our vote in the United Nations in support of recognition of the Pol Pot regime. It is truly one of the most repulsive regimes ever to have been seen on the earth. I agree that there are great difficulties, probably because of the peculiar circumstances of Vietnam's intervention. There is a very real fear that in the next few weeks the beginning of the dry season will lead to resumption of military activity in that area. Tragic though that is, the important thing now is to do what we can to ensure the survival of the Kampuchean people. I also refer to the House the comments of the Oxfam relief worker, Jim Howard, reported in the Melbourne  Age  of 21 September 1979. He had visited a hospital in Phnom Penh on 7 January. He stated: 
Terrible conditions- children in bed in filthy rags dying with starvation- no drugs- no food, 550 beds with 600 patients. Adjoining the hospital a high school now used as a TB hospital with about 250 dying people all so depressing and hopeless. The TB allied to starvation gives the people a Belsen-like appearance. In one ward a boy of 13 was tied down to the bed because he was going insane. 
-The objectionable part of clause 3 is that it converts a flexible situation into a rigid, inflexible situation. In effect, it converts what a commissioner may do and very often does into what he must do. I believe that there will be cases when this will deny substantial justice to any parties. For example, it may lead to undue delay. As my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  pointed out, we do not know what that mysterious word 'consult' means in this context. This is not just a terminological quibble. What is a process of consultation? An unsatisfactory intervening element comes into the whole arbitral process. I could understand if the Government had gone a little further and said that in cases of this nature a commissioner must sit with the presidential member. If it said thatconsideration of whether people would be readily available aside- I could see some sense in the provision. 
There are several elements in a determination. First, there is a cause arising. Then there is the hearing of evidence. Following the hearing of evidence is the determination by the person who has heard the evidence. In this clause a new element is introduced. There is a cause, a hearing of the evidence and, after the hearing of the evidence by A, there is a intervening process of consultation with B. B has not heard the evidence. He may have no clear idea about the specific issue except as it is reported to him by A who has heard the evidence. B is in the peculiar situation then of either saying to A: 'I have not heard the evidence and on the basis of what you have told me I think that you are a whacker who has not understood what it is all about and I do not think that the determination you are to make is right' or saying: 'You have heard the evidence. I have not. I have known you for 54 years. I take it for granted that your judgment is right. I will concur with what you are going to do.' There will then be the absurd situation in which either the presidential member is overturning a conclusion that has been reached on examining the evidence by the man charged with that responsibility or the presidential member will simply be a rubber stamp. He will say: 'I am conscious of what you are doing. I think you are all right and I am simply going to confirm it. ' 
-In that case there is a heavy obligation on voluble Government members like the honourable member for Dundas on the wealth of his experience as an industrial lawyer to tell us precisely what it means and what the word 'consult' refers to. What if there is a difference of opinion? If there is a difference of opinion as a result of consultation, what then happens? Does it mean that in effect the final decision will be taken out of the hands of A, the commissioner who has heard the evidence and gone through the whole process, or will there be a kind of sandwich situation in which there is a compromise between A who has heard the evidence and B who has not heard it? The whole traditional concept of natural justice meant that the parties had an opportunity to be heard, to present evidence and to rebut it before the person making the judgment. But if the ultimate judgment is to be part of a consultative process in which A who has heard the evidence is forced to justify himself before B who has not heard the evidence there will be a complete upsetting of the tradition of natural justice. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  with all respect to his capacity, has made no attempt to address himself to what the process of consultation involves and what will happen if there is a serious disagreement between A and B. 
-There are two points that I want to take up. First of all, I have listened very carefully to what was said by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  especially his reference to the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973. 1 am sorry to advise the Committee that he is wrong. I will read the relevant section to the Committee. I think this is what the Minister was referring to when he said that this clause of the Bill is exactly the same sort of provision that has always obtained in the Public Service arbitration system. Section 15a (3) states: 
The Arbitrator shall, upon request made as provided by the next succeeding sub-section, on the ground that a claim or application, or a matter forming part of or arising out of a claim or application . . . is of such importance that the claim, application or matter should, in the public interest, be dealt with as provided by this section' consult with the  President  as to whether the claim, application or matter should be so dealt with. 
It then provides that the request may be made by the Board, by a Minister or by a relevant organisation, or others under the special circumstances referred to in section 12c of the Act. In other words, consultation is not a precondition to judgment. I agree with what the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  was saying. Of course, consultation occurs constantly as a fact of life. If this is passed there may not be much more consultation; it occurs already. What we are concerned about, is the fact that the use of the language in this clause appears to make consultation a precondition to judgment. This then raises the question of natural justice. In reality, of course consultation does occur, will occur and should occur. 
I direct the Minister's attention to the provision in the Public Service Arbitration Act. That provision contains superior wording. That wording should have been put in the Bill. The Minister clearly thinks that the two provisions are on all fours, but they are not. I believe that the Committee might find the clause presently before it much more acceptable because under that clause at least we know the ground rules on which there will be a consultation. It is made quite clear that consultation has nothing to do with the act of judgment. It is a precondition to how the matter is heard. It is not something that happens after the evidence has been examined and prior to judgment, and that is a very important distinction. 
I think that, as with the preceding clause, the clause before the Committee represents a real limitation on the powers on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to bring about effective justice. I think that the absurdity of this position can be demonstrated by imagining what would happen if a Labor government went to the other extreme. Suppose a Labor government legislated to change this Act to provide that there be an automatic payment for all people out on strike, irrespective of the circumstances. I think there would be a great furore in the community and a claim that that kind of legislation was much too sweeping and much too broad. We say that in the same way, here there is a situation that requires that, whatever the circumstances, no payment can be made when men are out on strike. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  pointed out, some pretty extreme circumstances have occurred. I took part in a legal action where a building was under great structural threat. It was decided to stop the work completely because there was extreme danger of a collapse. A number of legal problems came up about it, especially insurance. But it was agreed that the men could go home and would continue to be paid- and quite rightly so. If they had gone out on strike and said: 'We won't work in the building. It's too dangerous', in my view they would have been absolutely and totally justified in everything that they did, given the circumstances of the case. I am not talking about generalities but about particular sets of circumstances. 
Even though a variety of fair minded people, on and off the Bench would agree that that was the appropriate way to deal with the matter, this legislation would say: 'No, whatever the circumstances, the Commission may not make an order for payment'. That is an extremely negative approach. What it does is to limit the power of the Commission. I suggest that the circumstance in which the Commission would make an order would be comparatively unusual. It would occur, no doubt, where the Commission concluded that management was entirely or, very substantially to blame, and the order to pay would be virtually a penalty. What the Government says in this legislation is: 'No: We don't want to permit a situation where it is possible for the Commission to have the extreme range where it penalises the men on one hand and management on the other'. 'No', the Government says, ' We want a situation where management will not be penalised in any circumstances but where the option is always open for the trade unionists, the workers on the job, to be penalised '. That is very far removed from the concept of natural justice that we were talking about earlier. This is a very extreme limitation on the powers of the Commission. 
I think the timing of the whole legislation and this clause in particular is extremely bad. I think we face a period of potentially very great instability, very great uncertainty and very great sensitivity in industrial relations when the whole nature of employment as we have traditionally known it may be changed- undermined, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, by technological change and similar developments. Changes may occur of a nature which we do not yet fully comprehend. That uncertainty, I believe, is likely to engender fear and will make the task of resolving industrial disputes amicably more difficult than it has been before. 
I do not believe that clause 4 is a helpful move. It will not make the resolution of increasingly complex and sophisticated issues easier. It is likely to make it harder. At the very time when we should be looking for greater co-operation, greater understanding and greater willingness to take the long view, I think that with this clause the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is responding by tossing an industrial incendiary bomb into the arena. This clause has all the elements of confrontation in it. I think it is as reckless and as foolish as it is unnecessary. Is the Government not prepared to allow the commissioners any discretion at all? The Bill is making the commissioners automatons. It denies them the opportunity to say: 'We will make an award in circumstances that we believe appropriate'. What it is really saying is: 'Whatever the circumstances, your hands are tied '. At a time when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ought to be able to operate with greater subtlety and sensitivity, the Government cuts the Commission back to make it no longer a commission for conciliation and arbitration but a commission for confrontation and attrition. 
The story told by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports about the horror of the collapse of the West Gate Bridge in October 1970 is a perfect example of the kind of dispute that could have occurred in which the men would have been 100 per cent right. It is very rare in any dispute to find 100 per cent right on one side and zero per cent right on the other side. But that would have been one of those cases. I am glad to say that when the men went out the Bolte Government agreed that they would be paid until the situation was resolved. But if the men had gone out on strike and said 'No: We believe it is too dangerous at this stage to continue to work until there has been a clear investigation of what has happened' I believe they would have had a perfect moral right to receive their wages. But that moral right would not have been permitted by this clause. I believe that it is a very bad clause indeed and I am shocked that the Minister is prepared to associate himself with it. 
-The Premier of Queensland announced today that his State would not be making any contribution to Kampuchean relief unless and until it was satisfied that the money could be properly accounted for. This follows from a gift of food and medical supplies from the Australian Government and a contribution of $100,000 and the offer of technical assistance by the New South Wales Government after a public appeal in that State.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  extreme sensitivity to the fear that funds might be misused in some way suggests a curious lack of proportionality in the face of the starvation which threatens 2.5 million inhabitants of Kampuchea. 
It is even odder when we recall that  Mr BjelkePetersen's  Government does not show the same sensitivity about the flow of funds at home and has refused to allow the Queensland Parliament to establish a public accounts committee so that members can have the opportunity to examine the expenditure of public moneys, examine witnesses on oath and report to the Parliament. Other States can do it, but not Queensland. The Bjelke-Petersen Foundation is aiming at a goal of$2.5m. Oddly enough, that is the equivalent of one dollar for each starving Kampuchean. What a moral example the Queensland Premier would set us all if he were to turn his slush fund over to Kampuchean relief. He could send his Minister for Main Roads,  Mr Russell  Hinze, on an investigation of the Kampuchean situation and he could report back with his characteristic colour to the Queensland Parliament. 
I feel nauseated by the actions of the Queensland Premier- the way in which he has corrupted the electoral system, the blackmailing tactics which he applies to his coalition partners, the blatant squeeze which is put on all those who do business with his Government or seek favours from it. There is a certain basic scepticism about what happens to moneys in trust which is absolutely understandable given the current public standing of the Queensland Government.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would know very well how easily money can stick to the wrong fingers. He has shown how it is possible to serve both God and mammon, although not necessarily in that order. 

 His contempt for democratic processes is very evident in the current public brawl with the Queensland Liberal Party over the issue of the next Senate elections. It is quite obvious why the National Country Party cannot run the risk of having a separate Senate ticket. There are two retiring NCP senators up for election and only one Liberal. If three tickets were offered by the major parties at the next Senate election it is clear that Labor would top the poll on primaries and elect two or possibly even three senators. The Liberals would come next and elect two senators, while the NCP would run last and elect at best only one senator. 
A Senate poll is one situation in which someone cannot gerrymander the electorate. If the NCP ran last in a field of three major parties that would inevitably raise the following question: If the NCP has the smallest support of any major party, how is it possible to have a NCP Premier and an NCP majority in the Cabinet? This question might lead those spineless State Liberal Ministers to do something about the State gerrymander and try to work out why, if they beat the National Country Party on primary votes, they ought not to be entitled to have more members in the Parliament and more Ministers in the coalition, a conclusion which seems to have escaped them so far. 
Whilst the Queensland Premier cannot gerrymander a Senate electorate, he is still up to his old tricks trying to gerrymander Senate tickets so that the Liberal Party, with a majority of the anti-Labor support in Queensland, would elect one senator and the National Country Party, with a minority, would elect two. 'What is wrong with that?' the Premier would ask. The BjelkePetersen Government will go down as the most corrupt government in Australian history. You cannot even buy a Queensland Cabinet Minister any more; you can only rent him for the afternoon. The Premier's rejection of aid to Kampuchea is the last straw.  His  Government is a moral outrage. He should leave public life immediately. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 122  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 570) concerning arrangements for the reciprocal enforcement of custody orders. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice on 22 August 1 979: 
Will he bring up to date his answers to questions Nos 124 and 993 (3 ) concerning extradition arrangements  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 570 and 25 May 1978, page 2579). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Which countries have become parties to the (a) 1 95 1 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and (b) 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees and when did they do so. 
To which Australian, British and French territories in the Pacific and Indian Ocean territories do the Convention and Protocol apply. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August, 1979: 
Which overseas posts have been (a) closed, (b) opened or (c) re-opened by the present Government. 
What were the dates of closing, opening or re-opening in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
When was formal diplomatic recognition accorded to (a) North Korea and (b) South Korea by each country which has accorded it (Question No. 3136,  Hansard,  8 March 1979, page 856). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August1979: 
Which countries have become parties to the1 961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness and when did they do so. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Now that SEATO has been disbanded in what contingencies is Australia bound to render military assistance to Thailand or the Philippines collectively or individually. 
-The Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill broadly legitimises the use of totalitarian techniques, even if it is done in the name of democracy, and removes such use from scrutiny and accountability in the Parliament. The amendment proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is a compromise proposal. It concedes more to the point of view expressed by the Government than many people in the Labor Party, both inside and outside this chamber, would want. The amendment is a compromise proposal; it does not involve bringing the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation under complete public scrutiny, even within this House. However, the amendment does involve taking the democratic operations of the Parliament on trust. 
The Bill asks the Parliament to take ASIO absolutely on trust. In our amendment we ask whether it is fair enough for ASIO to be prepared to take on trust the alternative Prime Minister of the day- the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in this Parliament- and to give the alternative Prime Minister the same right to be informed as the Attorney-General or the appropriate Minister of the day. That does not seem to be a very unreasonable proposition. It is notorious that leaders of the opposition in Great Britain have been quite heavily involved in security matters. There is always a political argument as to how far leaders of the opposition ought to be involved because to some extent they may be compromised. Their involvement may ultimately inhibit the possibility of their getting up and attacking some particular action inside the Parliament. 
The position put by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is eminently reasonable. We ought to be able to have a quid pro quo. If the Parliament is expected to take ASIO on trust when we know little or nothing about its operating methods or how it goes about its business, then ASIO ought to be prepared to go to at least some length and take the alternative Prime Minister of this nation on trust. 
-On hearing the kind of approach that has been taken by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  we begin to realise how very difficult it is to try to take a bipartisan approach on this extraordinary piece of legislation. The words of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  are certainly in contradiction to what was said by the Attorney-General in the Senate. We are told 'Don't worry about the form of the law. We can always rely on a benevolent Attorney-General or a benevolent DirectorGeneral to act otherwise; the law should not be read too literally'. But as legislators we are obliged to look at the letter of the law. The Opposition's proposed new clause 7a  (  1 ) has to be read in context. It relates not just to clause 7 but to that Pandora's box which is found in Division 2 of Part III- the provision that opens access to a whole panoply of powers that we generally associate with totalitarian governments. The bases on which these powers could be used, if at all, have to be examined very carefully and very scrupulously. 
The Minister made a point which I must take up because it worries me a lot. If he reads the  Hansard  report of what he said, he might ponder about it. There was a clear implication in what he said that there are sectional purposes for which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation exists- specifically as a wing or adjunct of government rather than national purposes which might be expressed and examined in a bipartisan way and in which the Opposition would reasonably be involved. Then there was the curious argument that a partisan approach might be a better protection for the liberties of the subject than a bipartisan approach. That is really very strange. Let me remind the Committee of that great novel  Animal Farm  by George Orwell. A series of rules was painted on the barn wall. The rules said: 'No animal shall kill another animal' and 'All animals are equal'. After a brief period of rule by the pigs, the other animals came back to see that the rules had been altered slightly to read: 'No animal shall kill another animal except for just cause'. And they said 'Naturally we would not go into animal killing unless there was just cause involved'. Another rule was: 'All animals are equal but some are more equal than others'. 
In this legislation there is a similar breaking down of the rule that says in a free society the inviolability of the mail, the inviolability of the telephone and the inviolability of private communication between people are absolute. Honourable members on the Government side are saying: 'No, that is not exactly what we are saying. That is an absolute right- but not where reasons of state determine otherwise '. When we on the Opposition side ask 'Who determines the reasons of state that overturn the fundamental principle on which a democratic society is based?' honourable members opposite say: 'Oh, that is the Minister'. When we ask whether the Minister is subject to any kind of constraint, honourable members opposite say: 'No, the Minister is a reasonable chap and we leave it to him'. The Opposition's amendment proposes that there ought to be a caveat. I refer to the professional discipline that the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  would be more familiar with than matters of civil liberty. He would know about caveats. The Opposition says that the Leader of the Opposition ought to be brought into it. Earlier the honourable member for Dundas interjected: 'What is going to happen if all the spies find out what is happening?' 
Unfortunately, we have a 'cult of security' instead of a 'cult of scepticism' where things are examined with due proportion. Let me give an example. It is very difficult to find out just what ASIO has done in respect of spies but there is one case history that is worth examining. It occurred in New Zealand which in many ways parallels our society. ASIO's ugly sister in New Zealand is SIS, the Security Intelligence Service. It found a spy, just one. There was the celebrated spy trial in February 1975. This case is the nearest analogy that could be regarded as appropriate to 
Australia. The spy the SIS picked was a beauty and I am sorry that the case was ignored in Australia. This was the case of the celebrated  Dr William  Ball Sutch, a very eminent New Zealand academic, economist and administrator.  His  nearest equivalent in Australian terms would be  Dr H.  C. Coombs. One wonders what sort of ASIO operation might one day be mounted against somebody of the eminence of  Dr Coombs. Dr Sutch  was the first permanent New Zealand representative in the United Nations, permanent head of the Department of Industries and Commerce,  Chairman  of the Queen Elizabeth II Council- the equivalent of our Australia Council- and so on. He was arrested as a spy. 
-Because while he was out jogging early one morning, one of the people he had been talking to had been an officer of the Russian Embassy who it was indicated ultimately wanted to defect.  Dr Sutch  was tried for spying. It is the only case of a spy being charged in Australia or New Zealand. Of course, the jury saw the absolute absurdity of the prosecution and  Dr Sutch  was acquitted. He only had to bear  $40,000  in costs and by that stage he was terminally ill with liver cancer and he died in September 1975, 12 months to the day, I think, after being arrested. That is the kind of triumphant success story that ASIO and its relatives have had. In looking at the competence of ASIO, I doubt whether ASIO could track a bleeding elephant through snow. But it can suppress information. It is so maddening to hear the absurdity that is put up to us. Security services such as ASIO seem to have three main functions: Intelligence gathering, intelligence suppression and negative employment. I thought that the negative employment agency within ASIO could, on the basis of past experience, well be run now or in the future by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  on a fee-for-service basis. 
The recent book  Nuclear Disaster in the Urals  by Zhores A. Medvedev deals with the operations of the United States Central Intelligence Agency in suppressing the reports of the terrible explosion caused by nuclear wastes late in 1957 in the Russian Ural town of Kyshtym. Information was suppressed for 20 years. It was suppressed by the KGB in Russia and by the CIA in the United States because they were shaking hands with each other. They said: 'Between your interests and our interests there is no difference at all because we both want nuclear power. We do not want any information that will strengthen the argument against the use of nuclear power to get out. So the result is that, as far as we are concerned, there is no difference between us'. With all this talk of spies and the importance of ASIO and protecting our way of life, we find over and over again evidence of the CIA and the KGB operating collusively. They do what they can to suppress information and to prevent it coming out. 
I am concerned about the powers that are to be exercised under Division 2 of Part III. They are so enormous in their significance and so fundamental in the way in which they overturn the general principles that ordinary citizens have the right of free access. I am not going to make that statement so absolute that I would deny that there may conceivably be some hypothetical case where that right might have to be infringed. But I would say this: If those rights were to be infringed, they would have to be on very strong grounds, so great that it was palpably a case where national security was involved. This situation would very rarely occur. It may happen perhaps once or twice in a lifetime; it would not be something which happens three or four times a month, as we understand is the situation in ASIO at the moment. I appeal to the Minister to consider this matter. This is the logical time- we are all going to break off in a few minutes to go to see  My Brilliant Career- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. J. D. M. Dobie)- Excuse me, is that the name of a film or a personal attribute? 
-There will be some people with brilliant careers at the film showing, including the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  We need to consider the terrible powers that we are writing into legislation. It is appalling enough that this has been done without any legislative authority, but in a way it may be even more appalling that we should sit here as a parliament, operating on a basis of open scrutiny, and say: 'No, we are going to pass powers away to a group which operates in the dark, not subject to any kind of scrutiny and not accountable to us '. I think that is appalling. 
-I say in passing that I had my first parliamentary experience in a very strict chamber where it was practically a penal offence to refer to the other place at all. Certainly we did not quote from its debates. 
There are obviously two extremes that we want to avoid. One is the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation being used as a direct arm of the Government of the day and being used simply in a direct political way as an instrumentality of the government, perhaps for the promotion of its electoral success and other things. The other extremity is where ASIO, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or whatever it is- the law enforcing authority- is so far a law unto itself that it is utterly remote from any kind of political scrutiny whatever. I think it is very important that we try to keep a middle ground. I think this is precisely what the amendments that we have proposed to clause 8 attempt to do. 
I find it very sad that there are otherwise wellintentioned members of parliament who say in effect: 'We believe that our judgment in such matters is inferior to the judgment of unknown people out there. The judgment of those unknown people- not subject to scrutiny, not subject to personal checking so far as we are concerned, not subject to debate and argument- is better that the judgment of the people who are elected to this chamber'. That may well be the case. If it is the case I suggest that our democracy is very much in trouble. There are many people who take the view that politics is a dirty business and that therefore we ought to keep ASIO out of politics. The reality is that ASIO is inevitably in politics. Of course it is not part of the dialectical process of argument, debate, voting, open power struggles more or less openly resolved, that are characteristic of a democratic system. I think we have more to fear from our own manipulation or perversion of the democratic process than from any external threat. I heartily endorse the immortal words of Walt Kelly's cartoon character Pogo: 'We have met the enemy and he is us'. In other words Australia has far more to fear from our own self-induced destruction of the democratic process than from external threat or the thought of spies with sinister beards and bombs in their pockets who come amongst us in our community. 
The implication that in order to preserve democracy in this country it is necessary to disregard democratic safeguards I find not only an odious argument but actually a stupid argument. To illustrate, for example, only in the last few weeks the film  The Private Files of J. Edgar Hoover  has been shown, certainly in Melbourne and no doubt in other cities as well. The situation with Hoover and the FBI was that Hoover was so much of a national hero that it is not too much to say that he was literally regarded as being either an embodiment of the law or perhaps even above the law himself. But now, particularly with the kindly aid of information about Hoover that has been fed out by the CIA, which for many years was the deadly enemy or rival of the FBI, I think it can be charitably said of Hoover that he appears to have been a mad man, absolutely psychotic in many ways. Yet there was a long period in United States history when he was regarded as being absolutely above criticism. The idea that a  President  could tell him what to do or make him retire was regarded as absolutely odious. It was just unconscionable. With the benefit of hindsight, that wonderful 20-20 vision we get after the event, we can see that certainly the last 20 or 25 years of Hoover's administration were really quite disastrous for the FBI and very dangerous domestically for the United States. 
Unfortunately the very personal qualities that make  Mr Justice  Woodward an admirable Director-General of Security I believe are wrongly put about in this debate by honourable members saying: 'There is nothing to worry about in the legislation; do not worry about it because we have such an excellent DirectorGeneral, somebody appointed by the Labor Government and kept on by the present Government. He will make sure that the law is not really administered in the strict sense in which it is put in the legislation'. We are making laws and we have to consider what those laws are and what the situation would be like if, for example,  Mr Justice  Spry were resurrected as DirectorGeneral and if, say, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  were the Attorney-General. It might be a less benign regime. 
-There is of course precisely that safeguard. That is the reason why it is so important if we are trying to preserve democracy and to preserve institutions such as this, whatever is the government of the day, that it must involve the Opposition as well. It is simply because honourable members opposite have such overweening and quite unjustified confidence in themselves, that they believe that they will be in office forever, that they really see the perquisites of office and the authority to make substantial changes in Australia as being uniquely theirs. They see it as quite illegitimate for the Australian Labor Party to take any role in these matters. I think it can be said of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  that every time he opens his mouth he subtracts from the total of human knowledge. 
A democratic security service in Australia is a contradiction in terms. It cannot be anything other than an autocracy. We can only hope that it might be benevolent. But I doubt whether the secrecy of its operations improve the quality of its judgment. I think that the very secrecy of its workings means that it gets more and more remote from what is going on in the democratic mainstream in Australia. That is why I think, for example, the access to files provisions may prove to be somewhat anti-climatic. I am quite satisfied that the majority of ASIO's employees are not hit men but filing clerks. I can imagine the typical ASIO worker driving home after a heavy day at the office clipping out editorials from the Melbourne  Age,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  and  Australian Financial Review,  pasting them on sheets of paper, numbering them and stamping them 'SECRET' or 'TOP SECRET'. The general rule of classification in ASIO, I understand, is that publications with a circulation of between 100,000 and 500,000 are routinely marked SECRET' and those with a circulation of less than 100,000 are marked 'TOP SECRET'. In the Defence Signals Directorate clerks working on the UMBRA classification receive an additional salary loading by way of danger money. 
I think that we need to know far more about the operations of ASIO. I believe that Ministers have to be involved to some extent because ultimately they must take the responsibility. If a Minister is not answerable in this place, we lose any pretence of democratic control through the Parliament about what is going on in ASIO. 
-Obviously the Minister becomes vulnerable. I hate to see the evidence of a somewhat authoritarian temperament that comes through in a Bill like this. I believe that the history of security organisations, both here and overseas, is not a very encouraging one. There is much more evidence to suggest that security organisations in fact have contributed to the undermining of the democratic system in a variety of countries than they have actually assisted in preserving it. I think that the Committee ought to accept the amendments as moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) With which countries does the European Economic Community have trade agreements (Question No. 3233,  Hansard,  20 March 1979, page 938). 
On what date did each treaty enter into force. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Did  Mr G.  M. Hill of his Depanment visit Malta in 1978 to assess the prospects for increased trade between Malta and Australia; if so, what were his terms of reference. 
What were the major recommendations in  Mr Hill's  report. 
What action has been taken to follow up these recommendations. 
Will he investigate this matter to ensure that action to follow up these recommendations is expedited. 
It is very important that a qualification as proposed in new clause 23A as moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  be agreed to to make sure that, if the enormous powers of this section are in fact used, it must be on reasonable grounds. I draw the attention of the Committee again to the case that I mentioned yesterday, that is, the trial of  Dr W.  B. Sutch in February 1 975 in New Zealand. That case provides the best example that we know about the organisation and operation of security services in the Southwest Pacific. There is no comparable case in Australia that we know of. This New Zealand case is the best example. It is the Mount Everest of security work in the South Pacific; the tip of the iceberg. Not only is it the best example; it is almost the only example. It provides the most clear cut evidence of how a security service works. I put the initials 'SS' in my notes and I think that perhaps in the circumstances they are appropriate. We are justified in assuming that the evidence adduced in the Sutch case is, at best, of superior quality to the evidence in the files that we know nothing of or, at worst, of similar quality or worse than most of the evidence in the files. 
There was a series of incidents in New Zealand during the period of the Labour Government, first of  Mr Kirk  and then of  Mr Rowling,  which involved Security Intelligence Service activity, carefully leaked to the then Opposition leader,  Mr Muldoon.  The incidents involved members of the Labour Cabinet, Labour members of parliament and members of the Labour Party organisation. In the case of the Sutch prosecution, the Labour AttorneyGeneral,  Dr Finlay,  was put in an excruciating position. He did not think much of the prosecution case but, if he failed to authorise the prosecution, inevitably it would have leaked through to  Mr Muldoon  and the Opposition would have said: 'There you are. The Labour Party is going against the Security Intelligence Service and is sabotaging the national interest'. So,  Dr Finlay  authorised the prosecution. I have no reason to assume that same type of activity as happened in the Sutch trial would not happen here in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and has not happened in the pastthat is, political harassment of a kind where it is very difficult to fight back. For example, they can tap our telephones but we cannot tap theirs. So it gives the ordinary citizen or even the ordinary member of parliament very little fight-back capacity. 
The New Zealand experience is a grisly example that we ought to examine very thoughtfully. The report of that trial is really instructive and I urge all honourable members including the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who is at the table, to examine it. I think that the most charitable description that could be applied to the prosecution case in the Sutch trial is that it was piffling and mindless. The great fallacy- a fallacy as big as the George Washington monument- is that the prosecution goes along and says: 'Look, in this manila folder we have such devastating information that if ever it got out the whole of society would collapse'. But if people say 'Can we see what is in the folder', the officials say: 'No, it is too devastating'. Then, once in every 25 years when the information does come out, one finds that the actual evidence that they are leading is evidence such as that brought out in the Sutch case to the effect that  Dr Sutch  was going around picking up his milk and talking to someone who used to come around jogging in the morning. There were conversations with this man and, worst of all, this man was an embassy employee of a foreign power- to wit, Russia. They said that they came to the conclusion that something sinister had gone on. As they said, they knew that he was a man who had been associated with some very dangerous causes, to wit after the war he organised a nationwide collection of old clothing to relieve the hardship of refugees in Poland, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia. With a background like that it must have seemed like an open and shut case. That is what one might assume to be the best example of the work being done by security services in New Zealand and Australia. If that is the best example, we might ask: 'What are the worst ones?' 
-Perhaps one would be the Jean Seberg case, as the honourable member suggests. 
-May I make two points. The first is that  Hansard  may not have picked up the retraction I made in my short interchange with the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  It was essentially the appointment of not the preceding DirectorGeneral but the penultimate Director-General that I was more concerned about. I hope the Minister will reply to my second point. He said that there was a double check in that approval had to be obtained from the Director-General and the Attorney-General before certain activities could take place. 
I would be grateful for the Minister's comment, as a former Attorney-General, on the excruciating situation in which  Dr Finlay  found himself in New Zealand, as Attorney-General in a Labor government. All indications were that the Security Intelligence Service was, in effect, leaking information like a sieve to the Government's political opponents. As the AttorneyGeneral he was in a 'Morton's fork' situation. If he declined to go ahead with the prosecution, obviously that would be leaked to the Opposition and used to the detriment of the Government. Yet he really was obliged under very strong political pressure to go ahead with the prosecution in which he had no great confidence. 
Sitting suspended  from  6  to  8 p.m. 
I wish to say a few last words about the amendments. I stress that these amendments have the intention of attempting to strengthen the power of the Parliament vis-a-vis the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, whereas the purpose of this legislation is to strengthen ASIO's powers visavis the Parliament. The Opposition wants to stengthen the standing and the rights of the ordinary citizen vis-a-vis ASIO. The Bill attempts to do the reverse. We are trying to attempt to strengthen the processes of the law relative to ASIO. This Bill attempts to do the reverse. 
As I have suggested earlier, there is a serious side to ASIO and perhaps a more trivial side to ASIO. Most of what we know or what leaks out about ASIO suggests that ASIO in Australia really concentrates very much on easy targets -on targets on street marches, especially in Brisbane, Aboriginal land rights campaigners, pacifists, environmentalists, trade unionists and so on. But the ostensible reason for it all is to keep Australia free of subversion. In a sense that fundamental argument is based on a total fallacy, I believe; and that is that there is a secret or collection of secrets that can be put in an envelope somewhere and passed from hand to hand and that the handing over of that envelope can really fundamentally change the entire strategic position of and the entire safety of a nation. I think that the more we examine the contemporary world, the more it seems extraordinarily unlikely that this would be the case. 
There is abundant evidence, I think, that there is a great deal of collusion between the great international systems and that ASIO, MI6, the KGB and the Central Intelligence Agency have more in common with each other than with the democratic system in our own country. It may have a good deal more in common with the system of the Soviet Union. I believe that the points that have been made so eloquently throughout this debate by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  are absolutely right. It could not be said that the Hope report had the effect of destroying ASIO. Indeed, we are told that this Bill was, in a large part, a response to  Mr Justice  Hope's report. I could add to the report being done by  Mr Acting  Justice White in South Australia the fact that the former  Mr Justice  Nelson of the Victorian Supreme Court is performing a similar exercise in Victoria by going through and destroying files of the Special Branch of the Victorian Police Force when they are not considered to be relevant. 
I will close with a valuable quotation which illustrates the point I have been making earlier. I have only just located it. It is a quotation from the  Far Eastern Economic Review  of 14 March 1975. It refers again to the case of  Dr Sutch.  It states: 
Five days after  Dr William  Sutch was found not guilty of spying  (Review,  March 7), on a charge brought under the Official Secrets Act, he said in a television interview that he believed Dmitri Aleksandrovich Razgovorov, formerly first secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Wellington, wanted to defect and was about to seek his help. Sutch said his suspicions (which were not mentioned in court as Sutch was not called as a witness) were aroused when he learned from Crown evidence that the Security Intelligence Service (SIS) knew of his last meeting with the Russian, and its agents lay in waiting before apprehending him. But one rumour in Wellington suggests that that is only part of the story: Razgovorov wanted to defect and his masters wanted to catch him at it. The late Prime Minister, Norman Kirk, a romantic, wanted to disband or greatly restrain the power of the SIS. 
The SIS needed public justification for its existence and Sutch stumbled into its path. The Russians got their man, but the spy-catchers of the SIS were empty-handed, even with the help of the Soviets. 
It sounds like a story by John le Carre. I believe it is the truth. 
Amendments negatived. 
Question put. 
-Unlike the security area dealt with in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill which is highly subjective, highly emotive and liable to the grossest errors of self-deception, the drug area is a very real problem in which there are identifiable victims, measurable harm done and a quantifiable amount of social loss. Nevertheless it is still very important that procedures that deviate from the norm, so far as the tapping of telephones and the like are concerned, are carried out to the absolute minimum, provided there is some kind of judicial safeguard. I think that the procedures with regard to the kind of evidence needed before a judge will grant a warrant, as moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  are thoroughly justified. At first glance clause 20 ( 1 ) says that no warrant shall be issued, in effect, unless the judge is satisfied by information on oath'. A whole series of supporting sub-clauses is set out. In some ways it may be thought that by changing that provision to requiring the information on affidavit actually weakens it. I do not think that is so. 
Those of us who have had experience in magistrates' courts and so on will be aware of the fact that many things are said very glibly on oath where the constable grabs the Testament and gabbles off something very rapidly. There is an old legal maxim that the truth will out even in an affidavit. We believe that an affidavit must be presented by way of evidence and that it should be quite specific. In the circumstances it will not be possible to have the normal adversarial situation of the court where it is possible for evidence to be challenged. Therefore, I think it is perfectly proper that the judge who is hearing the application should satisfy himself that a whole number of points are set out quite specifically and quite cogently in the affidavit before him. He will then, of course, have an opportunity to test the validity of the arguments put forward in the affidavit. 
As a result, I think that the Committee ought to accept the amendments put forward by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I do not believe that they weaken what the Government is attempting to do in this area, but they do make sure that, if there is to be a violation of the telephone system or the telegraph system, or any other form of communication under the responsibility of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, it is done by the following of due process. As a result, I hope that the Committee will accept the amendments moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
-When I hear the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  he reminds me of the Buddhist koan about the sound of one hand clapping. The point he is making is absolutely nonsensical. What he forgets is that we are not dealing with the ordinary situation in court where a judge hears a case put by a prosecutor and another case put on an adversarial basis on the other hand. The judge has to form an opinion. The other point is that the issuing of a warrant to tap a telephone is on a different basis and of different seriousness from most of the warrants issued by magistrates. Of course it is proper that a warrant be issued by a judge rather than a magistrate. But what we are simply saying is that if it is good enough for evidence to be given on oath that evidence ought to be particularised in writing in the form of an affidavit so that there is a permanent record of it if there is any subsequent inquiry about it. 
I think there is a large amount of hypocrisy in this matter. If there were a suggestion that we should use telephone tapping for the purpose of dealing with tax avoidance or tax frauds I wonder whether we would get the same kind of reaction from members on the other side of the House. 
-I am dealing very strictly with the clause. I was so carried away with the splendid drafting of the amendments by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that I was lost in admiration and lost my place in the voluminous document for a moment. The point is this: We ought to be able to apply the general principles of law right across the board whether in drug cases, security cases or tax avoidance cases. But, of course, this Government has not got round to legislating on tax avoidance and the use of telephone tapping in this regard. I believe that the power to tap telephones is an extremely dangerous power because of the consequences of the information that might be secured. If the wrong person's telephone is tapped and his conversations are recorded a person who is completely innocent may be under sur.viellance when his activities ought not to attract the attention of the law enforcement bodies. This is a very dangerous precedent. Those of us who have been in Russia have always had the uneasy sense that when we go into an hotel room we are not sure whether we are there to watch the television or whether the television is there to watch us. I regard as absolutely repellant the thought that somebody who wanted an instant warrant from a judge could approach him by telephone- we hope that it would not be bugged- in order to pick up a warrant. I beg honourable members to think of the seriousness and the implications of that happening. In a curious way the honourable member for Dundas in his naivety seemed to be arguing for our case. He conceded the real significance of the matter. He said that we should not fetter the people who are seeking the warrants. 
-I said the people seeking the warrants. All I am saying is that I would like to see the best evidence put before the judge. The judge is put in an exceedingly invidious position in which he is not necessarily - 
-Just a minute. One of the things that troubles me about this clause is that we are able in a sense to pick any judge. In a sense, what the Opposition has tried to do is to break down the system from a jurisdictional point of view - 
-Not necessarily, but I am simply saying one would not necessarily want the situation - 
-No, I am saying quite the reverse. I am saying that this legislation says that you can go to any judge - 
-No, what I am saying is that obviously if there is a case that is specifically involving Queensland it would seem quite logical to me to approach a judge in Queensland. If we wanted to approach a situation in TasmaniaGod help us- I would want to see probably a relative of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  a Tasmanian judge, involved in the matter- somebody closer to the actual scene. In amendment No. 7 to clause 20 one sees we want particularised which judge may grant a warrant and we want the evidence that goes before the judge to be particularised. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
Is Australia still bound by thedeclaration made in 1 953 by the nations which had contributed forces to the United Nations in Korea that they would again resist an armed attack in breach of the armistice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
What are the quotas for kangaroo kills for 1979-80 in respect of each State and Territory. 
In each case, (a) what species are included in the quotas and (b) does the quota represent an increase or decrease on the 1978-79 figures. 
How many kangaroos were killed for export in each year from 1969-70 to date. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What was the growth in productivity for the (a) primary, (b) mining, (c) manufacturing and (d) services sectors between 1964-65 and 1975-76 as measured by (i) annual average increase in GDP per hour worked and (ii) annual average increase in GDP per person employed. 
What is the growth in productivity for the (a) construction, (b) wholesale and retail, (c) finance, (d) community services, ( e ) entertainment and (f) other industries as measured by (i) annual average increase in GDP per hour worked and (ii) annual average increase in GDP per person employed. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 September 1979: 
Further to his amended answer to Question No. 4472  (Hansard,  25 September 1979, page 1530) concerning the necessity for the use of the English language in incoming passenger cards and outgoing passenger cards, is it a fact that the words 'The card must be completed in the English language' appear on the back of each card and that the instructions are printed in the English language alone which might give rise to an inference that no other language will be understood by immigration officials. 
Is it also a fact that in the (a) outgoing passenger card of 12 questions and (b) incoming passenger card of 13 questions, in only one (No. 10, usual occupation) is the matter of language of any relevance. 
While English is the official language in Australia and presumably is the official language in Great Britain, is he able to say whether the British immigration authorities do not regard it as necessary to say that it is compulsory for British immigration forms to be filled in in English. 
Further to the answer to part 2 of Question No. 4472, have immigration officials ever complained that passengers have in practice made their tasks difficult by the use of native scripts; if so, what were the native scripts in question and in what way would the answers to questions 1 to 9 and 1 1 and 12 on the exit form and questions 1 to 9 and 1 1 and 13 on the entry form differ if they were written in a language other than English. 
Will he give further consideration to the contention that the insistence on the use of the English language suggests a cultural anxiety and insecurity which is not appropri  atefor a nationwith100languagesinuse. 
Would Australian travellers be (a) advantaged or (b) disadvantaged if other countries, e.g. China and Japan, require them to fill in forms in the local national language. 
Did the Minister for Industrial Relations authorise his staff to hand out copies of, and to brief journalists on, the Staples letter? If he did not - 

 Government members interjecting- 

-by leave-My skills at speed reading have been put to extreme test because I have just seen the ministerial statement in the last few minutes. I have also been reading the 108 recommendations made by the Joint Committee on Publications. On general principles there are some elements of the statement of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  to be commended and with which we would agree. But there are some criticisms which need to be made. The first is in relation to the recommendation No. 1, on which I think the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  might care to comment, which provides as follows: 
That at the commencement of each session of Parliament, a resolution be agreed to by both Houses of Parliament similar to the following: 
That the Government Printer be responsible to the Presiding Officers for the printing of all Parliamentary publications and be provided with the necessary resources to meet Parliamentary printing requirements. That at all times the Government Printer give priority &gt; Parliamentary work. 
The Government's response, which was incorporated in the Minister's statement, says as follows: 
The Government believes that the Government Printer is an agency of the Government, not the Parliament. It observes that the long standing arrangements with the Presiding Officers for the printing of parliamentary publications have proved satisfactory. The Government Printer allocates priorities during parliamentary sittings to ensure that the documents required for Parliament are produced within the required times. The Parliament will appreciate, however - 
Here is the rub- that there will be circumstances when the Government Printer would need to give priority to urgent Government printing. The Government also believes that it would be preferable for parliamentary as well as departmental publications to continue to be arranged through the AGPS Publishing Branch. 
Once we accept the principle that Parliament can be demoted on the fiat of a Minister or gaggle of Ministers then we are consenting to our own destruction. I believe that there is a responsibility that priority No. 1 be given to the work of the Parliament because ultimately the democratic system cannot work without the Parliament. There are Government departments which can work, no matter how inconvenient it is for them, by delays in publications, but this House cannot work unless its requirements are given absolutely No. 1 priority. There are few enough opportunities when the Parliament has a chance to get up on its collective hind legs and assert priority for itself. I believe that this is one opportunity when we ought to be doing that. It is a great pity that the Government has not accepted this recommendation. I do not believe that its adoption would lead to a massive inconvenience for Government departments, but the principle is very important. It is somewhat to be regretted that the Government has not accepted the principle of the establishment of a board of review which could have some kind of broad oversight. 
-That is true, but I think that the recommendation made by the Joint Committee on Publications, presided over so capably by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  should have been adopted. The response to that recommendation is one of the points with which we would disagree. On the other hand, to be fair to the Minister, I think that broadly speaking the Opposition agrees with the 
Minister's statement that the recommendation that AGPS operations be placed on a more commercial footing does not really meet the circumstances of the case. I agree with what the Minister said about the Publishing Service not operating in a completely commercial environment. Many publications which have to be produced and which are necessary for matters of public record are not exactly going to sell like  Gone with the Wind.  One could hardly expect the AGPS to operate on a commercial basis. I think we have to concede that a number of information services simply cannot be operated on a commercial basis, any more than the Australian Broadcasting Commission could be put on a strictly commercial basis. However, there is one recommendation from the Publications Committee which I hope will be brought up. Recommendation 106 is not covered in the ministerial statement, but I think that it is related to the point I have just made. It states: 
That the Presiding Officers continue their examination of the most suitable computer information retrieval system for introduction into the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The response reads: 
This is a matter for Parliament to consider. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I put it to you to take up with  Mr Speaker  and the  President  of the Senate that this is absolutely correct. The development and survival of this Parliament in a period of increasing technological complexity demands that this Parliament have the greatest fight-back capacity that it possibly can so that we are aware of the enormous and complex issues which are proliferating around us and that this Parliament can no longer operate with the same kind of information services that parliaments had 50 years ago and 100 years ago. We must strengthen ourselves particularly against the resources that the bureaucracy has. As a result I hope that something can be done. I would like to think that the Government would reconsider recommendation No. 1 made by the Joint Committee on Publications. 
-The speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  reminded me of Sherlock Holmes' remark about the curious incident of the dog in the night time. 'But', said  Dr Watson,  'the dog did nothing in the night time'. That', said Holmes, 'was the curious incident'. The most interesting thing about the Minister's speech was what he did not say. I have re-read the speech three or four times now. There is not one sentence on the media context in which this satellite is to be introduced. There is not one sentence, not one phrase, on the pattern of media ownership in this country, which has the greatest concentration of media power of any in the Western world. We would have to go to the Soviet Union or China to see a comparable concentration of media control. 
The speech itself was essentially a 'motherhood' statement, so dripping with the milk of human kindness that we instinctively felt uneasy about it. In the few minutes that are available, let us look at the context of the statement. The Minister cited the Canadian example several times. Let us look at the reality of what is happening in Canada. As the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  said, the Canadian population is stretched out in a very long, reasonably densely populated strip. Ninety-five per cent of the population of Canada is concentrated within 200 kilometres of the United States border. 
The effect of the satellite has not been to stimulate and create more employment in Canadian television. What it has meant, of course, is that it has provided direct access to the American networks for the people of Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto and Vancouver and the other cities right along the line. It is true that it gives them a much greater diversity. That perhaps, might be welcomed. But this is not exactly the situation in Australia. Because of the nature of our country, geographically isolated from the nearest television transmitting neighbour, people will most likely have the choice of the city programs beamed into their local areas, with the very great probability, I would think, of destroying the regional television industry, such as it is. But Canada, of course, does not have our pattern of media monopoly either. We know that the apparent viability of the Canadian ANIK satellites is achieved only by a price fixing agreement, the Telesat agreement, among the private telephone companies and by heavy use of networking of radio and television by the Canadian broadcasting network. My colleague,  Senator Ryan,  asked the Minister a question on notice on 2 1 August 1979. The question stated: 
How many individual subscriber telephony circuits operating through satellite are there: (a) world wide; (b) in Canada; (c) in the United States. 
No answer has been forthcoming because, quite simply, the answer is, presumably, none. Australia is to be the first country in which this technology is tried as we are very often the test market for new technology. It is quite unproven and quite uncosted. In the  Australian Financial Review  of 25 September the Minister is reported as saying: 
. there would not be a recommendation for direct broadcast facility in his forthcoming submission to Cabinet. 
Yet direct broadcasting is the technique central to providing remote areas with telephones. But the Minister steamrollers and his Government has promised effectively to provide telephone and television by satellite to those living in Australia's remote areas. The Minister has spoken of a small satellite dish which he described as 'huggable' and a black box that will enable low cost telephony and television to be provided in remote areas. The very nature of satellite technology, the idea of placing half a tonne of advanced electronic circuitry into orbit 22,300 miles above the earth, is quite astounding to many people. The complexity and remoteness of the satellites from our immediate experience severely limits understanding of their real capabilities and true utility. 
The Minister's statement and, indeed, the report that has just been tabled today entitled National Communications Satellite System: Working Group Report' is very careful to avoid the media implications in terms of media control in this country. The 205 pages of this report are written in language which is almost impenetrable and that quality of its writing will assure that, as usual, it will have very few readers. The fewer the readers the more likely that its conclusions will be adopted virtually without analysis and virtually without debate. What we do not have in the Minister's statement is the reality of who the big users are to be and how the system is to be funded. Of course there are good elements in this scheme. Of course, we all welcome the idea that additional services will be provided for people who are outside the present range. But when we examine what the Australian Broadcasting Commission and what Telecom have told the task force and later the working group we find that the total number of people who are excluded within the foreseeable future is not half a million or more but about 40,000. Telecom says that by 1985 the terrestrial network in Australia will be of such a density that only 40,000 people will be excluded. We then have to ask ourselves the question: Is the satellite being put into the sky purely to benefit those 40,000 people? I do not really believe that anyone can accept that reason as correct. 
We can see some good to this system. One is that it provides a 'fail safe' system. If anything goes wrong with the terrestrial network the satellite system is able to provide a complementary service. But it is also possible to identify four bad things in this system. The fact that none of them are really referred to at any length in this the working group paper does cause some concern. The first point is that substantial funds will be transferred from the ABC towards the satellite project. We ask: If such substantial funds are to be transferred for that purpose, what then becomes of the freedom of action of the ABC commissioners to determine what they think is the best programming for Australia? In other words, if money is to be taken away from the ABC it cannot be said at the same time that the ABC has the same degree of freedom as it has had before to produce programs and determine its own priorities. It is quite clear that a priority is being imposed on the ABC. To that extent it interferes with the autonomy of its authority. 
The second point is the threat to Telecom Australia. Telecom has made it very clear that it opposes the satellite. Of course, it has very good reasons for doing this. Telecom will be threatened with a completely independent authority which will employ, compared to Telecom, relatively few people. Telecom, of course, has criticised the whole motivation of the satellite system. On page 1959 the report sets out what Telecom has said. The report states: 
Telecom has indicated both that it has doubts about the need for a satellite system and that it would be a minor user. The Working Group acknowledges the importance of the  considerations, particularly financial, put forward by Telecom in arriving at its position. In these circumstances - 
There is a touch of irony in this- the Working Group considers that there must be doubts about the desirability of placing responsibility for development and operating a national communications satellite system with that organisation. 
In other words, Telecom has indicated scepticism about the project and it fears that its own position will be weakened. Therefore the working group recommends: 'Let us keep well away from Telecom. We do not want anything to do with it. Let us put up an independent statutory authority'. 
The third point that seems very likely is the destruction of regional television. This has, for all practical purposes, been the effect in much of Canada. I believe it will happen here too. I notice that at page 145 of the report the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union and the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association submissions are quoted as follows: 
In the television industry, provincial telecasters have identified 4,000 jobs at stake in country TV stations if the Broadcasting and Television Act is amended ... to permit the broadcasting of capital city programs by new competing stations; 
Employment in the banking and finance industries is already under serious challenge by the incursion of automatic data processes and associated terminal devices . . . 
In the 205 pages of the report- that is not counting the appendices- precisely 2'/4 pages are devoted to the question of employment consequences. This to me seems an almost classic example of a paper that has been put out by technological determinists who make a very flat assertion that while there are identifiable jobs which will be cast aside by adopting new technology, on the other hand these will be compensated for in some unascertainable and unidentifiable way by jobs which they cannot precisely identify at the moment but which they feel quite sure will develop. The tragedy is that the threatened jobs are actual, identifiable and measurable. I was careful to pick up what the Minister said. He referred not to jobs that would' appear but to jobs that 'could' appear. To use his word, the jobs which 'could' appear are at this stage only hypothetical, a pious hope, quite incapable of being precisely identified. What the report says vaguely on page 1 46 is this:  a significant number of employment opportunities could be opened up in the manufacture of ground equipment in Australia; 
Where is the guarantee of that? If because of different wage levels we can buy that equipment in Hong Kong or it could be made in the Philippines or made in Singapore, why would it necessarily be made by Australians? There is no guarantee of that at all. Similarly, the report simply states: 
Overseas experience- 
The countries are not identified- indicates that, if anything, the introduction of communication satellites has increased employment. 
How much stronger the argument would have been if the report had had a little appendix at the back which could have indicated the figures. That would have bowled us all over. But there is not a word about it. That is the beginning and the end of the statement and nothing more has been added to it. The fourth and most objectionable point to honourable members on this side of the House is that it will lead to a redistribution of wealth towards the people who will be the heavy users of the system, foreign corporations and the present media owners. Effectively the costs of the satellite system will be underwritten by the taxpayer, both through the Australian Broadcasting Commission and by the use of funds from taxation. An amount of 35 per cent will be brought in from taxation and 65 per cent will be brought in by loan funds, of which the interest, no doubt, will ultimately be paid by the taxpayer. The effect of that, of course, is to redistribute wealth away from the poor- taxpayers in generaltowards the wealthiest and the most powerful people in Australia. That is the greatest con game that has ever been put over the Australian people. It could be described as a case of 'robbing Talbot to pay Rupert'. It is simply transferring money out of the public purse and giving it over to the very wealthy Australian media barons. 
Clearly the Government's intention is to broach Telecom 's public monopoly and at public cost set up a satellite system to be used by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Western Mining Corporation, Packer, Murdoch, IBM Australia Ltd, and the rest. The working group has absolutely failed to identify firm users of the satellite other than those I have named- but not one word about them appeared in the Minister's statement. Of course, all of these people will be interested when the price is right. The price will be made right by the massive public subsidy going into the satellite. The subsidy will be generated by making government departments and authorities use the satellite. The ABC is described as requiring between 5! and  6lA  transponders during the life of the satellite; that is to say, effectively 35 per cent to 40 per cent of the satellite capacity. 
Are we to blithely accept that the Fraser Government, which has starved the ABC of funds, should now readily commit hundreds of millions of dollars to a satellite so that the ABC can be the largest user of it? The answer is: Yes, because the input of money from the ABC, if it took up that amount of satellite space, would be sufficient to meet the capital costs of the first generation of satellites. Effectively the cost would be underwritten by the ABC and the cost of use to corporate interests would be marginal. 
Television use of the satellite is central to this proposal because as the Minister said in his statement, there was significant demand for broadband television capacity. Where does that demand come from? Most certainly not from the regional television stations which serve over four million people in Australia. When stations were surveyed about their interests in satellites, only two out of 24 stated an interest, and then only if it were at a lower cost than the terrestrial means.  Mr Kerry  Packer is lobbying for a national television network. He will get it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
Is it a fact that merchant seamen who served in war zones during World War II are eligible for war service homes, for membership of the R.S.L. and for the award of the Australian service medal; if so, why are merchant seamen prisoners of war excluded from receipt of benefits under the Repatriation Act Amendment Act which applies to other prisoners of war. 
-In 1950 the father of cybernetics Norbert Wiener, Professor of Mathematics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in his book  The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Human Beings  wrote these prophetic words on page 1 89: 
Let us remember that the automatic machine ... is the precise economic equivalent of slave labor. Any labor which competes with slave labor must accept the economic consequence of slave labor. 
A convenient illustration of this particular chicken coming home to roost is the example of the Olivetti TES 401 word processor. The discrepancy between the cost of leasing the machine and the cost of the five employees who might be estimated conservatively to be displaced by its introduction would be of the order of 1:27. That is, it would cost $33 a week to lease the machine compared with five salaries at, say, $180 a week for each employee. To reduce wages to a level of strict comparability with the cost of the machine would involve a 2,700 per cent fall in wages to $6.50 a week for each person. That is slave labour. We are faced with the difference between the low cost of and modest needs for slave labour- the machines- and the high cost of and needs for free labour. 
The labour displacing machines can work 24 hours a day. They do not require lighting, heating and ventilation in their work places. They do not need annual holidays, public holidays or weekends. They do not receive overtime or penalty rates. They do as they are told and never argue back. They do not go on strike and they do not join unions. They are not eligible for long service leave, sick leave or workers compensation. They have no meal breaks. They do not seek wage rises and they make no demands for industrial democracy. In the present distribution of wealth and power in Australia, the new technology is often used as an instrument for the strong against the weak and the rich against the poor. This leads to a strengthening of the skilled and accomplished against the unskilled or deskilled. This is all happening with only the barest expression of interest by this Parliament and with only the foggiest understanding both inside and outside the Parliament of what is going on. 
Despite a large number of early warning signs, Australia and its institutions come woefully illprepared to the broad debate on technological change and its social impact. Governments, parties, unions, employers and other interest groups must share the blame which largely arises because we tend to be pre-occupied here with immediate, short term concerns and postpone examination of the more serious long term problems. The media in general- and the Press in particular- have shown the most monumental lack of interest in, or even curiosity about, the impact of high technology on employment. Given what happened to the London  Times,  this might be an appropriate maxim: Never speak of rope in the house of a man who has been hanged. The media and the Press exhibit a high degree of 'gee whiz' interest in the hardware and software which is not unrelated to the advertising that it generates. Characteristically, the media is interested in the 'how' and 'what' questions but it is not at all interested in the 'why' questions nor, to adopt a maxim of Lenin, is it interested in the 'Who whom?' question which, Lenin said, was the basic political issue- 'who does what to whom?' I will not use the exact equivalent of the Russian verb. The so-called serious Press has shown an astounding degree of gullibility in accepting the views of the 'technological determinists'- the credulous public servants, incurious journalists and vigorous salesmenwithout question. 
My submission to the Myers Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia appears to have been the only one made by any member of parliament in Australia. The United States in the last decade has had remarkable success in creating new jobs. The largest group of these jobs has been in the 'Information Sector* of the economy, broadly defined. That sector includes the collection, processing and dissemination of data, for example by teachers, public servants, media workers, office workers, social workers and many health workers. The United States Department of Commerce says that by 1980, 50 per cent of all United States employees will be working in the 'Information Sector'- as many as all other paid workers combined. However, it seems very unlikely that Australia will follow this precedent. I am inclined to think that the Minister for Productivity has emigrated already. 
There is a sense that in the global economy the United States is head office. When the United States does basic research and development- for example, in aerospace or telecommunications- it does it for the entire world. The United States is also much further into the information revolution than Australia. In the United States, more than 50 per cent of young people aged between 20 and 24 years are undergoing full time education- itself enormously labour absorptive -while in Australia only 21.4 per cent of young people between the ages of 17 and 22 are in full time or part time education. Certainly we lack the educational basis of the United States to create new jobs in the ' Information Sector '. It seems certain that job creation in the US, in creating the new technology, is a major factor in worldwide job displacement. There is a huge net loss globally, but an immense profit for the United States. There is also the paradox that the area which might appear to have the greatest opportunity for job creation in Australia, following on recent United States experience, is also the most susceptible to the impact of technological job displacement, in which there is far greater output at dramatically lower cost in what has become an increasingly Parkinsonian area of employment. 
It is essential that we begin to grasp the significance of the micro-electronic revolution which has led to a dramatic break with past economic history. Firstly it permits maximising of two advantages at once- greater output at dramatically lower cost. In other words, industry can have its cake and eat it too. Secondly, it destroys the classic, neo-classic and Keynesian precept that output and employment are necessarily in direct relationship and that if output goes up, employment must go up too. The Minister said it himself. I copied down his exact words. When he referred to 'increased output and therefore employment creation'. He makes it sound as though it is absolutely axiomatic. It is not axiomatic. 
-That is quite right, as the honourable member recognises. As I have argued repeatedly, it is true of many services performed personally that as output goes up, employment goes up as well. But there are many major exceptions. I have described the major exceptions in what I have immodestly described as 'Jones ' law ' which says: 
In the supply of products or general economic services, on a massive scale, employment does not necessarily have a direct relationship to demand. 
The relationship may be in inverse proportion and, as demand goes up, relative demand for employment may go down. 
There are many examples, such as Telecom, the chemical industry, the fuel industry and much of retailing. A central fallacy ran through the Minister's speech, which, to give him credit, he did not read with much conviction. The fallacy goes like this: 
Australia must adopt the new technology in order to increase output relative to labour costs in order to enable low cost, high volume production runs which are then internationally competitive. This activity will then create newbut unidentified-jobs which will then raise labour costs which is a reversal of the reasons for adopting the new technology in the first place. 
That is a very careful paraphase of what the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  said. The new techniques are specifically designed to eliminate jobs and reduce labour costs. If, after all, these techniques lead to higher numbers of jobs and increased labour costs, why adopt the new techniques in the first place? There is an absolute uncertainty about where the Government is going. What is clear is that the lost jobs are absolutely identifiable and quantifiable. The new jobs which we are told will be created are quite unidentifiable and unquantifiable. We accept that new jobs will be created. All the indications are that these jobs will require a higher level of skill, and that they will be fewer in number than the jobs that they replace. There must be a clear indication as to what happens to the people without marketable skills. What happens to the people who are displaced? Technological change has to be an even-handed business. When the Government talks about promoting the idea of new technology, it ought also to give us some indication as to how it will deal with the possible social consequences. For the last eight years I have devoted myself to this subject and I believe that I have made some contributions. We have yet to hear from the Government. 
I conclude by illustrating my point about miniaturisation. I have in my hand a circuit panel from a 1970 computer, 13.5 centimetres by 15 centimetres. In the new microchip technology, 100 of these panels can be accommodated in a space less than the size of my little finger. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan in July 1978, and to its recommendations, and in particular to the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to question No. 4496  (Hansard,  25 September 1979, pages 1530-1) with respect to recommendation No. 4 of the report; 
If so, what action is being taken to reduce air fares between Australia and Japan and what consultations have taken place as at 26 September 1 979. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1978: 
What action is the Government taking to assist the project of  Mr Ted  Wixted of the Queensland Museum to recover the bodies of  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith and J. T. Pethybridge and the aircraft  Lady Southern Cross  lost in 1935. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the extent of the damage caused by heavy rains at the new Australian Embassy in Paris, France, in June 1979. 
What was the total cost of repair, cleaning and. replacement of damaged materials. 
Was the extent of the damage anticipated. 
What was the reason for the extent of the damage. 
What action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of extreme water damage. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) When did the Government of Malta withdraw its High Commissioner to Australia. 
When did Australia withdraw its High Commissioner to Malta. 
What discussions have taken place with a view to raising the status of representation from Acting High Commissioner to High Commissioner. 
I want to start with the general and then move on to the particular. While in theory I was quite enthusiastic about the idea of setting up Estimates committees- it was pleasing that we had the equivalent of twice as much time to consider the whole of government policy- unfortunately the reality was a bit less exciting than the prospects. 
Firstly, there was a great danger of members being absolutely swamped with information. In the case of the Department of Administrative Services we had a 605 page brief and there was an enormous gaggle of public servants to answer the various nit picking questions that we might want to raise. I suppose the opportunity to score off Ministers on comparatively small points of detail was almost irresistible for some of us. The problem was that by being so swamped with matters of detail it did seem to me that we were rather inhibited from canvassing the broad policy issues. The result was that there was an enormous amount of discussion on points of detail and not really a great deal of discussion on broad policy issues. 
I must say that compared with the budgets in State Parliaments, which are comparatively plain sailing, I have been a bit taken back by the extraordinary complexity of some of the Budget procedures and, in particular, by the significance of the permanent appropriations that are so characteristic in the Commowealth Parliament. When the Budget was brought down a few months ago there were a few items that I was looking for and I did not grasp that they were in permanent appropriations. When I spoke to some of the long serving members, even some of the lifers around the place, they were inclined to say vaguely: 'Look, you have turned to the wrong page. It is all there somewhere'. Then when I looked further they would say: 'You know, it does not seem to be there after all'. That takes me to the mystery of the permanent appropriations. It is astonishing how little information there is about these permanent appropriations. I have a question on notice- a little bird told me that I am likely to get an answer to it some time before the end of this decade- which seeks very precise information about the nature of permanent and special appropriations. There is very little information to be found about them, although there are a couple of references in the book  Australian Senate Practice  by  Mr J.  R. Odgers, the former  Clerk  of the Senate. I will read two very short sections. 
-Unfortunately there is no equivalent book about the House of Representatives. There really ought to be. Perhaps the  Clerk  at the table might take this task on board. On page 39 the book states: 
Annual appropriation..... accounted for only about 44 per cent of annual expenditure, other expenditure being covered by special appropriations. 
I understand that the figure in this year's Budget is of the order of 40 per cent and 60 per cent is really covered by permanent appropriations. On page 377 the book states:  . . . permanent appropriations are removed from the annual supervision and control of Parliament. Certain permanent appropriations were made by the Constitution, such as the salary of the Governor-General. Since 1 90 1 , other permanent appropriations have been made, pursuant to statute, such as salaries of Justices of the High Court. In modern practice, the permanent appropriations are classified as special appropriations and are grouped with many other appropriations which, while not all permanent in the strict sense, are appropriations which are not voted by Parliament from year to year. These appropriations, therefore, do not form part of the ordinary annual services of the Government and are deemed to be Amendment Bills (subject always to the qualification that the Senate may not amend any proposed laws so as to increase any proposed charge or burden on the people- section S3 of the Constitution). These special appropriations include Parliamentary Allowances, bounties, National Welfare Fund, Payments to or for the States, Debt Charges and primary industry assistance. In recent years special appropriations have comprised over SO per cent of total annual expenditure. In Canada the situation is similar to that in Australia, but in the United Kingdom the special appropriations (called Consolidated Fund Services) do not normally amount to more than 10 per cent of total expenditure. 
To find the total list of these extraordinary special appropriations one has to go to Budget Paper No. 4 entitled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ended 30 June 1980'. In this we find that the total estimate for the permanent appropriations which are not put before this Parliament is a trifling $20,37 1,85 1,000! 
-Yes. No doubt if we wanted to we could refer to this expenditure in the course of our speeches on the Budget but the point that I am trying to make is that the paper we were weighted down with at the Estimates committees, the tonnes of paper that landed on our desks, related really to that 40 per cent of expenditure covered by the Budget; the 60 per cent was not really covered at all. That is where an absolute plethora of information- the sheer volume of information- may actually have the effect of inhibiting proper examination. 
I move now to a very specific subject. I want to talk about the Department of Home Affairs and in particular about our expenditure on the arts. Commonwealth funding of the arts generally is no longer a matter of partisan debate in Australia and the ocker response to high spending on art works, such as Jackson Pollock's  Blue Poles,  now seems anachronistic. It is now 10 years since the report of the Australian Council for the Arts on film and television in Australia was adopted by the Gorton Government. The film industry, which was intensely controversial in the years 1971 and 1972, is now very widely accepted and regarded with national pride. I may say that the begetters of the 1969 report thought at that stage that we would have a modest success in the film area but, of course, the success of the Australian film industry has far exceeded our expectations. However, we need sometimes to exercise some critical oversight in spending. 
I am particularly concerned about the current situation with the Australian Opera Company. I think that it is about time that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  provided a statement to the House of Representatives about the long history of conflict within the administration of the Australian Opera. In 13 years seven general managers have been shot out of the revolving door. Of course they have been forced to take a vow of silence. In particular, we need to know much more about the reasons for the elimination of the most recent general manager,  Mr Peter  Hemmings, a man who was regarded as an aspirant to the directorships of Covent Garden and the Metropolitan Opera. I do not believe that the Australia Council's proposed inquiries into the Australian Opera can be nearly broad enough. I believe not only that there are very important basic matters of principle and policy to be discussed but also that there are financial matters which need very rigorous scrutiny. I believe that any inquiry into the Australian Opera must be able to deal with questions relating to taxation, to the sending out of the country of large sums of money which may or may not be exempt from taxation and possible financial conflicts of interest within the Company and within the Board of the Company. I want to draw attention to what I think, after the research I have done, is an admirably balanced report. I refer to an article by Maria Prerauer which appeared in the  Australian  of 1 1 August 1979. 1 shall readjust a few small sections of the article 'What's gone wrong at the Opera '. It states: 
Traditionally opera is a bloody art, on stage and off. The stab in the tenor's back while the prima donna goes mad to waltz-time is nothing compared with the dagger between the general manager's ribs after the curtain falls. Metaphorically speaking, of course. 
The article continues: 
Peter Hemmings has said that he would like to talk about the circumstances which led to his going but a clause in his contract forbids it. Charles Berg - 
He is the  Chairman,  refuses categorically to comment. 
-Exactly. The article continues: 
In the words of a member of the company, 'It seems like a conspiracy of silence. It 's all being run as a private club. ' 
But $3,500,000 of public money is involved in running that private club and I am very much concerned about that. The article states further: 
So why should the board disregard the advice of its general manager? And then, when it came to the crunch, even the general manager himself? The answer is Dame Joan Sutherland- indirectly, Australia's foremost diva is married to Richard Bonynge and as the  chairman  of the board once admitted, 'We just can't afford to lose her. We can't take the risk. ' The members, or most of them, appear to live in constant fear that if they do not allow Richard Bonynge to carry out his own plans he will depart taking their star with him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
Has the Department of Social Security undertaken a review of pensioners' telephone rental concessions. 
If so, has the review resulted in any pensioner having his or her entitlement to a concession removed if a child or other resident is earning as little as $80 per week whether or not such a person makes any contribution to the cost of the telephone. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the incidence of deafness in the Australian community and what is the relative incidence among adult (a) males and ( b) females in each State. 
Has research been conducted on the incidence of deafness among Australian farmers, if so, what was the nature of the research and how does the incidence of deafness in Australian farmers compare with that for adult males. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Further to the question asked by the honourable member for Banks, I ask the Minister Were the hulls of up to three patrol boats laid in Australia some months before the launching of the British prototype? Was the decision to begin construction of the Australian boats made before the British prototype was launched and proved? Finally, is this an example of standard practice of project management under the defence policies of the present Government? 
-I take the opportunity in this debate on the report of Estimates Committee B to draw attention to some of the disadvantages that are felt by the people in the western suburbs' of Melbourne. There is very clear evidence in the west of the metropolitan area of Melbourne of the inferior supply of services of various kinds which puts the citizens of that area at very great disadvantage. I believe that one of the problems of the philosophy of this Government has been that because it takes an essentially competitive view of the market and the way in which politics works, it takes the view that life is really divided into winners and losers and that the race is always to the swift and the battle to the strong. If the areas in the western suburbs of Sydney or the western suburbs of Melbourne happen to be represented by the Labor Party, part of the penalty the people pay for voting for the party that loses the election is that they will not receive the quality of services that will bring them up to the standards that are commonplace and which are generally expected in the eastern suburbs. 
I am very conscious of the fact that in the electorate of Lalor which represents seven substantial communities and four smaller communitiesthree of them completely rural- the services are manifestly inferior to those in the rest of the metropolitan area. It does not matter what test is applied. For example, in the provision of dental services there are six times the number of dentists in the eastern suburbs that there are in the western suburbs. On educational retention rates or the number of people who complete the Higher School Certificate in the western suburbs compared with the eastern suburbs, one finds discrepancies of the order of one to six. For every one student in the electorate of Lalor who completes his Higher School Certificates there are six in an electorate such as Kooyong or Chisholm. I daresay that even if one went down as far as 
Isaacs the discrepancy then would be of the order of one to four. 
I have used this very striking illustration before. Let me compare two suburbs that are equidistant from the centre of Melbourne. For example, the city of Sunshine in the west and the city of Camberwell in the east are equidistant from the centre of Melbourne. The populations are approximately equal. Camberwell has a very effective and highly co-ordinated transport system. It is an affluent area with a high proportion of cars to each family. Nevertheless, it is an area that has a very good tram system, a very good bus system and a very good train system. It has an excellent transport system which is thoroughly integrated into the metropolitan area. But if we look at the city of Sunshine, exactly the same distance away, we find that there is one tram line, which goes along I suppose for a few hundred yards right at the eastern border of the city, and one train line running through but there are no co-ordinating transport systems. 
A statistic which never ceases to amaze me is the number of teachers in Camberwell compared with the number of teachers in Sunshine. One finds this extraordinary statistic: In the city of Camberwell there are 2,500 teachers on the electoral roll whereas in the entire western suburbs of Melbourne, in the entire western third of Melbourne, the total number of teachers is only 1,600. Of course, that includes very many more metropolitan areas than just one. What that suggests, as must be patently obvious, is that we do not live in an egalitarian society in any sense; we live in a hierarchical society. In every profession, in every association, there is a distinct hierarchy and in Melbourne one finds that the apex of almost every hierarchial pyramid is found over in the eastern suburbs. It is only the lower slopes that are over in the western suburbs. I am sure that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  could confirm, very adequately and eloquently if he had the chance to speak again, that exactly the same phenomenon obtains in the western suburbs of Sydney. I do not believe the situation is worse in Sydney, but it really is pretty bad. There is an expectation of failure built into the educational system in the west. It is almost taken for granted that the people who go through the school system in the western suburbs are going to get only comparatively menial jobs. It is taken for granted that very few of them will complete their secondary education. It is taken for granted that only a handful of them will go on to any kind of tertiary education. 
-I will refer to that question in a minute. I remember one of the most disgraceful documents ever to appear and to be produced by any group under government auspices. It was the report of the committee on the fourth university which was set up a few years ago. It was clear that demographically there was a very large potential catchment area in the western part of Melbourne which would make it possible to maintain a tertiary institution. What happened was that they used exactly the same kind of argument that the sociologists in England used to use in the 1930s when they discussed that vexed question with which the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  would be familiar- whether flats for the working class ought to have bath tubs in them. They said: 'No, they would not know what to do with bath tubs if you gave them to them. They would use the bath tubs for storing coal. Therefore it is pointless providing a service for which there is no demonstrable need '. What the people on the fourth university committee did was to look at the situation in the western suburbs of Melbourne and say: Well look, there you are. There are very few people who are going on to university in that area. Therefore, there is no demonstrable need to provide services. Therefore, if we are going to provide a fourth university for Victoria, it certainly will not be in an area where there is low need'. In other words, what they have done is create an educational system in the western suburbs of Melbourne that is almost completely divorced from the educational structure to the east and the south east. 
That disparity is a very tragic one which I believe creates a great deal of social and economic division. The result is, of course, that if one happens to live in Camberwell or Malvern or in any of the suburbs of the east of Melbourne it is taken for granted that there is a very high chance, a very high probability, that one or more of one 's children will complete their secondary education and will go on to tertiary education. That is regarded as the norm and the people who do not follow that pattern, who drop out, are more or less regarded as exceptional. In the west there is the complete inversion of that situation. I say to my colleagues from Queensland that it is a very similar situation in rural areas where it is comparatively unusual to find that people go on to university. 
Yes, there is a university at Townsville. That is to be commended. I hope that if Queensland ever joins the Federation we will have a much closer relationship with it in the future. We find that in the entire western area, in that western third, there is only one independent tertiary institution and that is the Footscray Institute of Technology- a very fine institution indeed. But it is the only one. It stands out like granny's tooth because it is the only one in the entire area. It is true that a couple of departments of Melbourne University connected with veterinary science and agriculture are located in my electorate but, on the whole, there are very few opportunities for further education in the west. So what we get is a selffulfilling prophecy. People say: 'We do not need services in the west, therefore they are not provided. Because they are not provided, there is very little demand'. So it goes on endlessly. I think that we ought to be doing far more towards providing further and better facilities, particularly for education in the west. 
asked the Minister for Foriegn Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 215 concerning cultural agreements  (Hansard,  5 April 1978, page 1060). 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Since the establishment of the Australian Opera, who have been the (a) musical directors and (b) General Managers (or chief administrators, however described) indicating in each case the period served in office and the circumstances of their removal. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
Following his answer to question No. 2460  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1686) which firms in Australia (a) market, (b) manufacture and (c) import heat pumps, and under what brand names. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, notwithstanding the inquiry to be chaired by  Dr K.  R. McKinnon into the funding of opera in Australia, in the opinion of this House a judicial inquiry should be held into the recent operations of the Australian Opera, the specific terms of reference to include: 
1 ) The extent of Commonwealth funding for the Opera and the Opera Orchestra and the beneficiaries of this funding; 
The existence of and/or extent of tax avoidance schemes for the benefit of members which involve the export of moneys to Switzerland and other foreign countries under circumstances that minimise liability for taxation; 
Financial relationships between performers and Board members; 
The propriety of allowing an organisation which is a beneficiary of Commonwealth funding, based on taxation, to permit possible tax avoidance; and 
The reasons for the removal of successive General Managers, the terms and conditions of their employment, including prohibition of the right to discuss matters of public policy concerning the Opera. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the film Warm Blood on White Ice and the book  Seal Song  produced by Brian Davies, Executive Director of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, to direct attention to the annual slaughter of adult and baby harp and hood seals in the north and north east of Canada. 
Is it a fact that several European nations have legislated to ban the importation of baby seal products in order to destroy the economic base of this industry. 
Have representations been made to the Australian Government to impose similar bans; if so, what has been the Government 's response. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question N 340 on trade agreements  (Hansard,  26 May 1978, page 2636). 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Will the Attorney-General bring up to date the Minister for Foreign Affairs' answer to question No. 120 concerning the steps being taken to ratify the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 570). 
-There are dangers in the sub judice rule being read too widely. The only way in which  Mr Speaker's  ruling can be changed is by carrying the motion moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  We must keep some balance between the need to preserve and protect the rights of a defendant to a fair trial and the need, no less grave, to maintain the right of the Parliament to scrutinise and attack the conduct of Ministers where their conduct has some bearing on a legal proceeding. Let me illustrate the way in which such a danger could arise. A Minister could breach the law in some way which was directly relevant to his ministerial office. He would be open to political attack but would also be potentially a subject of prosecution. In such a case the Parliament could be silenced if a private prosecution a la Sankey was initiated. If this became common practice we could have every major Minister excluded from political criticism in this forum because the sub judice rule could be applied in respect of a series of private prosecutions against Ministers. A ministry which was in serious trouble might have several Ministers deeply involved in matters which were before the courts- not personally but, for example, as in this case, the so-called Greek conspiracy case. We would have the absurdity then that the greater the mess the Government was in the less it would be possible for the matters in which it was involved to be ventilated in this House. 

 Mr Speaker, I think the happiest way out of this motion would be for you to reconsider the ruling that was given earlier. Even if the debate were adjourned briefly, that would enable the matter to be resolved gracefully. I believe that where there is a possibility of a grave interference with the right of the subject so far as his trial is concerned, the sub judice rule is very important. But there is also the right of this Parliament to be heard in a free and untrammelled way. I think the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is at the table, was very selective in his reading of page 427 of Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice.  What he failed to point out with regard to what May said about the sub judice rule on page 427 was:   in exercising its discretion the Chair should not allow reference to such matters if it appears that there is a real and substantial danger of prejudice to the proceedings. 
In my submission not one word was said by the Minister that suggested that if the Deputy Leader of the Opposition were able to proceed with his motion there would be that grave danger that the prosecutions would be aborted, for example, or that the people charged would be prejudiced so far as a fair trial was concerned. I urge the House to consider very carefully the consequences if, every time there is an opportunity, we limit the possibilities for this House to act. So recently, for example, we had the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. It was a matter of saying: 'We give away our powers somewhere else'. I am concerned that we may find that the Parliament says: 'We give away our chance to ventilate important matters that involve policy matters, not just the liberty and freedom of individuals who may or may not be charged'. We are not concerned in this case with what the accused are doing. That is a matter for the court. What we are concerned with is what the Ministers are doing. 
The Ministers are not before the court. The Ministers are not on trial in a juridical sense but they are on trial - 

 -Mr Speaker, I believe that what I am saying is completely relevant. 
-The question involved in your ruling and the reason for the dissent from your ruling is the argument that your ruling on sub judice effectively gelds the House. It prevents the House from carrying out its constitutional responsibility to ventilate matters of public policy where the activities of Ministers and people acting under ministerial direction are concerned. That is the issue. I believe, with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  that in drawing the sub judice rule so wide you have effectively diminished the power of this Parliament to carry out its responsibilities. 
I direct the attention of the House, both in sorrow and in anger, to the problem of securing adequate media coverage for the operations of Parliament and its members. As a working member of the Australian Journalists Association I have sympathy and understanding about the difficulties of rendering both justice and mercy to members of parliament. I freely admit that no media outlet could devote adequate space to the activities of 124 members of the House of Representatives and 64 senators and expect to stay in business. Nevertheless, I think that many membersperhaps most- are victims of selective trivialisation in which the small number of media reports on our activities often put undue stress on superficialities. Let me illustrate by reference to my own experience. 
Between February 1978 when I took my seat in this place and 25 October 1 979 I had made a total of 112 speeches and had received answers to 193 questions. Very few indeed were reported and almost invariably the ones reported were those on the least significant issues. If 1 80 serious questions are ignored and 13 relatively trivial ones are extensively reported it is hardly surprising if we are widely regarded as lightweights. I think it was Mungo Maccallum who wrote somewhere that politicians in Australia occupied a place in public esteem somewhere between drug pushers and child molesters. The media appears singularly reluctant or ill-equipped to deal with complex issues unless they involve personal confrontations or controversy- for example, when allegations of impropriety are made. To illustrate this point I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  an article I wrote on this subject for the  Canberra Times  on 8 October 1 978 headed: 'How can we get the media to look beyond the trivialities?' 
Leave granted. 

 The article read as follows- 

-This raises the whole problem of directing public attention to the highest common multiple through media which, almost inescapably, is aimed at the lowest common denominator. What is more serious is that many major issues are ignored and this failure has damaging effects on the quality of information and informed debate in the community at large. The  Australian Financial Review  has a very high reputation as a newspaper of record which employs very able journalists and presents a wide coverage of foreign and local news. But as my own experience suggests, it has its blind spots. There are certain issues that it simply will not touch and a number of people, including me, whom it will not report. To the  Australian Financial Review  I am a non-person, well down its memory hole. The  Australian Financial Review  exhibits a complete lack of interest in the possible social impact of technological job displacement. It prints, at length, enthusiastic endorsements of the new technology both in feature articles and editorials, denouncing its unidentified critics as Luddites and at the same time ignoring the possibility that a cogent and literate argument can be put against the doctrine of technological determinism. I have written letters to the editor of the  Australian Financial Review  several times, without any being printed. None has received the courtesy of a reply. I have faithfully sent copies of all my major papers and speeches on the impact of technology on the Australian work force- dating back to 1971- to the Australian Financial Review, without reply. But surely to report only one half of a debate is to create, consciously or unconsciously, the impression that there is only one intellectually respectable position to take, for example, on the adoption of labour displacing high technology. I think that is an indefensible position. Imagine a tariff debate for example, which suppressed the protectionist case and failed to put the other side. 
On 3 1 October I wrote a 17 paragraph letterfor publication- to the editor of the  Australian Financial Review.  I conceded that the letter was a piece of special pleading but pointed out that the  Australian Financial Review  had completely ignored the 20 or so speeches I had made in this House on the subject of post-industrialism and the post-service economy, numerous papers for seminars and my 64-page submission to the Myers Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia- CITCA- which was the only one made by any of Australia's 796 members of parliament. Not one word of this work has ever appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  I seek leave to incorporate my letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 31 October 1979 
To the Editor, 
-I sent the letter by priority paid mail, and it did not appear. Some days later I sent a moderately worded telegram to the editor asking whether he intended to print the letter. Later that day I received a telephone message. The letter had been rejected because it was too long. One could go further and say that the whole topic had been regarded as too complex and too critical of an established position taken by the newspaper and its writers. But I believe that the  Australian Financial Review  betrays its reputation as a newspaper of record with a moral obligation to scrutinise important contemporary issues in depth. It has failed to do so. There are few things more discouraging to parliamentarians than to find that the quantity and quality of reporting is often in inverse relation to the seriousness of the matters debated. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
What research is being carried out in Australia into the possibility of producing hydrogen as an energy source by electrolysis. 
2 ) By whom is any research being carried out. 
What is the comparative cost expressed in percentages of the energy required for the electrolysis which would produce the hydrogen. 
What work is done to examine the practicability of hydrogen-fuelled vehicles and to estimate what additional safety hazards would be caused by using hydrogen instead of motor spirit or liquefied petroleum gas. 
I wish very briefly to draw the attention of the House, before the  Deputy  Whip comes in with his blunt instrument, to a funding problem that relates to the superannuation requirements of the State College of Victoria. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will appreciate that the State College of Victoria is, in a sense, a federation of teachers' colleges in Australia with the status of colleges of advanced education. Under the Victorian scheme the superannuation payments made by the Government of Victoria were at a rate higher than the superannuation commitments made by the Commonwealth Government to institutions in other States. This places the State College of Victoria in an excruciatingly difficult position with regard to future commitments to staff. It is not in immediate need of funds because it is not anticipated that there will be a large number of retirements for several years. 
However, there is an extremely complicated predicament in that in 1981 the amount needed to meet superannuation costs will be $737,000 but, assuming a 10 per cent inflation rate over the consecutive years, by the year 2002 the College will need $58,462,000. It really has enormous problems in maintaining the level of its superannuation commitment. As I understand it, the matter has been taken under advisement by the Tertiary Education Commission and so on. I think that this is a very important matter that needs to be directed to the attention of the Government, namely, that the College does need some firm commitment about where it is going. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Is he able to state what is the total annual per capita energy usage in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) Australia, (d) Sweden, (e) France and 
Canada. 
-There is a popular stereotype that Parliament is a gladiatorial arena bitterly divided on party lines and that partisanship is so intense that every piece of legislation is contested and forced to a division and that only polar extremities are expressed in debate. There is, of course, an element of truth in every stereotype, but it should not be exaggerated. It is the public, highly exposed, element of our political activities in the Parliament. But there is another element in the parliamentary system which is not yet as important as what goes on in the chamber but which is growing in importance, and that is the parliamentary committee system. Committees meet both in public and in private. They take evidence in a quasijudicial fashion, on oath, in a style similar to that of a royal commission. While members are all nominated to the committees by their parties and they retain the political commitments that they display so vociferously in debates in the chambers of the House of Representatives and the Senate, nevertheless when they take part in committee deliberations there is little, if any, evidence of party division. I doubt whether the witnesses who appear before committees such as the Joint Committee of Public Accounts would necessarily be aware of our political allegiances at all, judging from the way the questions are put. Certainly in my two years on the Public Accounts Committee there has never been a decision based on party lines. There have occasionally been differences of opinion but these have sometimes involved members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party on one side and members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party on the other side. 
Committee work is both exhausting and exhaustive. The Public Accounts Committee probably has the heaviest work load of any committee in the Parliament. Certainly I would have thought that it has the heaviest work load of any committee in the House of Representatives. The Committee is able to sit throughout Australia. Many on-site meetings have been held outside Canberra. That means, of course, that we meet very often, not necessarily on sitting days. Some of the matters examined have been of the greatest complexity, notably the on-going inquiry into the use of automatic data processing or ADP in the Commonwealth public sector, on which two reports have so far been published- No. 174 on the acquisition of systems in the public sector and No. 175 on the Mandata project. Still more reports on ADP are to be produced by the Committee. The Public Accounts Committee is not one on which members win a great number of friends. Certainly they do not win a great number of friends in Canberra or in the Ministry. For a party in opposition the latter is perhaps no bad thing. But I can imagine the difficulties faced by some members of the Government parties. Nevertheless, if the committee system is to work properly there must necessarily be some degree of confrontation between the committees and the Executive. 
It is striking that in the United Kingdom the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee is invariably a member of the opposition party. If there is a Conservative government in Britain, as at the moment, an opposition member is  chairman.  In Australia we have had a different tradition. The chairmanship has always been held by a member of the government party. There are certainly no direct rewards- there may be some penalties- for being on the Public Accounts Committee. Nobody ever won a vote in a preselection ballot or out in the electorate at large because he had done valuable work on any parliamentary committee. Committee work is the invisible part of the parliamentary iceberg. In future committee work may prove to be the most important work done by non-ministerial members. 
-Perhaps there is something in that. In the case of members of the Labor Party it would have to be the Order of Australia, but in the case of the honourable member for Holt an imperial honour would be richly deserved, perhaps half on a recommendation from Great Britain and half on a recommendation from Australia. 
If the Westminster system is to survive- that is by no means certain at this stage of our political development- it must depend on two elements. Those two elements are 'disclosure' and 'accountability'. A parliament cannot work unless it has access to the facts and unless it knows the truth. Ministers, even the Minister at the table, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who is a man of extraordinary candour at times, particularly when he is talking about the Liberal Party in Victoria, have to recognise that the Parliament cannot work unless there is a full and candid disclosure. When mistakes are made they have to be freely acknowledged. There also has to be accountability.  President  Truman had a plaque on his desk which read 'The buck stops here '. That means that ultimately if anything goes wrong the blame, broadly speaking, will not be taken by public servants who are guaranteed protection through the Public Service Act and other social welfare benefits. The blame has to be taken by the Minister. If something goes disgracefully wrong it is the Minister who ought to get out; it is the Minister who ought to be censured. 
We live in a period of extraordinary complexity. One of the reasons it is so difficult for committees such as the Public Accounts Committee to operate effectively is that we hardly know where to start. There are many hundreds of qangoes or quasi autonomous national government organisations- we are not sure of the exact number but there appear to be about 260- quite apart from the 31 departments. We never know whether in many of these 290-odd entities there may be many skeletons rattling behind the doors. One never knows where to find the right key to apply to the appropriate door so that the bones can fall out. Ministers no doubt live in dread that those doors will be opened but they hope, too, that the sheer pressure of business will make it impossible to examine properly what is going on inside government. 
I must say that I am heartened by this legislation. It is the most encouraging piece of legislation put before the Parliament this month. Perhaps it is the most encouraging piece of legislation to be put before the Parliament this year. The reason is that it is a small but encouraging increase in the 'fight back' capacity of the Parliament in its never-ending struggle against the Executive and the bureaucracy. I do not want to traverse some of the past legislative horrors. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would ruthlessly pull me up if I attempted to do so. We have seen some bad examples in the recent past when the Parliament has divested itself of power and said: We are prepared to give power to other peoplethem'. The Parliament will have less and less power in particular areas'. Here is one example of where the Parliament is exercising ' fight-back ' capacity. It is saying: 'We want to strengthen the power of the Public Accounts Committee to report back to the Parliament'. Whilst no doubt there will be joy and singing in heaven when the legislation is finally carried, I do not know whether there was really a great deal of joy in the Cabinet room or the Public Service Board. But it is very important that this Parliament show that it does have an effective 'fight-back' capacity so that we can report to the Parliament and Parliament is not seen simply as a kind of a rubber stamp organisation which is here for the purpose of docilely agreeing to every piece of legislation that is brought down by the Government. I direct attention to some of the deathless prose in our 175th report, which perhaps has not been as widely read as it ought to have been. On page 4, for the benefit of those who are listening at home on their crystal sets and following the text of our report, we said: 1.18 The Westminster concept of ministerial responsibility evolved at a time when government operations were much more simple and it was possible for a diligent minister to comprehend the full range of activities of his department and take full responsibility. The vast increases in complexity, sophistication and the increase in the volume of work in the last decades have put the Westminster tradition under severe stress. 1.19 This makes the need for scrutiny by parliamentary bodies such as the Public Accounts Committee even more important and reduces the justification for failure to provide relevant information under the excuse of privilege where documents relating to Cabinet submissions or other interdepartmental activities are denied. We do not accept that a general embargo should be placed on the access to all material needed in the preparation of Cabinet submissions. An extension of this principle would make the work of this Committee- or even the Parliament- impossible. 
I put it to the Minister at the table, the Minister for Transport, that there are times when committees like this are important to protect the Minister against himself; to protect him so that he is fully aware that there is a different point of view, perhaps an adversarial point of view, from his Ministry. The original concept of ministerial responsibility to which we refer, when it was possible for a Minister to comprehend everything that was going on, now seems a very long time ago. I remember reading in one of the biographies of Lord Palmerston that he told his ministerial colleagues when, I think, he was reelected as Prime Minister for the last time, in 1 859, that he thought that within the next seven years- British parliaments at that stage were elected for seven-year terms- Parliament would have exhausted its legislative options; within five or six years there really would be nothing left to legislate on; Parliament would have legislated on all the matters that a government could conceivably deal with. Of course, Palmerston is not exactly vindicated by history. We now deal with legislation at a very rapid rate, and I imagine that by the end of the year more than 200 Bills will have been carried. 
We also need to remember that the Public Accounts Committee which has the power of scrutiny, is only one of 17 committees on which members of the House of Representatives take part. The Public Accounts Committee has a much wider range than any of the others because, after all, the key to all government administration is the spending of money. We are conscious that in the curious system we have in Australia the Budget is responsible for only 40 per cent or 41 per cent of the annual expenditure and the remaining 59 per cent or 60 per cent of government outlays is provided for under permanent appropriations. This is not something that the House of Representatives and the Senate can be expected to scrutinise year in year out. It cannot do it on every sitting day of the year. Many pieces of legislation have to be pushed through. The result is that it is essential that the Public Accounts Committee be given all the possible assistance. It should not just be supported by legislation but also it should have some kind of recognition in the electorate of the work that it is doing. That work is being done, as I have mentioned before, on a bipartisan basis. 
There has been an element of congratulation in some of the earlier references to the Public Accounts Committee. I acknowledge the role of the  Chairman,  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  and his work in inducing the Government to introduce this legislation. It is legislation which essentially is in the interests of the Parliament rather than legislation in the interests of the Government. I commend the honourable member for that. I also commend the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  for his work. I point out that as this is the first time since 1951 that there has been any legislation to amend the Public Accounts Committee Act I can fairly assume that not many of us will still be members of this place the next time that the Public Accounts Committee Act comes up for amendment. I am glad that this Bill is about to be passed. It is a great day for the Committee to see that its powers have been strengthened in the ways that were pointed out in the speech by the honourable member for Bradfield. This is one of those rare occasions when I can emulate the formula that Ministers use to end their speeches and say: 'I commend the Bill to the House '. 
Tonight, in company with the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and  Senator Peter  Walsh, I walked across to the site of the new High Court building, following advice tendered by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Members of this Parliament see the building site every day and have probably come to take it for granted. But I assure honourable members that they really ought to see the building for themselves. I had read criticisms of the cost and style of the High Court building and I went there to some extent, I admit, with a psychological predisposition against it. First, I should say that we had no difficulty whatever in entering the site. We wandered through the building and climbed up to the top floor level. We had a very thorough examination of it. The building is completely open and unguarded and the gates were open. 
Frankly, and I can speak for my colleagues too, we were appalled by the High Court building. It is a monument on such a vast scale, completely lacking in human proportions, that it overwhelms by its vastness, its ugliness and its lack of human spirit. It is a vast example of totalitarian architecture with some elements of the architecture of Hitler's Germany, Mussolini's Italy and Stalin's Russia. Members of parliament ought to inspect it for themselves before any decision is made about the future design of the new and permanent parliament house, otherwise we may find ourselves saddled with a totalitarian monstrosity of a building larger than the Kremlin and the Pentagon and just as dehumanised. It is an awful warning for all of us of official architecture which gets out of hand. 
The High Court building is supposed to accommodate seven judges- it may be nine by the end of the century- and provides space for three courts. I appreciate the dazzling wit of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  but I would rather make my speech unassisted. Courts are not normally intended to be places for mob scenes, but the entrance hall of the High Court building is big enough for a mob scene out of a Cecil B. de Mille film- perhaps a Pharoah's court or an epic of ancient Rome by Federico Fellini. The open space could accommodate 200 families on the basis of space allocated to flat dwellers by the Housing Commission of Victoria. The entrance ramp to the High Court building is broad enough to accommodate an army and Centurion tanks three abreast. God alone knows what it is doing there in front of that building. 
All that is intended is that a bench of three or five judges will sit and determine cases that will be presented to them by highly priced counsel who do not really need to have armed guards coming along to protect them from mobs. I cannot imagine that it is ever going to be a popular place, with people coming from all over Australia to visit it as a tourist attraction. I think it is a bad example of a project which has been allowed to grow without adequate scrutiny of the purposes for which the building was allegedly created by the Parliament. I cannot think of a worse example of the edifice complex that distinguishes many people in our community. I am bound to say that the building seems to be intended as a monument, either contemporary or posthumous, to the learned Chief Justice of Australia. I believe that there has been totally inadequate scrutiny of the whole thing. This is not particularly a partisan political matter and if mistakes have been made by - 
-If mistakes have been made in previous administrations, all right. But that does not mean - 
-Do not be childish. My primary concern at this stage is what is going to happen in the future. It is not a matter of handing out post-mortems about the past. What I am concerned about is what is going to happen to the new and permanent parliament house. It is an omen that we would do well to examine. The High Court building is a monster because it completely lacks the human touch. I think we have to make very sure that we do not fall into the same trap with the new and permanent parliament house. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. It being 11 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in  The Economist  of 18 August 1979, entitled 'Energy adventurers look for a green El Dorado' describing techniques known as Biomass for the conversion of living matter into fuels. 
If so, what work is being carried out in Australia to analyse the economic potential of Biomass. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
What was the Commonwealth subsidy to the Australian Opera for (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78, (c) 1978-79 and what is the proposed subsidy for (d) 1 979-80. 
What is the total anticipated wages bill for (a) the orchestra, (b) the administration, (c) the chorus, (d) featured singers, (e) conductors and (f) other employees (designers, stage hands, set builders, etc.) for 1 979-80. 
What is the total sum anticipated to be paid to (a) Dame Joan Sutherland and (b)  Mr Richard  Bonynge for 1979-80. 
How many performances will be given by the Australian Opera in 1979-80. 
In how many of these performances will (a) Dame Joan Sutherland sing and (b)  Mr Richard  Bonynge conduct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Further to the Minister's answer to Question No. 4528 concerning  Mr Sellwood  *s visit to Malta in June 1975 to discuss social security matters  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 982) did  Mr Sellwood  make a written report on the result of his discussions in Malta; if so, what was the substance of his report and his recommendations. 
What are the outstanding matters of contention on social security matters between Australia and Malta. 
What follow-up action has been taken since June 1975 to enter into reciprocal agreements with Malta on social security matters. 
What approaches have been made by the Government of Malta since June 1975 on the subject. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan in July 1978, and to its recommendations, and in particular to the answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to question No. 4496  (Hansard,  25 September 1979, pages 1 530-1 ) with respect to recommendation No. 1 of the report 
If so, what action is being taken to encourage Asian language training in general in Australian schools and Japanese language training in particular. 
Is he able to say what has been done by State Governments in this respect. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) How many staff and aircrew are employed in Qantas. 
How many staff and aircrew of Qantas are reasonably fluent in (a) French, (b) German, (c) Russian, (d) Chinese, (e) Japanese, (0 Malay/Indonesian, (g) Italian and (h) Greek. 
How many staff and aircrew of Qantas are reasonably fluent in (a) 2 languages, (b) 3 languages, or (c) more than 3 languages. 
What facilities are available for language training for Qantas personnel and are language skills regarded as a prerequisite for Qantas staff and aircrew. 
Is he able to state what proportion of staff and aircrew are bi- or tri-lingual in (a) Pan American Aiways, (b) Lufthansa, (c) K.L.M., (d) Alitalia and (e) S.A.S. 
-May I begin by saying that I have always had a peculiar objection to the kind of rubric that is used to introduce the interaction of a cognate debate. I have always preferred the formula used in the Senate, where the Minister says: 'I suggest that the second reading of these two Bills be debated cognately'. In this House Ministers always inject an element of surprise, as though the idea of a cognate debate had just occurred to them in a great moment of inspiration. These are objectionable Bills, obnoxious in principle and practice, and they ought to be opposed vigorously. The Bills were discussed at some length in another place on 15 November, when seven senators took part in the debate. Unfortunately, exigencies of time on this last day of sitting will prevent the Bills being discussed at length in this place. By arrangement, I understand that I will be the only  speaker  on the Bills. I assure the House that I will not take my full 30 minutes. 
The main purpose of both Bills, the Australian National University Amendment Bill and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill, although it is not obvious from reading the clauses of the Bills, is to dismember and destroy the Australian Union of Students. This is a remarkable example of extreme partisanship, showing how a small sectional group with strong influence within the Liberal Party has been able to exert quite illegitimate pressure on the Government to introduce legislation. In 1 977 the Council of the Australian National University adopted new fee rules which provided for exemption from compulsory membership of and payment of fees to approved student bodies and gave rights of appeal to any students dissatisfied with decisions on these issues. However, this did not go far enough for the youthful Liberal enthusiasts who wanted to attack and destroy university autonomy. 
The objectionable clauses in the Bills are clauses 16 and 19 of the Australian National University Amendment Bill and clauses 5 and 6 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill, which are virtually identical in wording. The clauses tie the hands of the Australian National University Council and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Council by providing that moneys collected by way of fees shall not be made available to any student organisation- the Australian Union of Students is not actually named at this stage- unless 'the Council is satisfied that the governing body of the organisation is representative of the members of the organisation'; and by providing that Councils may not pass statutes to authorise expenditure on 'amenities or services that are not of an academic nature' unless the provision of these amenities will directly benefit the University, the College of Advanced Education or its students, or promote sporting, recreational, educational, social, cultural or post-graduate interests. In other words, funds can be applied only for non-political purposes, using that term in the narrowest sense. 
Let us suppose that the Australian Union of Students tried to organise a Kampuchean relief fund or an East Timorese relief fund. Let us suppose it tried to raise funds for Amnesty International, to mention an organisation in which I know you are interested,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Under this miserable Act, the councils of the ANU and the CCAE would have no power to do that, even though there might be a very strong consensus of support. They simply would have no choice. It is striking, for example, that clause 19 of the Australian National University Amendment Bill and clause 5 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill provide that membership of student unions should not be compulsory. This is an extraordinary example of a piece of legislation which is both superfluous and offensive, because the existing rules of the Australian National University provide that membership of student unions should not be compulsory. Fifteen per cent of the student membership at the ANU is not in the Australian Union of Students. What has really happened is that Government has said: 'No, but they might change their minds. We do not propose to allow the Council of that University to be able to exercise its own judgment as to what it thinks ought to be done. We will make the provision for them in this piece of legislation'. I might say that that is totally contradictory in some ways to the overall objective of the legislation. 
The criticism of the AUS, and it is criticism that might have had a good deal more validity two or three years ago and is less valid now, is that it did not have enough people actively involved in student unions and in voting for the Australian Union of Students. The Government is saying: 'We have a master stroke. We have a wonderful way of resolving that problem. We will cut out compulsory membership of student unions'. Inevitably that will have the effect of reducing the number of people who are likely to want to vote in student union elections. 
The opponents of the AUS claim that the organisation is unrepresentative, and there is no doubt that in recent years it has had a very bumpy record. From time to time various university student groups have withdrawn from AUS. In the case of my own alma mater, Melbourne University, it ceded some years ago and then returned this year when 65 per cent of all students voted to go back into the AUS. Sydney University was another university which withdrew at one stage. Each withdrawal has necessarily made the AUS less, not more, representative. That is axiomatic. As a general principle, I believe that there ought to be a nationwide coalition of student unions. Like Voltaire's God, if there was not an Australian Union of Students it would be necessary to invent one. If students or Ministers research officers do not like the AUS, its leaders or its policies, surely the way to solve that problem is to mobilise for political changes within the organisation. If AUS is thought to be unrepresentative, the answer is to make it more representative, to get more of our 250,000 university students to participate, to run for election, to vote, to argue, and to propose new policies. I would have thought that this is a classic example of a Liberal point of view. It dates back as far as 1 976 when somebody replied to critics who felt that there ought to be more coercive action against student organisations. That person wrote: 
I share the concern of your members that any student body should promote international terrorism and antizionism. These are wholly non-Australian and they are evil concepts. 
However, as within the trade union movement, the cure must originate basically from the members themselves. It is within the students ' unions to rectify the matter. 
It is an important problem and I would be happy to discuss it further. In other days I have participated- successfully too- in the marshalling of student ideas and energies towards the democratic process. 
Again, the same writer stated:  in many . . . cases the fault lies with the failure of the general student body to participate in the election of office bearers and in the general critical comment of the actions of the office bearers throughout the year. If there is to be an elected body of any sort its success or failure will depend fairly heavily upon student participation. 
You would agree with those views,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am sure that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  would also agree with them. He nods assent. They were, of course, stated by  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, who originated this miserable Bill. Rather, he responded to pressure and introduced this miserable Bill. That is the correct way to do it. The worst way, the method adopted in this Bill, is to destroy the AUS, to make it less representative by interfering with the tradition of academic freedom and to prohibit the councils of tertiary institutions from enabling fees to be paid except for very narrow- one might say, almost selfishpurposes confined to 'student welfare', narrowly defined. To give a political analogy, it is as though the Fraser Government decided that it could not win a free election in 1980 against the Australian Labor Party and that the best way to secure its political future would be to pass legislation prohibiting trade unions from making financial contributions to the Labor Party, but by exclusion encouraging trade unions to provide political sustenance to other smaller left wing parties to the extreme. That is a perfect analogy of what this miserable legislation is doing. 
If AUS leadership is to be changed, it ought to be left to the students to do it. If enough people vote in elections this will happen. There is a good deal of strong evidence to indicate that there have been very striking changes in the AUS. Curiously, this legislation is really about two years too late to deal with the situation with which it purports to deal. If reasonable campuses disaffiliate, the AUS must inevitably fall under more extreme influence. This, of course, could come from the Right or from the Left.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude all those provisions relating to student fees and organisations '. 
We believe that one of the most objectionable aspects of this Bill is the way in which the Government has stood over the Australian National University. I shall just quote what the Vice Chancellor of the University said recently. He stated: 
The Government's announcement in mid-year was the first time that can be recalled when a government had announced specific proposals for changes in the University's Act before discussing these with the University itself. The University is dismayed at this proceeding, not only because of the absence of consultation on this point but also because the Government's announcement marks a serious departure from the principle that the governing body of the University should have full responsibility for the determination of policies devised under broad guidelines provided by its Act. 
In order to speed up the process of this legislation I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  item 1 5 of the minutes of the Australian National University Council of 9 November 1979. It relates to the determination of the ANU Students Association payment of outstanding affiliation fees to the Australian Union of Students. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Item15- ANU Students' Association- Payment of Outstanding Affiliation Fees to the Australian Union of Students 
a ) Payment of Outstanding 1977-78 Fees: 
It was noted that the Standing Committee of Council in its consideration of this matter on 12 October 1979 had been satisfied, through the investigations of the General Services Fee Advisory Committee, that there was a liability on the part of the Students' Association to pay to the Australian Union of Students the 1977 and 1978 outstanding fees, and that the legal impediment to payment that had stood during 1977 and 1978 had now been removed. 
In discussion it was suggested that the only test of a legal obligation was whether the Australian Union of Students was competent to sue the Students' Association and to succeed in that suit. 
It was resolved to approve, that in the context in which the Students' Association manages its own affairs, the Association be permitted to use the sum of $5,224.81 from pre- 1 979 fees received in 1979 and the sum of $1,934.44 towards the payment of outstanding 1977-78 Australian Union of Students fees of $ 1 6, 1 25.84. 
Payment of 1979 Fee: 
It was noted that the Standing Committee of Council at its meeting on 12 October 1979 had referred to the Council Tor consideration the matter of whether the Students* Association should be permitted to pay to the Australian Union of Students the Association's affiliation fee for 1979 from the 1979 General Services Fee money. 
It was further noted that the Chancellor had received a letter dated 24 October 1979 from the Minister for Education concerning the ANU Amendment Bill 1979. The Minister had observed, in part, that that section of the Amendment Act dealing with compulsory fees and student organisations had, at the University's suggestion, been made effective from 1 January 1980. The Minister asked that, as the Bill would not be effective until 1980, the University follow the Government's policy as reflected in the Bill in the application of compulsory fees collected in respect of 1979. 
The Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor assured the Council that no undertaking had been given to the Department of Education or to the Minister that the University would treat the disposition of the 1 979 fee in accordance with the prospective provisions of the Government's amendments to the ANU Act. 
The following documents were received: 3029/1979-Paper by the  President,  ANU Students' Association on the payment of Australian Union of Students affiliation fees by student organisations. 3098/1979-Copy of a letter dated 24 October 1979 from the Minister for Education to the Chancellor on Amendments to the ANU Act. 3099/1979-Copy of a letter dated 26 October 1979 from the Chancellor to the Minister for Education in reply to the Minister's letter. 3032/1979-Paper dated I November 1979 by the Assistant Vice-Chancellor on the Bill for an Australian National University Amendment Act 1979. 
Copy of the Second Reading Speech by the Minister for Education on the Australian National University Amendment Bill 1979. 
Copy of News Information Release dated 25 October 1979-Statement by the Vice-Chancellor on Australian National University Amendment Bill 1 979. 
It was noted from the Vice-Chancellor's statement that under the terms of the Bill the University would be prevented from distributing money from the General Services Fee other than for the provision to students of those amenities and services that are not of an academic nature and that are declared by University statute to be amenities or services that are of direct benefit to the University. The Council of the University would be given discretion to approve payments for these purposes to national bodies concerned with sporting activities, to bodies with objectives similar to that which represents Australian university law students, and to a national body representing postgraduate students. However the terms of the Bill would deny to the Council any discretion to approve payments from compulsorily collected fees to a national body representing students in a more general way even where the national body provided particular amenities and services of a non-academic kind which would clearly be of direct benefit to the University and its students. 
In discussion the following comments were made: 
the Standing Committee of Council had been satisfied that the ANU Students' Association had a liability to pay outstanding affiliation fees to the Australian Union of Students; 
the matter of the payment of the 1979 affiliation fee by the Students' Association to the Australian Union of Students should be treated on its own merits and should be decided by the Council without regard to the impending University legislation and the Minister's request; 
3 ) that there was an obligation on the Council to defer a decision on the matter until the final form of the legislation was known and the legislative process completed. A decision on whether the University should apply the legislation retrospectively could then be taken; 
the General Services Fee Statute made by Council on 2 February 1979 which the Governor-General had declined to sign, had set out Council 's views on the allocation of the General Services Fee. That expressed policy should be taken into account before any decision was made by Council in respect of the Students' Association's 1979 affiliation fee to the Australian Union of Students; 
5 ) it was not possible for the Council to make a decision at this meeting in terms of its own preferred principles because it would require the Council to make certain judgments as to whether certain student activities would comply with the purposes of the proposedstatute on amenities; 
the Council should not allow the Minister's views to affect its consideration of the matter unless the University was in breach of some undertaking, implied or express, in the matter; 
7 ) the Students ' Association, as a responsible body, had accorded with Council's direction that no payments be made without Council's express approval to the Australian Union of Students from 1979 General Services Fees money. The Association had set aside the sum necessary to pay the 1979 AUS affiliation fee and it had done this on the assumption that the Council would by now have made a decision in the matter. The Association was concerned about its financial obligation to the Australian Union of Students which it had contracted before the Council had determined its 1 979 fees policy. It considered it should be allowed to honour its commitment to the Australian Union of Students; 
8 ) the Council while directing the Students ' Association to refrain from paying affiliation fees to the Australian Union of Students from the 1979 General Services Fee had not requested the Students ' Association to test the attitude of its members to the question of affiliation to the AUS and had not asked the Students' Association to refrain from accepting AUS benefits flowing from the Association's affiliation with that organisation. Before any decision was reached the Council should investigate whether the amenities and services provided by the Australian Union of Students to affiliates were acceptable to the University under the principles established by Council 's General Services Fee Advisory Committee relating to recognised student bodies within the University. 
It was resolved: 
1 ) to rescind any extant resolution that would prevent the Council from authorising payment of moneys collected from the General Services Fee in 1979 to the Australian Union of Students; 
to request the General Services Fee Advisory Committee, using the principles it had applied already in relation to advice to Council concerning distribution of that fee to recognised student bodies within the University, to advise Standing Committee what payment if any the University should permit those organisations to make from that fee for the purpose of affiliation with the Australian Union of Students; 
that in relation to resolution (2) above, the Council authorise the Standing Committee of Council to act for it; 
to endorse the views of the Vice-Chancellor as expressed in his Information Release, and the Chancellor in his letter to the Minister for Education. 
-I thank the House. I conclude by pointing out that the genesis of this Bill seems to be from  Mr Michael  Yabsley who has an interesting record. He is ex-vice  chairman  of the Australian Students Liberal Federation and a former research officer for  Senator Knight.  He is now operating on a higher plane as private secretary to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom).  He is a vigorous advocate for the Republic of South Africa. In an article on the AUS in the  National Student  of October 1 978 he wrote: 
Liberal students are the unblushing assassins of AUS. 
It is also known that among those organising the campaign have been the Uranium Producers Forum and the Liberal Party organisation itself. 
I think this is a deplorable piece of legislation. It is notorious that student bodies are capable of great variations so far as political philosophies are concerned. There is nothing wrong with that. We would not want them to be locked into positions. Among the revolutionaries who have been thrown up by the Australian Union of Students and its predecessor, the National Union of Australian University Students- for obvious reasons, it could never have had the initials of the Australian National Union of Students- was that terrible revolutionary,  Senator Peter  Durack, the Attorney-General, who is a former president! He no doubt has passed through the revolutionary phase and is now an impeccable conservative. I believe that this is a bad Bill. The Opposition does not propose to force the issue to a division but we want to indicate our very vigorous opposition and, of course, our support for our amendment. It is unlikely that our amendment will be defeated -it might be a pretty close call- judging by the numbers in the chamber at the moment. We strongly oppose the Bill. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude all those provisions relating to student fees and organisations '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to Question No. 4377  (Hansard,  9 October 1979, page 1801) in which he indicated that he was unable to say what was the annual per capita consumption of tobacco in Australia, is he able to say: 
what the annual production of tobacco in Australia was for the years 1969 to 1978 inclusive; 
what quantity of Australian produced tobacco was exported for each of those years; 
what quantity of the annual crop was unused in those years; and 
taking account of the figures in pans (a), (b) and (c) and dividing the final figure by the estimated population in Australia in each of those years would he then be able to provide an answer to my original question; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
Will he bring up to date his answer to question No. 341 concerning Status of Forces Agreements and Reciprocal Claims Agreements (  Hansard, 2  May 1978, page 1663). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Australian citizens who have worked in Italy for a total of 15 years and for whom employers have made contributions to pension funds on their behalf are entitled to receive Italian pensions, even if they are resident in Australia. 
If so, what are the equivalent entitlements for Italian citizens normally resident in Italy to receive Australian pensions. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan in July 1978, and to its recommendations, and in particular to the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to question No. 4496  (Hansard,  25 September 1 979, pages 1 530- 1 ) with respect to recommendation No. 5 of the report 
If so, what action has been taken with respect to recommendation No. 5. 
What Australian primary products have been exported since July 1978. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Is it a fact that there is a 6 months delay on the delivery of personal effects to personnel at the RAAF Base at Butterworth; if so, what measures are in hand to rectify this. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) When was the Australian Consulate-General in Los Angeles established. 
What properties were acquired, either (a) freehold or (b) leasehold. 
Have any of the properties or residences attached to the Consulate-General been disposed of since 1975. 
Were further properties acquired subsequently. 
What profit or capital gain was realised on the properties acquired before 1976 and sold subsequently. 
How does the sum realised for those properties compare with the price paid for properties acquired subsequently, either freehold or leasehold. 
What savings has the Government made on these transactions. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1.979: 
What action is being taken to implement the Horton Report. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
What progress has been made with the (a) draft Convention on Territorial Asylum and (b) question of diplomatic asylum which Australia sponsored at the United Nations General Assembly in 1974 and 1975. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Has he received representations on lowering the excise on low alcohol beer; if so, what action does he propose to take. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
As he has now been able to announce the decisions which the Government has made on his submissions concerning the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections which was tabled on5 November 1975, will he say whether he has yet made submissions on the report which the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries made on 27 February1976. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state which countries have passed legislation that requires (a) consultation between industry/employers and employees/employee organisations and (b) examination of social impact, especially on employment levels, before new technology, especially labour-displacing technology, is introduced. 
Has Australia any comparable legislation; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
With respect to the current release of 16 stamps for Christmas Island in the Famous Visitors series, who (a) designed the stamps, (b) wrote the captions identifying the famous visitors and (c) checked the captions for accuracy. 
Does the caption for the5 cent stamp read 'Admiral Pelham Aldrich, R.N., C.R.V.O.'; if so, what do the initials C.R.V.O. mean. 
Is it thought that the initials C.R.V.O. stand for Commander of the Royal Order; if so, is the correct abbreviation for that honour C.V.O. 
Why were the initials R.N. placed ahead of the other initials. 
5 ) Does the caption for the 8c stamp read 'Admiral of the Fleet  Sir William  Henry May, R.N., G.C.V.O., G.C.B.'; if so, is it a fact that the honour G.C.B. outranks G.C.V.O. and should have been printed first 
Why were the initials R.N. printed first. 
What is the point of listing the decorations, especially if they are incorrectly shown. 
Why does the Admiral of the Fleet in the 8 cent stamp wear a cap denoting inferior rank to the Admiral in the5c stamp. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
In view of the Government's expressed support of work experience programs for young persons, is it possible to arrange work experience attachments of young persons to Commonwealth Departments. 
If such a scheme has not been considered, will he arrange for it to be considered. 
If such a scheme has been considered, is the problem of compensation for injury of attachees one of the reasons for the scheme not having been implemented. 
