I think the policy of the Government in the matters referred to by the Leader of the Opposition is perfectly well known. It has been announced in this place and it has not changed. I would add to that, in case the Leader of the Opposition has forgotten, that we have indicated we support sanctions but would not support the use of force. I would like that to be understood. In regard to the second part of his question, it seems to me entirely hypothetical. I have not seen or heard of a private member's Bill along the lines suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. If a private member's Bill comes up it will be considered according to its content. 
The legislation referred to, as I think the honourable member will see, will give a right to all public servants employed by the Commonwealth and all officers employed in the Armed Forces to retire after having served the required number of years and to take with them the pro rata pension to which they are entitled according to the number of years which they have served. This would not be as great a pension as it would be had the full term of service been carried out in either the Public Service or the Services but would be in the terms of the legislation as presented the proportion of pension which the number of years served would suggest. That being so, then Captain Stevenson, amongst others, would certainly be entitled to that. The legislation must first be passed. But when it is passed, all those who have retired in the categories I have mentioned after 1st January 1970 will get the benefits of the Bill. 
I think the honourable member, if he had bothered to read the newspaper reports of the Premiers Conference or the transcript of the Conference, which was held in public, would scarcely have needed to ask the question he has because be would have got the answer from such reading. We pointed out to the Premiers the difficulties involved and inherent in transference of income tax to State governments and proposed a number of other means by which State government finances could be assisted. I will again not repeat what was said in the GovernorGeneral's Speech but refer the honourable member to that Speech, because there these alternate methods of assisting State governments are clearly set out. I believe that he is right in his assumption that the Constitution is silent on the question of income tax, but I would point out to him that there have been High Court cases on the subject of the right to levy income tax and that the High Court, as the legally and properly constituted interpreter of the Constitution, has brought down judgments which have led to the present situation. The answer to the third question is no. 
The matter of the ILO Convention referred to has not previously come under my attention. It would probably be a matter for the Minister for External Affairs to study and no doubt he can answer the first part of the honourable member's question after that, should the honourable member seek that information from him. The answer to the second part of the honourable member's question is that I would not undertake to set up a commission of the kind he suggests. 
 Mr Speaker,  I am sure that this and other matters concerned with the welfare of primary producers of this country were very carefully considered by the Minister for Primary Industry and indeed by the Government generally since there are, as the honourable member would agree, many advantages enjoyed by primary producers which the other sections of the community do not enjoy. I am talking of taxation concessions and matters of that kind. Having said that, that is not in any way to be taken as indicating that there is not a difficult situation in some sections of primary industry. Indeed, the GovernorGeneral's Speech indicated that the Government would, in conjunction with the primary industry organisations, seek to help primary producers in the future as they have helped them in the past I would not undertake to do what the honourable member suggested, and that is, I gather, to pay a bounty on the export 
I thought that was a bounty. If it is not referring to a bounty then I am not answering the question he asked. I would not undertake to do that by whatever name it were called - that is, a bounty on some exports. 
I have had my attention drawn to the fact that Sydney beaches have been damaged and polluted in the way referred to by the honourable member. I believe that this has come about primarily as a result of a deliberate policy adopted by the previous Labor Government in New South Wales, which quite deliberately indicated, and is on record as quite deliberately indicating, that they wished to dispose of their sewerage by this means and not by treatment. I would be glad to draw the honourable member's attention to that. I have not at this stage myself read any special request for assistance in that direction but 1 did some time ago have a communication from the Premier of New South Wales who indicated that he hoped that the New South Wales Government would be able to receive better treatment at Loan Council meetings, for example in order to enable this work to correct mistakes made by the previous Labor administration to be brought into being. I hope and think that the measures taken to relieve that State and other States, or the measures being discussed to relieve, it of some of the burden of debt - measures being taken to prevent that burden of debt growing - will enable the State Government to tackle this problem more rapidly than they have been able to do in the past. It may be that 1 will get a specific request; it may be that in the last day or so one has come in, but if so I have not seen it. 
The Commonwealth Government and the State governments have entered into an agreement concerning petroleum resources in the sea bed. That is an agreement which has been given legal force and the Government does not propose to run out on the agreement as it has been made. The legislation to which the honourable member referred, the future legislation, will not - and I tell him this again - affect the arrangements made between the State governments and the Commonwealth Government on the question of petroleum from the submerged lands. In reply to the second part of the honourable member's question as to whether the Commonwealth would construct a pipeline to convey natural gas from Melbourne to Sydney, this would be a matter for the States, not for the Commonwealth. I believe that the two State govern ments concerned and the people who will be building the pipeline are in negotiation at the moment as to the construction of that line. I believe that it is best that it should be left to the States to arrange with private enterprise for the construction of such a pipeline and that that will prove cheaper for the people of New South Wales in the gas they get. 
Answering the last part of the question first, my understanding - and it can be no more than an understanding since it is based on my understanding of legal advice - is that the laws in fact have been altered to make an offence of matters which previously the laws did not cover. But I will take up with the AttorneyGeneral the question of whether any further amendment is required in that direction. In relation to the man of whom the honourable member is speaking, there is no doubt, and it is a matter of public record, that he lived with the enemy behind the enemy lines in wartime on an occasion when Australian troops were engaged in that war. There is no question but that he engaged in propaganda activities which were designed to be and which were helpful to the enemy in that time of war, and there is no question but that he visited prisoner of war camps, run in many cases under the most barbarous conditions by the enemy, in which Australian troops were incarcerated. I believe there is evidence that on those visits he engaged in discussions with Australian troops which would be calculated to lower their morale and their belief in the cause for which they were fighting. That is sufficient for this Government to say that we do not believe that man should be provided with a passport, asking Australian posts to assist him, and I see no prospect whatever of that approach being changed. 
 I find it strange to hear the implication in this question from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that Australia should slavishly follow some American suggestion. Whatever the Gates commission may have to say about what it believes appropriate for America and whatever it has to say about what it might believe appropriate for Australia has no significance in this country for this Government. We have been examining for some time the way in which Australian forces can be kept to the level that is necessary for the defence of this country and we have come to the conclusion -I believe the correct conclusion - that the only way that can be done is by the existence of a scheme of national service and we propose to continue this scheme while it is necessary to do so, asI believe it will be for long ahead. 
This matter was examined in some depth by the Department of the Interior and the Minister for the Interior who has responsibility for these matters being brought to the Cabinet.  His  assessments were examined by the Cabinet, and it was agreed by the Cabinet that at this time it was not felt that additional permanent assistance was justified for this purpose, one of the factors taken into consideration in arriving at this decision being the factor that there is a pool of typists and secretaries, as I understand it, available to the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is usually, in times of recess, the only member of that Party here and it was felt that such assistance could be gained by him from that source. 
The Government is aware that there is rural indebtedness. It has increased for a variety of reasons. One reason, which was mentioned by the honourable member, is the drought situation which has occurred in various parts of Australia. Part of the indebtedness has come about as a result of the assistance given by the Government to the rural community to allow it to carry on in such drought conditions. I remind the honourable member that, as far as the Commonwealth is concerned, the assistance is provided in the form of carry on loans and other loans which bear no interest whatever. Surely this is one example of an attempt to help those people who live in rural areas to meet such disasters. Although the loans have to be repaid eventually no interest is charged. The honourable member can be assured that the situation of the rural industries will be constantly in the mind of the Australian Government and that it will do what it can to assist those industries in the situation of falling overseas markets in which they find themselves. One example of that kind of assistance I have already given lo the House. 
The answer to the question, I understand, is yes.  Mr Burchett  has asked for a court of inquiry to establish some charges against him. What those specific charges are I do not know. There is no need whatever for a court of inquiry to examine whether  Mr Burchett  was living behind enemy lines in the course of two wars. There is no need of a court of inquiry for that whatever. There is no need for a court of inquiry to establish the published documents which he has put out - the published reports which he has sent to the Communist 'Guardian' here, which were propaganda designed to assist the enemy, and there is no need for a court of inquiry to establish whether or not he went through prisoner-of-war camps in which Australian troops were incarcerated. That being so - there being no need for a court of inquiry into these matters - these matters are sufficient in the Government's view to refuse him a passport asking Australian officials to assist him. If there are other charges against him - and no doubt there are - they might be appropriate for a court of inquiry but they do not affect the Government's decision which is made on the basis I have put before the House and which requires no court of inquiry to substantiate it. 
The Commonwealth Government will preserve the Customs House in Sydney as a link of some significance with Australia's past. There have been various suggestions made as to what the Customs House could be used for in the future - suggestions that it might be a maritime museum and other suggestions - and these can be examined when the time comes. But a thing of this kind will occur only after the Department has moved from the Customs House. All I can say to the honourable member is that the Customs House itself will be preserved as an architectural link with Australia's past 
The honourable member brought this matter to my attention personally and explained some aspects to me when he did so. I think the ping pong ball valve was associated with a much longer snorkel tube than is usual and this tended in the case of a small child for the child to be breathing the same air over and over again and thus affected by carbon dioxide. It is claimed that one child has died as a result of this. These kinds of snorkels are on sale in a number of sports stores. I am further informed,  Mr Speaker,  that the Professional Divers Association has warned against the danger of this kind of snorkel. I think this fact should be made known to parents in case there is such danger as is claimed. I will talk to the Minister for Health about this matter and see whether he can get some report, some expression of opinion, from the Professional Divers Association, from physiologists or whichever kind of medical practitioners would be interested in this subject, so that perhaps something more finite could be made known to those parents who may be worried about the safety of their children. 
I think the question raised by the honourable member is full of interest, although I would not wish to upset the Joint House Committee by reflecting on the quality of the coffee served in the dining rooms. I did notice the high tribute paid by the Leader of the Opposition to the coffee grown by the Tolai in the Gazelle Peninsula, and noted it with very great interest, but I warn honourable members that it might be some time before such coffee would be available in the dining rooms here because, in spite of the tribute paid by the Leader of the Opposition, there is the slight technical difficulty that no such coffee is produced by the Tolai in the Gazelle Peninsula. 
The Government has already reported to the Australian people that when a further substantial withdrawal of troops from Vietnam takes place - if it does take place - then at some stage during that withdrawal some Australian troops will be phased into it. On 16th December 1969 I reported to the Australian nation in these words, regarding this matter: 
There is no timetable fixed covering at what stage any Australian reductions will be phased into the next United States withdrawal. 
I had previously said that some troops would be phased in during the time of that substantial withdrawal. The situation remains now as it was then, and as it was stated to the Australian people then. 
I will be glad to draw this question to the notice of my colleague the Minister for Health and ask him either to confer with the honourable member or to advert to it in the House and give the House some further information on the difference in the costs concerning whatever that operation was. 
A personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 would like to make a personal explanation because it appears to me that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested - and it was inherent in his remarks - that for some reason I misrepresented him deliberately on the question of coffee which seems to be of so much interest to him. I would wish to make this explanation. If indeed what the Leader of the Opposition now says is true, then we have all been misled by the transcript of his speech to the Tolais and by the reports published throughout all the Territory Press. Indeed, it may well be that the Leader of the Opposition did mean to say cocoa' when he said 'coffee' and, if so, I apologise to him for actually accepting what he said, which was 'coffee'. We will now, if necessary and if it helps the Leader of the Opposition, accept that he meant cocoa instead of coffee, adding merely this, that it is always just as well to have this kind of examination to discover just exactly what it was that the Leader of the Opposition meant when he said something. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
This Bill will fulfil the Government's undertaking to assist the Australian film industry, lt provides for the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation which will administer a fund with an initial capital of Sim, The Corporation will make loans to film and television producers. It will be able to guarantee repayment of loans, including bank overdrafts, made to producers of Aus tralian films. It will be able to join with producers of Australian films under arrangements which will entitle it to receive a share of the proceeds without being liable for any debts which may be incurred. It may also, subject to ministerial approval, participate in the formation of a company for the distribution of Austraiian films. The Corporation will seek to encourage the production and distribution of Australian films of high quality. I should perhaps say,  Mr Speaker,  that when I refer to films of high quality I do not confine my meaning to films of technical excellence or those with an artistic content which could win a festival award, but be commercially unsuccessful. The Corporation will seek to encourage the production of films which are box office successes and which have those excellences of production, camera work and technical presentation which justify the description 'high quality'. 
The fund is intended for investment in films: lt is not intended as a giveaway project, lt indicates our optimism that such investment will be successful in all ways but it is not intended as a vehicle for underwriting the full cost of a film or films. Producers of films will still be expected to have a substantial equity in a film and to show faith in their artistic and commercial judgment, and I hope that distributors will also be prepared to invest, at their judgment, in such enterprises. We believe that after a period of time properly made investments will be returning profits to the Corporation and there will then be no need for the Government to replenish the fund each year. That is our objective and the measure of the scheme's success will be . judged partly on this. 
So we expect profits in money terms but at least as importantly we expect profit in human values. A flourishing film industry in Australia will employ talented Australian writers, artists, directors, actors, musicians and technicians. Many of them have all too often had to leave this country to pursue their chosen careers. Their talents have added distinction to the productions of other countries. But I know many of them wish to return again home. We hope that they will be able to do so as a result of the action here suggested. Further, film and television distributed throughout the world is perhaps the most effective means by which the image of a country can be pro- jected abroad - the most effective means by which the ideas and way of life of a nation can become known throughout the world. We hope this Bill will help Australia in this way. 
It is now apparent that Australian interest and support is beginning to be available for local productions and it is my Government's hope that money provided by the Corporation will act as a catalyst to encourage private capital to invest in Australian productions. In other countries considerable investment in film production is forthcoming from banking and other financial institutions. Let us hope and urge that this support, along with that support from distributors and exhibitors which I have mentioned, will be forthcoming here. 
The corporation will consist of a  chairman  and four other members - each appointed for periods not exceeding 5 years but eligible for reappointment. Members will be appointed from amongst persons of standing and varied experience but without pecuniary interests in the business of making, distributing or exhibiting films, or in a corporation carrying on such a business. The Corporation will be required to report annually to the Minister with appropriate financial statements. The Minister will be required to lay the report and financial statements, together with the report of the Auditor-General, before each House of the Parliament. lt gives me great personal pleasure to introduce this Bill. It expresses the Government's belief that we should devote ourselves not only to building great new factories and smelters, not only to wresting produce and minerals from the earth of Australia, not only to material standards, but also to involvement in and encouragement and development of the Arts. The human values we will thereby nurture, the satisfaction we will offer to individual development, the improvement of- the quality of life are essential for any nation if it is to merit the description 'great*. 1 believe this Bill will help us to attain these aims and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, this matter has been brought up from time to time by the association concerned. I recently gave personal consideration to it. It has been decided that we will make a grant of  $5,000  to the Paraplegic Association to enable it to send a team of paraplegics to Edinburgh to take part in the Paraplegic Games associated with the Commonwealth Games. It is proposed that this grant will be available to the Association every  2  years - it will not cover the full cost but it will assist - when these Games take place, or at such intervals as they do take place. I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that this will be seen as further action by the Government to assist those in our midst who are handicapped. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee which is looking into this question met recently. As I told the right honourable member for Melbourne last September (Hansard, 26th September 1969, page 2157), inquiries are being made about existing relevant legislation in the States and overseas. Consideration of this matter involves die rights of individuals as well as the national interest and 1 would not expect an easy or an early solution. 
I would not say that I believe for one moment that there is a Communist society, or anything approaching it, in Australia. Nor do I believe that those carefully reading the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby would think he was saying that either. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
Well, honourable members opposite would. I do think that he pointed out, as he had the perfect right to point out, that there were significant Communist influences within the trade unions, within the State branches of the Labor Party and generally those organisations 
Opposition members - Oh! 
 Mr Speaker,  in his exercise of free speech, which is now sought to be denied to him, he not only had the right to point that out but to indicate those facts which supported what he had to say, for example, the Labor Party in Victoria appearing to chair a conference which called for mutiny among our troops abroad. Surely these are proper things for an honourable member to say. What has been surprising about this matter,  Mr Speaker,  has been the venom which has been poured out personally against the honourable member rather than any attempt to refute the remarks he made concerning the influence in various sections of Australia. 
I believe that after I have answered the first two parts of the question there will be no need to answer the last, because I do know that  Mr Crawford  chaired this meeting and that this meeting put out a call for mutiny amongst troops in the field. As a result of that the AttorneyGeneral was asked to examine this statement very carefully with his law officers to see whether a charge would lie under the Crimes Act for that. The reports of the law officers on completely legal grounds were that they did not believe it was sustainable in law. Having answered the first two parts, I think the question as to policy does not arise. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to comment not on the large canvas on which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has chosen to speak but on the statement which is directly before us and on which he chose to speak hardly at all. May I in talking of this statement run through the series of events which occurred at this time in New Guinea? The Leader of the Opposition attended a meeting of the Council. In talking to that Council, he made a statement which was untrue, which was damaging to the officer who was charged with a killing which did not take place. I do not say that this statement was deliberately untrue but there can be no question but that it was untrue. Having made to the Council this statement charging an officer with a killing he did not do - the District Commissioner- 
I think the answer to the first question asked of me would be this: The effect it would have, if any, would depend upon the support given to it by Australian people and by those who support it, such as he has described, who are members of the Communist Party, members of Communist Party fronts and a number of members of the Opposition. But even with such leadership as that, I would not believe that there would be great support for such an effort in this country. I can assure the honourable member that the Government, in its approach to these problems, would not have its policy influenced by these kind of demonstrations whipped up by the kinds of leaders to whom he has referred. 
We have not taken any governmental action to ensure that the investment in the Robe River project should be 50% Australian investment. We have been satisfied - and this is what we have asked for - that a 50% interest was offered to Australian shareholders. It is then up to to them to make up their minds on their business judgment whether they believe they should make this investment or whether they should invest their money in some other sphere. Unlike the Opposition, it is not our intention to interfere with individuals or with insurance companies and direct them as to the companies in which they should invest their funds. The opportunity having been offered, the judgment having been made, the requirements of the Government have, in this instance, been met. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the Attorney-General that, so far as his Department is aware, no opinions of constitutional lawyers have been obtained on the matter referred to. 
Governments in Exile  (Question No. 28) 
The following answer to the honourable member's question has been provided by the Public Service Board: 
(a) In the Commonwealth Service the basic entitlement is 3 weeks. Seven day shift workers receive four weeks and other officers and employees in special situations (e.g. those stationed in remote localities) also receive leave in excess of 3 weeks. 
In the N.S.W. Public Servicethe basic entitlement is 4 weeks; 
In South Australia the basic entitlement is three weeks but daily and weekly paid Government employees receive 4 weeks' annual leave; 
In the Public Services of Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia the basic entitlement is 3 weeks. 
In all States (as in the Commonwealth) special grants of additional leave are available to certain officers and employees in special situations, e.g. shift workers, workers in isolated localities, etc 
(a) Three weeks' annual leave for permanent officers in the Commonwealth Service has been the basic entitlement since the first Public Service Act, 1902, and for temporary employees since 1920. Four weeks' annual leave for 7 day shift workers was granted in 1964. 
In the N.S.W. Public Service, the basic entitlement was extended to 4 weeks in 1964; 
In South Australia the basic entitlement was extended to 3 weeks in 1945 and the special grant of 4 weeks to daily and weekly paid employees was made in 1967; 
The basic entitlement was extended to 3 weeks in Victoria in 1S83, Queensland some lime before 1889, Tasmania in 1955 and Western Australia in 1963. 
The Commonwealth Public Service Board made inquiries of the N.S.W. Public Service Board in 1966 and again in 1970 on the effect of the introduction of 4 weeks' annual leave on the number of public servants in New South Wales. 
The N.S.W. Board advised on each occasion that the increased leave was one factor in the representations it has received for increased staff. However, it did not have precise figures to accurately determine the effect of the increase in leave since administrative requirements and staffing conditions vary between departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposals for preservation of superannuation rights as announced on 25th September 1969 will be implemented for members of the Defence Forces by amendment of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1969 to be introduced in this session , of Parliament. These arrangements will apply after the passage of the legislation on and from 1st January 1970. 
I think that in the months ahead the House will be the best judge as to whether the honourable member for Boothby or the honourable member for Hawker is the most impetuous or most immature. I have no doubt whatever as to what the judgment of the House on that matter will be. In reply to the question asked, my attention has not been drawn to the specific quotation made but I would imagine there would be few people in this House who from time to time would not have believed that sub-editors had altered the tone of their remarks or the content of their remarks in a way to misrepresent what was being said. 
Opposition Members - Hear, hear! 
I am glad to hear a number of 'Hear, hears' from the Opposition. I believe it to be true and I believe most honourable members would say so. This may be a matter of opinion. That being true, I would answer the rest of the question in this way. We would not wish to set up any body to interfere with the capacity of a sub-editor, acting according to what he thought was right, to present matters in the way he thought he should present them. Equally we would not wish to interfere with any individual who sought to complain about that I would support the right of the honourable member for Boothby to complain and I believe most honourable members in this House would do the same. 
I think the honourable member for Eden-Monaro displays very considerable lack of knowedge of what he is talking about. In the case of the MLC, to which he referred. the question of Australian investment did not arise; the question that arose was whether we would permit overseas investment to take over one of the great insurance companies in Australia. This has nothing whatever to do with the matter of Australian investment. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
lt has nothing whatever to do with the matter of Australian investment in the way in which the honourable member was speaking. What I meant when I said this,  Mr Speaker,  what I had in mind, was something that perhaps the honourable member had not heard stated before in this House; that was an indication previously by the Leader of the Opposition that he believed that insurance companies should be encouraged by the Government, should be told by the Government where they should invest their funds. They should have some guarantees given by the Government and should have a direction given where they must invest. 
The Leader of the Opposition supports my argument by saying this is what we do for Government bonds. Surely there is an immense difference between a suggestion that a government should move in and tell an insurance company in Australia where it must invest its funds, which we would not do, and a government acting to prevent an Australian insurance company being taken over by overseas interests. If the honourable member cannot see the difference between those two propositions, I cannot help him but the differences are clearly there. 
 Mr Speaker,  this matter has been eagerly supported by the honourable member and by other honourable members from South Australia. 1 am happy to tell the House that arrangements will be made for the Cook cannon which has been retained by the Commonwealth to be made available for exhibition in Adelaide at the time required by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The project will receive consideration under the Commonwealth's $100 million National Water Resources Development Programme along with other projects submitted by the Premier and by other Premiers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government confers with representatives of various national organisations on a regular basis in order to keep itself informed of the views on developments in the economy of those who are actively engaged in commerce and industry. These consultations are not to enable representatives to put views to the Government on the needs and wants of their own particular organisations, and are therefore not analogous to the kind of meeting you suggest. However, Government Ministers have from time to time received deputations representing pensioners in order to hear their views. 
In addition written submissions are received from various pensioner organisations, and indeed from a great variety of organisations, about their needs and wants. These have been and will continue to be given the utmost consideration by the Government in preparing the Budget each year. 
It is not the Government's intention to change the practice of not providing travel expenses to and from Canberra for deputations. 
I am not aware that 4,000 persons in Papua and New Guinea are employed in this way. I would have thought that the question, if it sought to elicit information, might better have been directed to the Minister for External Territories who would know precisely what the situation was regarding those employed in Papua and New Guinea under his administration. 
I am glad to inform the House that all members, senators and their wives will be invited, if they have not already received au invitation, to a number of the functions when  Her  Majesty the Queen is in Canberra. The functions themselves - and I speak now from memoryare the arrival of  Her  Majesty the Queen in Canberra, the opening of the Captain Cook memorial, the reception to be given by the Australian Government in Parliament House on the evening of  Her  Majesty's arrival, the Anzac Day ceremonies, the presentation of new Queen's Colours at the Royal Military College, Duntroon, on the morning of Monday, 27th April, the garden party at Government House that afternoon, and the Royal party's departure from Fairbairn on the morning of Tuesday, 28th- April. I would like to add that because of the significance of this visit it has been decided that there will be an additional visit to Canberra of members' wives in order to enable these ceremonies to be attended by senators, members and their wives. 
Her Majesty arrives on the afternoon of Thursday, 23rd April. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I can confirm that i knew of no such occasion. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am informed that the Actuary is working out the basis needed to be worked out before the legislation can be brought down in this House and that there is - I will not say a difficulty - considerable time required for such action. I had a report on the matter from the Treasurer the other day. That work is proceeding but I could not, at this stage, give a definite indication to the honourable member as to when the legislation will in fact be brought down. The honourable member will recall that I have already informed the House and the country that it will be retrospective to 1st January this year when it is brought down. We will seek to bring it down as quickly as we can but it is an extremely complicated piece of legislation. 
In reply to the first part of the question I would remind the honourable member that the Treasurer indicated not that the economy was overheated but was showing signs of moving in that direction and therefore the attention that was required and the action that was taken was an action that needed to be taken. On the question of petrol as such. 1 am a little surprised that the honourable member who, clearly along with all his Party, wishes to have price controls on everything, should be worried on this case since an application is made to the South Australian Price Controller in this field. This being so - this being the normal practice and this being an application to a man set up by that Government for that purpose - then I see no reason for any action to be taken on behalf of this Government and I am surprised that the honourable member should feel that that was necessary since what he seeks to set up is in fact being followed in this case. 
The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The legislation of two of the States (Victoria and Western Australia) and of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and the Northern Territory now satisfies the requirements of the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others. We have been informed that it is intended that the necessary amendments of the Queensland legislation will be made during the present session of the Queensland Parliament. The remaining States have indicated that they will amend their legislation. So far as the Convention on the Political Rights of Women is concerned, the position remains as set out in the Prime Minister's reply of 29 May 1969. Further discussions took place this month with the States on the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination at the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Officers on Aboriginal Affairs. In respect of the International Covenants on Human Rights, further discussions with the States have been held over pending the completion of consultations with the relevant Commonwealth authorities. 
Servicemen Killed in Vietnam - Estate Duty  (Question No. 60) 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that expenditure in respect of studies by staff employed under the Public Service Act 1922-1968 in 1968 was: 
 Mr Speaker,  it is with deep regret that I have to advise the House of the death in April 1970 of  Mr Jim  Fraser, member for the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr Fraser  was bom in Derby, Tasmania, on 8 th February 1908. From 1927 to 1935 he was a teacher with the Victorian Education Department and in 1935 he took up journalism in New South Wales. In 1941 he enlisted in the 2nd Australian Imperial Force, served in New Guinea from 1942 to 1943, and with the Public Relations Field Unit from 1944 to 1945. He was discharged with the rank of sergeant in March 1946.  Mr Fraser  then joined the Department of the Interior and worked there until he became public relations officer for the Minister for Health in 1948. In 1949 he was appointed private secretary to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and he was also during that time a member of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. 
In 1951 he was elected to the House of Representatives as the member for the Australian Capital Territory and he remained the member for this Territory for 19 years up to the time of his death. In the House he served on a number of committees and was vice-chairman of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. During the time  Mr Fraser  was a member he won a well deserved reputation as a dedicated helper of the citizens of Canberra. He filled the role not only of a member of Parliament but also, as it were, of an ombudsman. He took up the cause of all who he felt had not been treated justly by officialdom and indeed he devoted himself to helping the citizens of Canberra as his major task as a parliamentarian. He, I believe, prevented injustice. He helped people to meet with those officials who could best deal with any problems which they had. The regard in which he was held 

 13667/70-R-[30] 

by the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory was demonstrated when his funeral took place. 

 Sir, I feel that I have personally lost a friend. We lived not far from each other in Narrabundah and on many occasions stood on the same platform, when I was the Minister for Education and Science, at functions throughout the Australian Capital Territory. I knew him reasonably well and I know that there was no meanness or pettiness or spite anywhere about him. Though he was prepared to fight for what he thought was right he was not prepared to bear malice. He will be sadly missed by members of this House. Our sympathy goes to his wife, his son and his family, including his brother, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at me death on 1st April 1970 of James Reay Fraser, a member of the House for the Australian Capital Territory, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  left Australia on 30th March to visit Vietnam and the United States. In Saigon he has had discussions with senior leaders of the South Vietnamese Government and with Vietnamese, United States and Australian officials and Service commanders. On 4th April  Mr Fraser  arrived in Washington to have discussions with the Secretary of Defence,  Mr Laird,  on aspects of the Fill projects and contracts.  Mr Fraser  is expected to return to Australia on 14th April and during his absence the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  is acting as Minister for Defence and will represent the Minister for Supply in this House. 
I also wish to inform the House that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  left Australia on 5th April for Korea and Japan. He will be attending the third annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank in Seoul and will also have discussions in Tokyo with the Japanese Minister of Finance. The Treasurer is expected to return to Australia on 18th April and during  Mr Bury's  absence 1 shall be acting as Treasurer. 
I think it is not inappropriate to describe the tour as a tour of Australia though it could not be described as a tour of the whole of Australia. I would agree with that part of what the honourable member says. I think the honourable member and the House generally will understand the calls that are made upon the Royal family on a tour of this kind and that, though they may well like to attend every part of Australia, it is in the time they are able to make available impossible for them to do so, and their wishes and the requirements of the Royal tour director must be taken into account in this respect. I think I should point out that the Royal family is visiting, not only New South Wales and Victoria, but also Queensland and Tasmania. I am sure that they would regret, as we would regret, that they are unable to visit Western Australia on this occasion, but I trust that the honourable member will understand the reasons for this and will not seek to level any criticism as a result of it. 
In reply to the first part of the question, yes, I am aware that the funds available for war service homes during this financial* year have now been spent. I might point out to the House that during this financial year the Government made available for war service homes a sum of $55m, which is $5m more than the year before. As the honourable member said, this increased amount has already been spent. 
I hear some petulant interjections. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Leader of the Opposition will cease interjecting at the table. 
In reply to the second part of the question, I am aware that there are some hundreds of applicants who have applications for loans for the purchase of existing buildings - existing houses - and these are distinct from applicants for loans for the building of houses. There are some hundreds of these, and as a result of the money voted having been exhausted these applicants who normally would have received the loans for which they have applied in May or June will have to wait until July in order to receive their loans. 
I do not know quite how I can order an investigation into an unsupported allegation from the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party - an allegation which has no supporting evidence whatever. Indeed, I would somewhat doubt whether an allegation of that kind from that source ought to be dignified by an inquiry of this kind; but I would, in view of the question which the honourable member has asked, take this opportunity to suggest to  Senator Keeffe  that he might, in support of this offensive allegation, put forward publicly any evidence he has and name any members of the Federal Parliament to whom he is referring. If he does not do that, the Australian public will be able to judge the force and veracity of what he has to say. If he does make these things public, and I am sure he will not, then I would certainly seek to investigate them. 
A remark from the other side of the chamber suggested that he might be referring to  Mr Wentworth,  the Minister for Social Services. 1 think most honourable members of this House would agree that he has done more to assist the Aboriginal cause than has any other single member of this Parliament since he has been Minister. 
The Post Office is a public utility and it is true, and has been true for many years, that interest is required to be paid on capital invested in this public utility just as it is required to be paid on capital invested in electricity commissions or other public utilities of that kind. I do not propose to comment on the second part of the honourable member's question because, there again, he is relying exclusively on what he has read in the newspapers. 
Commenting on the first part of the honourable member's question, I think, if he casts his mind back, he will recall that I said not that $50m was spent this financial year but that $55m had been made available this financial year as compared with$50m last financial year, an increase of $5m, and that this had been spent.I also pointed out to the House that the exhaustion of this sum during this financial year will. I am informed, have no effect whatsoever on any applicant For a loan who is seeking to build a house- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  you know, for a while there I thought that the Leader of the Opposition was going to say something else reverting to what the Minister for External Affairs had asked him to comment on. 
Yes, I was mistaken. 1 concede that. The answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is: No, I have not been advised of what the Leader of the Opposition claims to be the fact. Nor do I think it has great relevance to the real fact that during this financial year the amount of money made available for war service homes has been increased by 10% over the amount available for the last financial year and that as a result of this and as a result of the great use that has been made of it there will merely be the inconvenience of some 6 or 8 weeks wait for those seeking to buy new homes, which will not prevent them from buying these new homes as is suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. 
by leave - Honourable members will be aware that the Commonwealth and Queensland have agreed to establish a joint committee to investigate the problems of the crown of thorns starfish. The committee will be supported on a $1 for $1 basis by each government. It will report to each government. 
On behalf of the Premier of Queensland and myself I am pleased to be able to announce to the House that the committee will comprise the following experts: 
Commonwealth nominees - 
Professor R. J. Walsh, Professor of Human Genetics at the University of New South Wales (Chairman); 
Professor W. G. H. Maxwell, Associate Professor of Geology at the University of Sydney; 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Two classifications of electorate allowances - city and country - were adopted by Parliament following recommendations of the Committee of Enquiry into Salaries and Allowances of Members of the Commonwealth Parliament in 1955. In its Report, the Committee said, inter alia, 
We realise that there is a difference between the expenses of a city Member who travels his electorate and returns home every evening and a country Member or  Senator who  has hotel bills and extra travelling expenses to meet. (paragraph 37) . . . Travelling expenses withinthe electorate vary widely according to the size of the electorate and the concept of duty of the Member. It is obvious that in a compact city electorate, and even in the average outer suburban electorate, the expenses are not as high as those incurred in a country electorate. We have allowed something for both car and other travelling expenses in our recommendation for an electorate allowance'. (Paragraphs 42 and 43). 
The Committee of Enquiry into Salaries and Allowances in 1959 also recommended two classifications for electorate allowances and this was adopted by Parliament. The Second Schedule to the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1968, listing electorates for which the city rate of electorate allowance is paid, is as recommended by the Committee of Enquiry in 1959. 
The proposed new Second Schedule, which is included in the Bill now before Parliament to amend the Parliamentary Allowances . Act. follows the pattern established in 1955 and continued in 1959. 
I have  been  advised  by the  Public Service Board as follows: 
Three weeks' annual leave has been the basic entitlement for permanent officers in the Commonwealth Service since the first Public Service Act 1902 and for temporary employees since 1920. Four weeks' annual leave for 7 day shift-workers was granted in 1964. 
(a) At the time of Federation the annual leave entitlement for employees of the New South Wales Government was: 
For Permanent Officers - 3 weeks 
For Temporary Employees - One week after I year's service, 2 weeks after 2 years' service, 3 weeks after 3 years' service 
For Ministerial Employees (those employed directly by Ministers) - 1 week. 
At the present time the entitlement is four weeks. 
(a) At the time of Federation the annual leave entitlement of daily paid employees of the South Australian Government was: 
For those employed on a permanent basis - 8 days for skilled workers, e.g. foreman, tradesmen 4 days for unskilled or semi-skilled workers, e.g. labourers 
For those employed on a temporary basis - Nil. 
At the present time the entitlement for daily paid employees of the South Australian Government is 4 weeks' annual leave. 
I think the question could better be answered in detail by the PostmasterGeneral, who would have at his fingertips more up to date information than 1 have. I think the honourable member will realise that in fact this Government has passed legislation seeking to prevent the accumulation of the control of media in this country passing into too few hands. 1 do not have the details in my mind but there is legislation to prevent the acquisition of broadcasting stations and television stations by, let me say, owners who at present have control of some other media. So this in fact has already been done. Perhaps the honourable member might like to address himself to the question of whether he feels it has been done enough, but the fact remains that legislation has been passed and has been in operation for quite a number of years in relation to this matter, and is from time to time used. In regard to the second part of the question asked by the honourable member, that would certainly fall under the heading of a question in relation to policy but I would have great reluctance in accepting a proposition that things which have been legally and properly done in Australia should be by a government declared to have been illegal and that people should be prevented from continuing to do what was legally possible for them to do at the time. So as for the second part of the question, I would regard that as the approach which the Government would make. As for the first part of the question, action has already been taken to prevent too much accumulation in these fields. 
The Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Interior took the first opportunity available to them to report to the Cabinet on the meeting which they attended in Melbourne to which the honourable member has referred. So, that is the answer to the first part of his question. 1 think that the honourable member perhaps will bear in mind also that, though this is not to be regarded as an answer to the problems that were raised - and answers are not easy to find, as he would know - at least the Government has brought to the attention of the Reserve Bank the fact that there is no overheating whatsoever in the rural sector of the economy, that there is a lack of demand there and that, therefore, that area should be treated in regard to interest rates in the way which will not add to any economic demand and will not add to any burdens on people who are at the moment in such a difficult situation. 
For the rest of the honourable member's question, the matter of attempting to see that a proper assistance is given to those who grow wool, for example - a proper assistance, not just a palliative - is, the honourable member can be assured, high on the table of consideration by the Government and that being a matter of policy, he will in due course discover what we regard the answers to be. 
I am indeed aware of the assistance, in various forms, provided to those who have been seeking for oil throughout Australia - assistance provided by this Government and which at the time was attacked but which led to the discovery in Australia of oil resources which now meet some 60% of our requirements. This is of enormous assistance both to our defence and to our economy and, I think, is a monument to the wisdom of the assistance provided in order to enable oil to be discovered. But,  Mr Speaker,  the House will know that it is not sufficient merely to discover oil. The Government also has a policy which requires that oil, when discovered in Australia, will be used in Australia because it is quite clear that it might be to the interests of overseas oil combines to leave Australian oil in the ground even after discovery. So that is a second requirement that this Government has had always. That being so, it is necessary that the refineries in Australia should be required to treat the Australian oil, that they should be required to take the Australian oil, and that they should be required to take it at a price which permits those who discover oil in reasonable quantities to be able to make a profit out of the oil that they have discovered. Otherwise, of course, there would be far less requirement on anybody to search for oil and the need we have to be self-sufficient would be thereby damaged. These are the legislative provisions, I take it, to which the honourable member is referring, and I see no reason whatsoever to change them in any way because I believe it necessary that we should look for oil; there should be incentives to look for it; we should, when it is discovered, see that it is used and refined in Australia; and we should, in order to attain those objectives, see that those who discover it know they will be able to sell it commercially. I see no reason at all to change any of those requirements. 
As for the price to which the honourable member referred, it has already been pointed out to the House that the South Australian Prices Commissioner - and this I should have thought would have fallen right into line with the thinking of the Opposition - after such examination is the authority which decides the price, whether an increase in price is justifiable, and if so what that increase should be. 
 Mr Speaker,  war service homes are provided for those who have returned from serving this country in time of war. It would, I think, be very difficult - and it could lead to great injustice - to establish preference within the war service homes scheme for those who have served this nation in one war rather than in another. I think, if the honourable and gallant member reflects on this, he will see that it could indeed cause injustice if those who had fought for this nation in Korea or in Malaya during the emergency or, for that matter, who suffered with him in Changi during the Second World War should be put in a category, as it were, of second preference. I think that the suggestion could lead to grave difficulties. 
The State of Queensland has indeed been seriously affected by drought for several years past. The Commonwealth, as the honourable member will know, has provided very considerable assistance to Queensland for this burden of drought which it bears and I think that it is now estimated that for the full financial year 1969-70 the provision will be some Si 5m. The Premier of Queensland has written in suggesting some changes in the assistance which is being given and some extra assistance which might be provided. This letter came to me. It was examined by the Treasury which made a report upon it. The report has now been sent back and it is and will be treated as a matter of urgency. 
The honourable member will know that local government has always been a field which has been dependent upon State governments. What we will do in our relations with State governments I have no doubt will result in more money being available to State governments for them to spend according to their own judgment in their own States. If there is such additional money available then clearly there is an opportunity for State governments to make more of that money available to municipal governments but I would emphasise once again that this has always been a matter for the State governments concerned. 
I do not know of my own knowledge whether an invitation has in fact been extended to the individual named by the ACTU. Nor do I know of my own knowledge whether in fact he has been the head of the Soviet secret police under whatever name it might have gone - the CHEKA or all the other names and initials which that infamous organisation has been described by over the years. Nor indeed do I know whether he is still associated with that secret police organisation, an organisation which I would have thought some of those objecting on the other side would regard as most insidious, invidious and dangerous to ordinary citizens. Therefore the matter that is asked of me is one to which I cannot give a decision at this time but I do believe that the Government would need to look very carefully indeed at an application by anybody to come into this country if that person had been the head of an organisation such as the Soviet secret police or was still working for it or associated with it. 
It would be quite impossible for me to agree with the alleged remark of the Minister for Labour and National Service which was quite untruthfully put into his mouth by the honourable member, because the Minister yesterday did not at any time use the words which it is now stated that he used. So it is quite impossible to agree either with the alleged words or with the motives which led the honourable member to put them in his mouth. In regard to the rest of the question, I do agree with what the Minister for Labour and National Service said yesterday, which was that the question of 4 weeks leave for Commonwealth public servants had been carefully examined by the Government and had been discussed with representatives of the various unions but on the grounds of the cost to the community generally and on other grounds in relation to shift work, which the Minister mentioned, the Government decided not to grant this leave. This, I can only repeat, is not to be distorted in the way in which the honourable member for Banks sought to distort it. 
 I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Leader of the Opposition should be censured for his failure to respond to  Mr Speaker's  request that he use his influence with the honourable member for Wills to obey the decision of the House directed to him by  Mr Speaker  and thereby became a party to an attack on the institution of Parliament by members of the Opposition whose disruptive and unruly behaviour was designed to make impossible the conduct of the business of the House'. 
One expected that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in this debate would have directed himself to reasons which he believed justified him in censuring the Leader  (Mr Snedden)  for the way in which the Leader of the House has carried out his duties. Instead, we witnessed a personal attack by the Leader of the Opposition on the Leader of the House, much of which had nothing whatever to do with the conduct of the business of the House, much of which had no basis in fact, and all of which tended to be spiteful and malicious. 1 believe that the object both of the motion and of the way in which it was presented was an attempt to divert attention by the Leader of the Opposition from the most serious scenes which he aided and abetted and, if rumour is right, instigated in this House last night to the great detriment of the institution of Parliament. 
Before 1 develop that theme I would like to examine the puling case put forward by the Leader of the Opposition and what he advanced as a reason for this attack upon the Leader of the House. He claims untruthfully that the Leader of the House broke an agreement made with the Opposition on the first day that this House sat after the election. I am assured that there was no  such agreement  or arrangement made by the Leader of the House with any member of the Opposition. What is the evidence adduced by the Leader of the Opposition? 
It is that the Government had made provision for a 2-day sitting and that the Government had made provision for printing a blue sheet in case Parliament sat on the second day. That was a reasonable action to take. It does not in any way whatsoever constitute any kind of proof that an agreement had been made to sit on 2 days. If no such agreement had been made then, quite clearly, such agreement could have been broken. Thus the first unsubstantiated charge against the Leader of the House must fall to the ground. 
What is the next petulant complaint? It is a complaint that the Leader of the House moves the gag when motions of public importance are brought forward. It is a privilege and a right of the Opposition to raise matters which it considers to be of public importance in this House and to have them debated. Always in the past this has been done at intervals. Having been done at intervals, then it was debated by 3 or 4 speakers on each side. Clearly, if a Leader of the Opposition wants to be silly and to prevent Parliament from functioning and to prevent the business of the Government from going through the Parliament he can, as he now seeks to do, on every day of sitting move a matter which he says is a matter of public importance. If on every occasion they were to be debated by 3 or 4 speakers on each side then he would be, as he is seeking to be, a man who is obstructing the business of Parliament. Should these motions be spaced then the Opposition knows that full time will be given to them. If they are going to be sought to be brought forward on every day of sitting then every reasonable person will know that it is ridiculous to suggest that they should on every day take the time of the House. 
This is a spurious attempt, but above all it is a spurious attempt to pin the blame for this on the Leader of the House whose duty it is to move the closure when the forms of the House are being abused as the Leader of the Opposition has sought to abuse them. These, other than the events of last night, are all that I can gather was put forward as evidence by the Leader of the Opposition for his personal attack on the Leader of the House. He made his usual spiteful comments about the performance of the Minister as Minister for Labour and National Service, which has nothing to do with this motion at all. He adverted to a previous occasion when the present Leader of the House pointed out, slightly incorrectly, that the then honourable member for Yarra had spoken at a Communist dominated meeting from the same platform at the same time as a member of the Communist Party. He was slightly incorrect, because there was a Communist who spoke from the platform and the then honourable member for Yarra also spoke from the platform at that meeting but at a different time. So the Leader of the House was incorrect but he was man enough to agree he was incorrect on that account. This is put forward as some kind of suggestion that he is therefore not acting properly in leading the House. 
I would have thought that if this motion was expected to be treated with any real significance then there would have been instances after instances put before us where these alleged agreements had been made and had then been broken. There were no such instances put before us, except for the spurious one suggested on the first day of sitting and the allegations that one was broken last night. What is more important than this is the action which was taken by the Opposition last night, because I think that action strikes at the very roots of parliamentary democracy and such action has never been seen in this Parliament before. I doubt if it has ever been seen in any Parliament in Australia before or in other parliaments of the English speaking world. 1 think, to see the significance of this, we would all agree that if a citizen is to live a full and free life then he must live in a society which has conditions of order and protection for him. The alternative to that is anarchy. It has been proved over the years that that institution which best provides that order along with freedom for the citizen is the institution of Parliament, where decisions are made by a majority of those elected by a majority of the people of the country at regular intervals. If this is so the very existence of the kind of society which we know depends upon the proper functioning of a parliament. That is why parliamentary government has reached the position it now holds as a champion of the freedom of all people in the countries which they rule. If that institution is as important as that - and I believe it is - it is essential that the institution itself must be allowed to function and must function effectively or it gets destroyed or it turns into riots or it reaches a situation we have seen in some parliaments in some new countries overseas where shots are exchanged - where violence is used. If that is not to be done the Parliament must function with the order and according to the rules which its members themselves have made and agreed to as standing orders. 
Only by adherence to those rules and only by adhering to the instructions of the  Speaker  in the Chair can a parliament function effectively. If that is disrupted the very institution on which all depends will not work and will be disrupted. We saw such an attempt at disruption last night. The very great significance of this is that were this kind of conduct to continue, were there to be these repetitions - I quote from the statement I made last night which the Leader of the Opposition did not like - were the Opposition under the direction of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam)  again to resort to planned disruption verging on riot, were they again to refuse to obey the rulings of the Chair, were some of them again to refuse to leave the service of the House when named in accordance with standing orders which they have accepted and adopted, were they all to rise in a body as they did last night and shout and defy the ruling of the  Speaker  and thereby prevent the business of the Parliament from proceeding - were that to become the order of the day then the institution of Parliament on which so much depends would indeed have been beaten and broken and ground into the dust. It is because the first steps on this road were taken by the Leader of the Opposition that he sought to divert attention from it by making this mean attack on an individual with no basis in fact to back it up. 
Let us look briefly, because this is not as important as the basic fact of what the Opposition did last night, at the excuses - the feeble excuses - put forward by them as a reason for what they did last night. There was a Bill on the Murray waters before the House which had been debated for a number of hours, brought to the second reading stage. There was an amendment moved by the Opposition member in charge of the Bill. It was debated for some time and the closure was then moved. It is claimed - I speak with no personal knowledge whatever either way - that the Opposition member in charge of the Bill had other amendments which he wished to move. It is said that he indicated this in broad terms. But they were pretty secret amendments. They apparently had been typed out, given to the  Clerk,  put in a drawer, not circulated. Nobody had seen what in fact the contents of these alleged amendments were. 
Let us say they were there. I believe they were there. Nobody had seen what the amendments were. A strange way, in any case, to go on because the object of an amendment, I would have thought, would be to have it circulated in sufficient time for it to be able to be examined, to bc able to be analysed, for discussion to be able to take place on it on the Government side to see whether it was acceptable or not instead of it being kept secret and sprung only at the last minute. But not only was it secret but there was an indication from the honourable member that he did have these amendments. What they were was not spelled out, as I understand it, but he did have some amendments. Having said that, it having been suggested to him in that case why not get up and move them, he decided not to do that until somebody had spoken and for all anybody knew somebody else had spoken after that and somebody else had spoken after that. 
While I agree that it is essential and a function of a government to protect the right of an opposition to move amendments it is not the function of a government to allow an opposition to use the moving of amendments in order to waste time and delay and use tactics in order to prevent this happening. This is true. This is necessary and in each case a judgment has to be made on that matter. But this, which is not of great significance, is the excuse that was given for the riotous behaviour that was seen here. All I can say is that I hope the House will vote for the amendment I have moved because that amendment clearly points out that the Leader of the Opposition in this place did not seek to restrain the Opposition from following a course, from refusing to obey your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  from standing and shouting in this House in such a way that the Parlia ment could not properly continue. Anyone with a feeling for history, anyone with a knowledge of how politics work, above all any lawyer who knows the rule of law must know the enormity of this and I think because he does know the enormity of this, this small motion is moved improperly against the Leader of the House. 
I think if the honourable member has access to the greens to which he says he has so far not had access he will discover that I did not say he spoke from the same platform as a member of the Communist Party on this occasion. I think he will find that quite clearly set out, because that was the statement that I understood was previously made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and the statement to which the honourable member took objection. So let us dispose at once of the suggestion just recently made by the honourable member that I repeated that. I did not. Indeed, I pointed out that there was a difference here because, as 1 .understood it, the honourable member spoke from a platform at this meeting and a member of the Communist Party at a different time- 
I am sorry; 1 said I am endeavouring to tell you what I believed to be the situation this afternoon and that was that the only difference was this, as I believed, that at this meeting the honourable member for Yarra, as he then was, spoke from the platform and a member of the Communist Party at a different time, not on the same platform, spoke from it. 
Never mind; that was what I am trying to show you was in the greens to which you said you had no access and which you misunderstood when you made your first statement. There is some difference, in fact, because I have looked at some of the facts iu the time that has elapsed and it appears that the true situation is that there was this meeting which - again I must check this completely, but perhaps the honourable- member will remember - was something called the Yugoslav Settlers Association or something of that kind which I believe could accurately be described as a considerably left of centre organisation. The honourable member for Lalor spoke from the platform at that meeting at that time. A leading member of the Communist Party spoke at that meeting at that time but not from the platform - from the floor. This then,  Mr Speaker,  is the matter on which the honourable member for Lalor chooses to make such a song and dance. Surely the significant factor is this, that at that meeting the honourable member spoke from the platform and at that meeting a leading member of the Communist Party spoke from the floor. 
I have not yet had time to properly check whether the general tenor of the speeches, whether the general suggestions advanced in the speeches, the general arguments - were the same in both cases. They were similar in both cases. Perhaps the honourable member for Lalor will even remember that, but he will not enlighten us on that at this time apparently. But I do remember this afternoon,  Mr Speaker,  that the honourable member for Lalor did say: 'Oh, there was a member of the Communist Party at that meeting'. He did not mention that he had spoken. He said: 'No doubt perhaps the Prime Minister might have a meeting and there could be a member of the Communist Party sitting in the body of the hall'. Of course there could, but he would not get up - I am quite sure of this - this leading member of the Communist Party, at any meeting 1 had, and speak from the floor and, as I believe, advance the same kind of ideas. 
What is at issue here? What is at issue here is simply this: That there is an attempt to pretend that there is an enormous and significant difference between a member of the Communist Party speaking from a platform at a different time from the honourable member for Lalor and a member of the Communist Party speaking from the floor while the honourable member for Lalor spoke from the platform at the same meeting at the same time. That,  Mr Speaker,  is what I would say in reply to the honourable member's question as to how much I have been able to discover to this point of time. 
As I am sure the Leader of the Opposition would know, the general interest rate structure has an effect upon the prices at which bonds are sold. So do the operations and the magnitude of operations of, for example, the Reserve Bank in the market. I have no doubt that the interest yield which is available in other fields and the general tightness of money would have an effect in the field in respect of which the Leader of the Opposition asked a question. 
1 wish to inform the House that the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  left Australia on11th April to visit Bangkok and Saigon. He is leading the Australian delegation to the opening stages of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East ministerial meeting beginning in Bangkok on 14th April, after which he will go to Vietnam for a 4-day visit.  Mr McMahon  is expected to return to Australia on 21st April. During his absence the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  will be acting as Minister for External Affairs and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will represent the acting Minister in this House. 
The honourable member's question is based entirely on Press speculation and what he has read in the paper without any official backing whatsoever. The Press speculation to which I refer arises from the visit by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Fraser,  to the United States, and after  Mr Fraser  has returned and there is any statement to be made it will be made in this House. 
 I cannot answer that question without having a chance to study all the circumstances surrounding the case. I will certainly do that and let the honourable member know the answer. 
The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
Employers are generally paying rates to tradesmen and related grades which are higher than the legal minimum rates prescribed under awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Whilst the rates prescribed under Federal Awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are legal minimum rates to which overaward payments can be added, the rates paid to Commonwealth public servants are the actual rates prescribed in Public Service regulations or in determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. However, it has been the policy approach of the Public Service Board  to  determine pay rates for the Commonwealth Service in the light of rates actually paid by other employers for comparable work, including both the award and over-award elements of the rates paid. 
As the answer to Question (2) indicates, there is no anomaly. The Board's recent decision to increase by 6.6% the rates payable to tradesmen and associated categories and support staff reflected the Board's conclusion, following representations from the A.C.T.U. and in the light of its own inquiries about rates actually paid in industry, State public services and government instrumentalities, that an adjustment of this order was necessary to place the Commonwealth Service in a competitive position. 
The Board's recent decision was not novel: similar representations had been made by the A.C.T.I7. in 1964 and on that occasion, following consideration of relevant factors including market rates of pay for the staff categories covered by the representations, adjustments were made to the value and number of increments for tradesmen and associated categories and support staff. 
Approximately 60,000 tradesmen and associated categories and support staff have received the 6.6% pay increase. The Board is not aware of any employees who have a determined work value relationship with tradesmen's grades who have been excluded from the 6.6% pay increases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia accepts and abides by the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council which impose sanctions against the illegal regime in Rhodesia. Australia's trade with Rhodesia over the past four years was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a statement made on 22nd November 1969, the United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Laird,  stated that the total draft call for January 1970, would be reduced from 35,000, the figure announced on 19th September 1969, to 12,500. The Government is not aware of any statement by  President  Nixon or any other member of the United States Administration to the effect that either the number of conscripts or the ratio of conscripts to volunteers in the American forces in Vietnam would be reduced. 
and (3) I refer the honourable member to the reply I gave to a question without notice asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives on 4th March 1970 (Hansard page 27). 
 Mr Speaker,  it is with deep regret that I have to advise the House of the death last night of  Senator the  Honourable Colin McKellar.  Senator McKellar  was born in Gulgong, New South Wales, on 29th May 1903. He served in the 6th Light Horse from 1936 until 1941 when he commenced full time duty with the Australian Military Forces. He enlisted in the 2nd Australian Imperial Force in 1942 and retired in April 1946 with the rank of major.  Senator McKellar  was a prominent grazier in Gilgandra until 1959 and had a long association with rural industry. He held the position of  chairman  of the Australian Country Party in New South Wales from 1957 until his election as a senator for New South Wales in 1958. He was a member of a number of parliamentary committees and was  Chairman  of Committees from August 1962 to December 1964. In 1964 he was appointed Minister for Repatriation and served in this portfolio until he resigned in November 1969 on account of ill health. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 knew  Senator McKellar  well both as a colleague in the Senate and as a Minister in my first Ministry. He was dedicated to serving the interests of those he represented and his very real interest in the problems of ex-servicemen assisted him in the successful fulfilment of the responsibilities of his portfolio. I think this Parliament has lost a very able and respected colleague - a man who, like the late Jim Fraser, had no meanness anywhere about him, and a man of transparent integrity and transparent honesty in all of his dealings. I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death on 13th April 1970 of the Honourable Gerald Colin McKellar, a senator for the State of New South Wales from 1958 and a Minister of the Crown from 1964 to 1969, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
-I have not studied in what I would call any depth whatever the report of the Committee in another place. The question of parliamentary committees generally - not only standing committees to which, I think, the report refers, but also select committees to inquire into particular matters - is one which has been receiving the attention of the Government in the belief that it has been demonstrated that, in particular, select committees inquiring into particular subjects can be of assistance not only to those from each side of the House who are engaged on them but also to the Parliament as a whole. This consideration will be continued and the honourable member in due course will know the results. 
The honourable member did not at the beginning of his question indicate that he was speaking solely about gold mines but towards the end of it he mentioned gold mines and I take it he is. I have not been personally aware of the shutting down of gold mines in the Kalgoorlie area but I think the honourable member could scarcely expect that a gold mine would run at a loss or that the public should be required to finance the running of a gold mine at a loss. That, I think, is all I can say to him. 
The assistance will apply to those who receive the major part of their income from primary production. It will not necessarily be confined to those who receive ail their income but it will apply to those who receive the major part of their income from primary production, as 1 recollect the matter. I would not say that the action was taken in order to help those in necessitous circumstances. I would say that the action was taken in order to dampen down by the use of interest rates a demand which was outrunning the supply of labour and materials generally throughout Australia and that we looked at this. We believed that this was happening generally throughout Australia but was specifically not happening in the rural areas, because the income that primary producers have been getting has dropped so low. As the honourable member would know, wool prices are as low as they have been and we have heard about butter. Generally speaking there was not being generated in country areas a demand which it was necessary to curtail. That being the case we believed that it would be quite unjustifiable to inflict on primary producers already suffering grave disabilities an additional burden in order to curtail a demand which was not there. 
I am not sure I really heard all of that question. Was it that those employed by the Commonwealth of Australia should be removed from the control of the Public Service Board? 
I am not sure what the honourable member has in his mind. Perhaps he might be able to talk to me about it in a little more detail. I would believe that the Public Service Board over the years as an employer of those who work for the Commonwealth has been of great advantage in removing from the political arena questions of what should be paid and what the conditions should be in most cases. In a sense it acts as the arbitration court acts, and I am sure that that too would be regarded by honourable members as a proper course to be followed in industrial relations. 
The honourable member will probably know that some considerable time ago the States wished to raise revenue additional to the revenue grants provided to them by the Commonwealth. It was within the competence of each State to decide how it would proceed to do this and whether it would proceed to do it by a States receipts duty or in some other way, and, indeed, the degree to which it would impose such taxation. This was a field of State taxation, as are many other fields. It had started, of course, in Western Australia when receipts duty was imposed on incomes many years ago. It varied from State to State but, by and large, it was an attempt by the States to raise revenue additional to that which they received from the Commonwealth and it was left to them to do so. This was challenged in a court case and it was held that it was invalid for the States themselves to impose that kind of taxation. They therefore did indicate to us that they would like us to take action on their behalf to validate their own taxation requirements, and this is what we propose to do in that field. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 26th September last year I announced to the House that the Commonwealth Government was prepared to provide a loan of up to $80ra to the Queensland Government to help the State finance the construction of a proposed large scale power station at Gladstone in central Queensland which would provide low-cost power and, through it, attract a viable export oriented industrial complex to central Queensland. The offer was conditional on the State being able to satisfy the Commonwealth that it could attract such special industrial development to the region. Since that announcement negotiations have progressed between the State and Organisations likely to establish industries in the central Queensland region, and also between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth. The result of these negotiations is that the Queensland Government has satisfied the Commonwealth that major export oriented industries are likely to be attracted to central Queensland through the provision of the low-cost power; and the Commonwealth and Queensland governments have reached agreement on the terms and conditions of a Commonwealth loan to the State to assist with the necessary works. On 8th April an agreement between the 2 governments was signed by myself and the Premier of Queensland. The purpose of this Bill is to seek Parliament's approval for the agreement to come into effect and for the provision of the financial assistance specified in the aggreemen. 
The estimated cost of the proposed power station together with local reticulation at Gladstone, at 1968 prices, is $155m. It will have an approximate total installed generating capacity of HOO megawatts, of which about 600 megawatts will be reserved by the State for special industrial purposes in central Queensland. For the purpose of the agreement the Queensland Government shall produce evidence satisfactory to the Minister for National Development that the State has entered into or proposes to enter into agreements, arrangements and options for the consumption of electrical power by industrial organisations which will export a substantial proportion of their products or which will produce goods of a kind which will be supplied to industries producing goods predominantly for export. 
As in other similar arrangements, provision is made in the agreement for the approval by the Minister for National Development of the letting of major con tracts - in this instance those for the performance of works to a value in excess of $lm. The actual amount of the Commonwealth financial assistance will depend on the cost of construction of the power station and local reticulation. The agreement provides for a variation in the amount of finanical assistance above or below $80m according to any variation which occurs in the total cost above or below $155m. Thus the amount of financial assistance may be expressed arithmetically as 80/155ths of the total cost of the project. Commonwealth financial assistance will be available towards expenditure by the State on the project during the period commencing on the date of my announcement, 26th September 1969 and ending on 30th June 1977. The assistance will be in the form of an interest bearing loan repayable over a period of 30 years commencing when the power station is completed. The loan will carry interest at the rate of 6.4% per annum to accrue and to be capitalised during the construction of the project. There is, however, provision for the State to make payments of interest, instead of allowing the interest to be capitalised, once integral components of the station are commissioned and producing power. There is also provision for interest charges not to be payable during the early stages of construction of the project, thus reducing the overall interest cost to somewhat below 6.4% . 
Honourable members no doubt will be interested in an outline of the background to this important project. Prior to its consideration of a major power station at Gladstone the State had already envisaged the construction of a thermal power station in the region as part of its programme for a general expansion to meet normal growth in the demand for electricity. The initial planning involved interconnection of the supply networks located in southern and central Queensland. A number of studies of the prospects for development of central Queensland, including a study by the Department of National Development in conjunction with the State Department of Industrial Development, have pointed to the imposing array of natural resources which exist in the region. These resources have been shown to be outstanding in both variety and magnitude, yet still relatively underdeveloped. The official studies and various industry inquiries have indicated that these resources could well be a base for the establishment of large scale export oriented industries. 
In saying this, it should be remembered too that impressive developments have already been taking place in the region. For example, large coal mining and export operations have become established, the ports of Gladstone and Port Alma have been considerably developed and a large scale alumina project established at Gladstone is entering a major expansionary stage. The region possesses very large resources of steaming coal, considerable quantities of which are mined and produced together with coking coal by companies principally engaged in the production and export of coking coal in the region. This steaming coal will be regularly available to the State at low cost. 
Against this background of resources and potential the Premier of Queensland in September 1968 raised with me the possibility of the Commonwealth assisting the State with capital in order that a power station could be built at Gladstone to provide the high load factor and low-cost supply required to attract' major export oriented industries to central Queensland. At that time negotiations had commenced between Queensland Ministers and officials and several companies interested in major industrial development in the region. Since then the proposals put forward by the Queensland Government have been closely examined by the Commonwealth. I would mention that, in the course of these investigations, the Snowy Mountains Authority was engaged as consultants. The Commonwealth, as a result of these investigations, is greatly impressed with the potential of the power station project both for attracting major industries to central Queensland and for bringing about a substantial lift in exports. 
Naturally the negotiations between the Queensland Government and the companies concerned are confidential. I can say that the Commonwealth is satisfied from the evidence presented to it that major export oriented industries will be establishing in central Queensland. In fact, the Government believes, as the Governor-General said in his speech on 3rd March, that the power station will result in the construction of an aluminium smelter, possibly the biggest in the southern hemisphere, and in other industrial development. We are confident, along with the Queensland Government, that the power station will attract a major chemical industry using the extensive salt resources in the area and we have high hopes that operations in this field may commence in 2 or 3 years time. There is indeed a whole range of industries which could be attracted to central Queensland by the power station. To the best of my knowledge these have not been brought to finality, but it is fully expected that that will happen. The Government believes that its support of this project, besides encouraging new industrial development and a lift in exports, will prove to be a concrete example of decentralisation. 
There is one further matter which I should bring to the attention of honourable members. The Queensland Government has also asked that the Commonwealth give consideration to further financial assistance at a later date should the demand for power from the special export oriented industries to be established in the region increase to such a pronounced degree that further enlargement of the power station would then be required. While the Government cannot at this stage give any commitment in relation to decisions that will have to be taken by a future Government in the circumstances existing then, we have informed the Queensland Government that we would approach the matter sympathetically when it arrives. 
I would like to give to the House an example of the kind of development to which this project might lead. If the aluminium smelter to which I have referred should be established in this region it is likely that at its first stage of production it could be producing 240,000 tons of aluminium a year at a value on present day prices of about $126m. At a later stage, should all go well, it could be producing 320,000 tons of aluminium at an export value of $165m. The taxation revenue alone from such a development, should it come to fruition, would make this indeed a proper business proposition. But this is not only a business proposition. It is, as I have said, a concrete example of decentralisation and it may well prove to be the greatest step yet taken to awaken in that area of Queensland - a State which has been called a sleeping giant - really significant industrial development, a real increase in population, a real benefit to the State, and, through its exports, a real benefit to the nation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. At the Premiers Conference in July 1964 there was a discussion of various aspects of the subject of decentralisation and it was agreed that Commonwealth and State officials should undertake a joint pooling of knowledge about and study of the many issues involved. 
The Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation consists of representatives from each State and from the following Commonwealth Departments - the Prime Minister's Department and the Treasury, the Departments of Trade and Industry, Primary Industry, National Development and Labour and National Service. 
The Committee has met three times: the dates of each meeting being 4-5 th March 1965, 30th November 1966 and 7lh February 1969. 
and (5) The Committee has set in hand a wide range of studies, information in respect of which was given in my replies to Parliamentary Question Nos 1179 on 17th April 1969 (Hansard, page 1274) and 1643 on 9th September 1969 (Hansard, page 1014). As indicated in these replies, reports on several of the individual studies have been completed. The report on the New South Wales study of the cost involved for firms and individuals in locating in various areas also has been completed. It is not yet possible to indicate when all of the remaining reports will be finished. 
The most important of the remaining studies are those dealing with the relative costs of providing public services in various locations. The New South Wales study of the estimated cost of hypothetical future development, and the Victorian study of historical costs, have reached an advanced stage. The position regarding a Victorian study of the estimated cost of future development is unchanged from that indicated in the reply to Question No. 1179. This position will be reviewed in the light of the New South Wales experience in dealing with several difficult conceptual and methodological problems encountered in this part of the study. Work is also nearing completion on the study of city water supply costs and the study of traffic congestion. The timing of the Committee's general report is dependent on the progress of the main individual studies. 
The question of tabling the reports in the Commonwealth Parliament will be decided after the Commonwealth and State Governments have considered the report of the Commonwealth/State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. 
Aboriginals (Question No. 517) 
The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
Aboriginals are eligible for employment in Commonwealth Departments and Instrumentalities in the same way as non-Aboriginals. Aboriginals are already employed by the Commonwealth and their number will no doubt increase. However, because Commonwealth employment is largely concentrated in the capital cities, the private sector of industry can offer the widest variety and volume of employment opportunities to Aboriginals at this stage, having regard to their location and qualifications. The Department of Labour and National Service (through its employment training scheme and augmented services to give special assistance to Aboriginals) is actively encouraging the employment of Aboriginals and is successfully placing Aboriginals in employment, including apprenticeship trades and clerical positions. 
Public Service (Question No. 526) 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The relevant determination of the Public Service Arbitrator provides as follows: 
Except with the approval of the Board', that is, the Public Service Board, 'the occupants of offices the minimum salary of which exceeds $7,670 per annum in the case of male employees and $7,242 per annum in the case of female employees shall not be eligible to receive overtime.' 
The salary rates for Second Division officers range from $11,822 per annum to $17,899 per annum and therefore occupants of Second Division positions are not eligible to receive overtime payments except with the approval of the Public Service Board. No such approval has been given by the Public Service Board. 
Prior to 1964 there were a few positions in the Second Division with salaries which would have made the occupants of those positions eligible for overtime payments but those positions are no longer in the Second Division. 
The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
and (2) Section 34 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 provides that: 
A person is not eligible for appointment to the Commonwealth Service unless: 
the Board is satisfied, after he has undergone a medical examination approved by the Board, as to his health and physical fitness; 
The existing medical standards for permanent appointment to the Commonwealth Service will, in certain circumstances, admit people suffering from faulty eyesight, epilepsy, or diabetes to the Commonwealth Service. 
These standards reflect: 
present medical knowledge; 
the long-established principle that staff accepted for permanent appointment should be covered by a scheme providing retirement, invalidity and death benefits; 
the need to maintain the efficiency of the Service; and 
the specific medical requirements of particular occupations. 
The standards are being reviewed continually to take account of developments in the diagnosis and control of medical conditions. 
The Provident Account established under the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 facilitates the appointment of those who cannot meet the higher standards required for admission to the full pension scheme of the Superannuation Fund. Persons accepted for the Provident Account may of course subsequently apply for transfer to the Superannuation Fund as provided for in the Superannuation Act 1922-1969. 
Applicants for temporary employment are not normally required to undergo a medical examination. Medical examination may be required for employment in certain occupations which demand a particular standard of medical fitness or where particular types of medical unfitness could expose an employee or others to risk. 
Applicants for temporary employment are required to state on the application form whether they suffer from any physical disabilities. If an applicant stated that he suffered from faulty eyesight, epilepsy or diabetes, he may be referred for medical examination and his fitness for the employment sought would be determined in the light of the results of that examination. 
The following figures show the number of persons who failed to meet the medical standard for contribution to the Superannuation Fund but met the standard for contribution to the Provident Account: 
1 do not know how many meetings of the Committee have been held. I have no information on that whatsoever but I will secure it for the honourable member and let him have it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following details have been supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Information relating to the production of motor vehicles from1950, is given in Table I below. 
The question I was asked yesterday by the honourable member for Bonython, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will discover if he looks at Hansard, was: Has the Government accepted a reported offer by the United States concerning Phantom aircraft? That was the question I was asked. Subsequently the Minister for Defence and Secretary Laird issued a communique which covered the matters that had been discussed over a broad field and indicated that should the Australian Government so wish, Phantoms would be available to the Australian Government. It did not say that the Australian Government had accepted this. This was not in the communique. I can only repeat that after the Minister for Defence returns and after the whole field has been discussed a statement will be made by the Government on the question asked me yesterday by the honourable member for Bonython as to whether the Australian Government in all the circumstances would or would not accept the question of possibly getting Phantoms as an interim aircraft. 
The interest rates on ordinary house purchasing have been increased by  i%  in accordance with the Reserve Bank's statement of the general rise in interest rates. I am informed that the Commonwealth Savings Bank, having considered this matter, decided that the additional interest rates will not impose additional yearly payments on people who are buying homes but will if those people so wish mean that the period of time over which the homes would be paid off would be extended. 
I cannot assure the Leader of the Opposition that I have any very distinct memory of the 1953 judgment to which he refers or the 1953 letter to which he refers. But, coming back to the substance of his question, I would myself believe it only prudent and right that there should be fields of government activity in which parliamentary committees should be restrained from getting documents and from calling before them individuals in order to get evidence from them. I do remember that, when the Australian Labor Party had a majority in the Senate, it set up a parliamentary committee of the Senate to examine the defence forces and it sought to call before it the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of 
Staff and the other Chiefs of Staff and to get all documents relating to defence capacity. The then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, believed as I would believe that this was not a proper function of that committee. There must be activities of government which are not made public, which in fact would happen if they went before a parliamentary committee of this kind. I do not propose to go into any analysis of just where the borders should or should nol be drawn on this matter otherwise than to express that general approach. 
1 believe that most members of the House would agree that the Public Service Board, being in charge of Public Service salaries and conditions, should not be. and indeed I think legally cannot be, instructed what to do in carrying out its arbitral responsibilities. It should not be instructed by a Prime Minister or by a government on how it should carry out these responsibilities. I will seek to answer the detailed parts of the question asked by the honourable member by way of a letter. As for the final question which he asked, I believe it would be wrong for a government to try to impose its will - I think it has no legal right to impose its will - on the arbitral authority, in this case the Public Service Board. 
As I think all honourable members will know, there were a number of questions which it was proposed should be included in the census which is being taken. The Cabinet considered these questions and it felt it needed to balance the alleged requirements for statistics in various fields against an intrusion into the privacy of the individual which a state might well carry too far if it were not checked. Examining each of the questions asked, the Cabinet reached its view as to whether the intrusions into the privacy which these questions represented were sufficiently great to prevent the questions being asked. In many cases we believed that intrusion was too great. Even though it can be argued that information of various kinds is helpful to planners 1 nevertheless think there is a need to try to protect the individual citizens against too much intrusion by officialdom into such questions as how many bathrooms they have and what their incomes are when they already have to supply that information to the particular authorities. We sought to strike a balance between the information which would be useful and the protection of the privacy of the individual, and that is what in our judgment we did. 
I do not believe that the question of the level at which Australia's reserves stand - that is, Australia's governmental reserves - has anything to do at all with the borrowing abroad by the Australian Resources Development Bank of S20m for Australian industry. This is a matter of the Bank exercising its judgment - industry having put propositions to it, I imagine - and the Bank being able to secure for the development of Australian industries this sum of money abroad. Nor as I see it does the rate of interest at which it is being borrowed affect that question. The industries concerned must make their judgment on whether they can make a profit and repay the loans that are made at the specific rate of interest which is charged. This is being done constantly by companies which now borrow abroad themselves - big international companies - for investment in Australia and quite clearly the money is available and the money is able to be used profitably by those who borrow it. So I do not see the point of the honourable member's question insofar as those two things are concerned. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  it is true that in a recent address in Perth I pointed out that the Australian Resources Development Bank had so far, at the time I spoke, borrowed virtually none of this high interest money abroad to assist industry and that all its activities had been very largely concentrated in mobilising Australian funds with Australia. This is now branching out into that field. The proposed Industry Development 
Corporation will be able, I believe most successfully and most helpfully for Australian industry, to follow that path. 
1 indicated to the honourable member for Macquarie that I would let him have a written reply on this matter when I got the information, of which I said that I had no information in my head. It seems to me that if what the Leader of the Opposition said is correct, he could provide the written reply to the honourable member for Macquarie, though I will duplicate it if he wishes. On this matter of decentralisation generally,  Mr Speaker,  I think it might well be pointed out that there has been much that has occurred quite apart from the meetings of the committee to which the Leader of the Opposition referred. I direct the House's attention, as one example of this, merely to the Bill introduced yesterday for the establishment at Gladstone of this new power house to bring industries there which is perhaps likely to be one of the most forward steps taken in decentralisation in this country. 
I know of no such request that has been received by the Australian Government. I am not acting as Minister for External Affairs. It is possible for all I know that there might have been a message but I know of no such message. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government believes that the processes of law and of responsible government in Australia already provide sufficient safeguards for those who complain of unfair or discriminatory treatment by Government departments or agencies. Constituents have already access to their own  Senator or  Members of Parliament who make representations to Ministers and Departments and, in practice, secure many necessary adjustments. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the United Kingdom Command Paper 'Statement on the Defence Estimates 1970', paragraphs 41 to 59, a copy of which is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
On 19th March 1958 the then Prime Minister reported in detail to Parliament on the Morshead Committee's proposals. (See Hansard of 19th March 1958, pp. 443 to 438.) 
I refer the right honourable member to the statement made in the House on 27th March 1958 by the then Minister for Defence. (See Hansard of 27th March 1958, p. 776.) 
The reasons given in 1958 for not tabling the report still apply. 
Our defence organisation, like all other aspects of defence, is subject to constant review by the Government. Where changes appropriate to our own circumstances and needs are warranted, they will be made. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The bank charges referred to in the question are not in the nature of interest rates and, therefore, do not fall within the area in which the Treasurer or the Reserve Bank has responsibilities under the Banking Act. 
Some time before the increases in bank charges were announced, the general Managers of the major trading banks, following agreed arrangements, informed the Reserve Bank that bank charges were being reviewed. Subsequently, the Reserve Bank was provided with a detailed schedule of the fees proposed, to be effective from 1st January 1970. This gave the Reserve Bank the opportunity to confirm that the proposals did not conflict with any Banking Act requirements. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As the honourable member will be aware, it is not the practice of a bank to provide information about the affairs of an individual customer. 
 I think the honourable member and the House will know that the Government has announced that its policy is that should the judgment be that the situation in Vietnam has reached a stage where further considerable allied troop withdrawals can safely take place some Australian troops will be phased into the next significant withdrawal at some stage during that withdrawal. This clearly is what the honourable member knows. The question of just when that should occur and the troops that would be involved in it would be matters that would probably be stated in this House at the time the stage has been reached when the Government should make a statement on this in the House and should not be the result of a question based on Press speculation. But these matters will be discussed here. 
Part of the answer that I will give to the honourable member is a recollection only and it is possibly not correct, though I think it is. I believe, from recollection, that the original difficulty about the 50c coins was that they were round coins and were very easily confused with the 20c coins and, in fact, were claimed to be so confused. They were withdrawn and a new 12-sided 50c coin was struck so that this difficulty would be overcome. I am not aware that there is any particular shortage of these coins but if there is I will seek to find out the reason for it and let the honourable member know.  apolloxiii 
MrWHITTORN  -I  ask the Prime Minister a question. To what extent, if any, has the Australian Government offered its services, such as the Navy or the Air Force, to help the astronauts arrive safely back on earth? 
I have no information of our offering services such as the Navy and the Air Force but, on the other hand, as soon as the difficulty was known the United States Government got in touch with the Australian Government and asked that we make available the 210-foot diameter dish at Parkes which was required because of the need to pick up signals which were sent with a very low electrical impulse. The United States Government needed such a piece of equipment in order to pick up those impulses. It also needed various alterations - and I am sorry that I am not a technical electrician on this - to the equipment which would help in the control of and general being in touch with the astronauts. This, of course, was immediately put in hand by the Australian Government. I have every reason to believe that, through the Department of Supply, the Australian Government did all it was asked and, indeed, all that it could. We could only wish that we could have done more. 
 I would suggest to the mover and seconder of this motion that there is really no need for them to press the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders in relation to this matter or at least in relation to the matter that is before the House. I understood the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  to wish to have presented to the House all copies of correspondence between the former Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  and former State Premiers and between the former Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  and the Ministers of the States concerning the off-shore oil agreement. Now, those decisions were taken in the time of a former Government and a former Prime Minister and quite frankly they have nothing whatever to do with the question which the House is now to debate, which is the question not of off-shore petroleum but of resources other than petroleum. This is nothing before us now at all. Therefore I would not undertake, and I do not believe it has any relevance, to produce that kind of correspondence between a former Prime Minister which led to legislation which has been passed by this Parliament and by all the State Parliaments, which is still in force and which it is intended shall remain in force, concerning the search for off-shore petroleum. This has no relevance to the motion before us at all. 
But in regard to the other matters which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who is in charge of the Bill! for the Opposition has raised, speaking for myself I would have no objection whatsoever, without a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, without a vote, I would be perfectly happy to undertake - in relation to matters other than petroleum matters- - to present to this House what it is that the honourable member could have asked for without going into this great song and dance. I would be happy, in relation to matters other than petroleum, which is not the subject before the House at all, and therefore the motion could have no relevance to it, to present to the honourable member for Dawson any correspondence between the Prime Minister - that being myself - and the State Premiers on off-shore mineral resources other than petroleum. I do not believe there has been any correspondence but if I can find any I will be happy to present it. As to the previous Minister for National Development and the State Ministers for Mines, I would be happy to present correspondence on offshore mineral resources other than petroleum. I would be happy to present any correspondence between the Commonwealth Attorney-General and the State Attorneys-General on these matters which are now before us in this Bill. Provided the States will agree - and I will ask them to agree  -  I would be more than happy to present the pertinent minutes of the meeting between the previous Minister for National Development and the State Ministers for Mines. These are all the things that are asked for in the motion before the House now. These are the only things that can be pertinent to the debate before the House now and I will undertake without the necessity for the suspension of Standing Orders - but I must get permission of the State Ministers for Mines to do it as they are not exclusively our property- 
The honourable member says that they will give me that. I think they will but I think it necessary purely, if you like, as a matter of courtesy to arrange that this should be done. I would be delighted to present these to the House and I will undertake to do so now. 
I do not need the suspension of Standing Orders to enable a motion to be moved. I have undertaken to do it and I would be glad to do so. Indeed, whether a suspension of the Standing Orders were carried or were not carried, if the honourable member wishes to push it to a division I will still keep an undertaking to present these papers that are asked for to the House so that they can be discussed in relation to the Bill, but I would not undertake to present previous correspondence concerning a completely different matter. At least, without consideration I would not be prepared to do that because this is a matter which has already- 
'Why not", I am asked. Because this has nothing whatever to do with the Bill before the House which is one to deal with other than petroleum. It is one to deal1 with off-shore resources other than petroleum and therefore correspondence in a previous government concerning petroleum can have no relation to it at all, but in relation to all these matters before the House I now undertake, provided the State Ministers for Mines will agree, to present to the House all these matters asked for. I agree that it might well help in a discussion of them. If the honourable member wishes to push forward with his motion, that is up to him, but whether it is carried or whether it is not 1 will keep the undertaking I have given to him now. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no official statistics of productivity per head of the work force in the various categories of industry since 1950. There are some relevant data. One approach to the measurement of the rate of change in productivity per employee in manufacturing industry since 1949-50 would be to use the annual index of factory production and the work force particulars from the annual factory censuses on which the index is based. With regard to non-manufacturing industries, annual estimates of gross product at constant prices for all industry by twelve categories were published last year. These estimates relate to the period 1959-60 to 1965-66. Particulars of the work force by various categories of industry are not available, however, except at census dates. 
As well as the data limitations, there are statistical and conceptual problems precluding the issue at this stage of officially approved estimates of productivity per head of the work force in the various categories of industry for the period in question. 
 On11th March, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  asked the Treasurer a question without notice as to whether he would recommend to the Reserve Bank that the recent increase in trading bank overdraft interest rates should not apply to rural producers. The Treasurer indicated at the time that he was discussing the matter with the Governor of the Reserve Bank. 
I am now able to provide the honourable member with the following information: 
The Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer subsequently consulted the Governor of the Reserve Bank about the impact of the higher interest rates on rural producers. The Ministers stated the Government's view that, having regard to the special difficulties suffered by a number of rural industries at present, and the financial problems facing many rural producers, it would not be appropriate that there should be a general increase in trading bank lending rates on loans to rural producers. 
The matter was subsequently reviewed by the Reserve Bank, and the Governor of the Bank thereafter discussed it with the trading banks. 
On 2nd April 1970, the Governor of the Reserve Bank announced  a  modification of the recent increase in maximum trading bank lending rates of interest. In announcing this, the Governor slated: 
It has been decided that in present circumstances the banks will apply  a  selective exemption of rural borrowers from the increase. The objective will be to avoid adding to the cost of servicing bank borrowings by rural producers who are now in a depressed situation. It is not intended that the exemption will be extended, for example, to individuals or companies whose main business is not farming or to borrowings by rural producers to finance new property purchases or new expenditure not related to rural production.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
At the Annual Conference of State Minis ters for Local Government held in Brisbane on 13th July 1964 it was agreed that it was desirable that building regulations in the various States should be as uniform as possible, and requested the Commonwealth Government to increase its co-operation with the  States  in this objective. 
On 30th July 1964, I invited the Director, Commonwealth Experimental Building Station, Commonwealth Department of Works, to my Canberra Office to discuss ways and means of compiling uniform building regulations throughout the Commonwealth and for the formation of a Commonwealth Secretariat to undertake the many matters which would arise from such an assignment. Following these discussions a Conference of interested States was held on 12th August 1964, and arising from this and subsequent conferences the Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations was established. 
The Commonwealth Government's interest in this matter has not diminished in the period since I became Prime Minister. Since the beginning of 1968, the Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations, for which the Commonwealth Experimental Building Station provides the Secretariat, has met on seven occasions, the last being on 18th-19th March 1970. 
I am advised by my colleague, the Minister for Works, that with a view to promulgating new regulations at the earliest possible time an Australian Model Uniform Building Code, which is to form the basis for new building regulations to be issued by the States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, is being issued as each major section of its contents is completed. The first of these sections has been issued to the several State and Commonwealth administrations concerned, and it is now being processed by them as a prelude to promulgation in due course. The Committee's work on the second section is well advanced, and the Committee is working also on portions of the third section. All told, the work of preparing the code is near the halfway mark. 
I have been advised by the Minister for External Territories as follows: 
The situation remains as set out in the answer to Question No. 1773 (Hansard, 9th September 1969, page 1017). 
In August 1969 a motion was introduced in the House of Assembly of Papua and New Guinea to call on the Administration of the Territory to take whatever steps may be practicable to have the boundary adjusted to a reasonable and equitable line having regard to the proper needs and aspirations of Papua and New Guinea, both now and in the future. 
This motion was defeated on the voices. 
Also in August 1969, the Queensland MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in answer to a question in the Queensland Legislative Assembly, said that the 900 or so people on the islands of Saibai, Dauan and Boigu (which would be affected by an adjustment of the boundary) regarded themselves as Queenslanders and would oppose any suggestion that they be transferred to the Papua and New Guinea Administration and that the Queensland Government supported their opposition to any change in their status. The Queensland Government again stated its position of support for the inhabitants of the islands concerned in a Press statement issued on 9th December 1969. 
The Government is keeping all aspects of the matter under review including the wishes of the inhabitants of the islands. 
On 1 5th April the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  asked me how many meetings of the Commonwealth/State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation have been held and when the report of the Committee will be made available. 
The Committee has met three times and 1 invite the honourable member to refer to my detailed answers to questions on notice appearing in Hansard on 17th April 1.969 (page 1274), 9th September 1969 (page 1014) and finally on 14th April 1970 (page 1 109). It. is clear from these answers that the studies being co-ordinated by the Committee are progressing but they are complex. The point is also made that those studies which are unfinished are being arranged by State authorities. As the work of the Committee is a State as well as a Commonwealth activity it is not possible to say when the Committee will report. 
by leave - Since 1965, Australian ground formations have been engaged with our allies in resisting armed attack on the Government of South Vietnam. Since that time, the question of whether Australian forces should have helped resist that attack has been debated in Australia. This Government, as previous governments, has approached this question in the spirit which was crystallised in one sentence by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  when he was Leader of the Opposition. That sentence is: 
The overriding issue which this Parliament has to deal with at alltimes . . . must be judged by this one crucial test: What best promotes our national security, what best guarantees our national survival. 
The Government believes that judged on this standard, our engagement in Vietnam is right and that it does best promote our national security, and we believe that for these reasons:It is surely incontrovertible that in Vietnam aggression is taking place and is being resisted. It is surely incontrovertible that the war there is only being sustained because large numbers of troops from North Vietnam are constantly dispatched to invade and subjugate the South, and that ifthat troop flow stopped the war would stop. Resistance to such aggression does best promote our national security, because we must strive to ensure that history is not repeated and that invasion and aggression is not allowed to be successful. For if it is successful, then the short span of history through which many of us in this chamber have lived shows that once successful, it is repeated and repeated until it becomes insufferable and has to be stopped - but stopped at a cost in blood and treasure infinitely greater than would have been the case had it been stopped at its initiation. 
Surely something of what happened in the last generation can be taken as experience by the present one. We saw Fascist and Nazi aggression raging unchecked and subjecting one small country after another to conquest until it had to be stopped - at the cost of a world war - which need not have happened had the aggression been stopped at its beginning. I thought that these lessons, which, let us never forget are of more import to small nations than to large, had been learned. Because for some years after the close of the Second World War, resolute action was taken to resist and defeat subversion in Malaya as it then was. This took some 12 long years or more - years when civilians were murdered by terrorists - when bands of guerillas with grenades and Sten guns sought to overthrow by force a government the people in Malaya wanted. Australians were there, with British and local forces, resisting that aggression. We were told then - and the words are strikingly familiar today: 'Australians should not be in Malaya. The war will go on forever, lt cannot be won'. But it was won. That aggression was not successful and Australia's national security was best promoted because of that lack of success. 
Then we saw aggression in Korea. We saw the people of the North sweep across the frontiers of the South in armed formations. Because the prevention of aggression, then, was the basic concept of the United Nations, we saw United Nations forces moving to defeat that aggression. Australians were there. And the aggression was defeated. And Australian national security was best promoted because it was defeated. We saw, and the principle is the same, Malaysia threatened during the confrontation and armed incursions into Malaysian territory. Australia helped to repel this aggression. And our national interest was best served by this. And then we saw the pattern repeated in Vietnam. It is Communist aggression there as it was in Korea and Malaya, but the source of the aggression - significant though it may be - is not as significant as the fact that it was aggression. For the Government believes that if small nations are to survive and prosper, then aggression from whatever source - whether it is inspired by Communism, Fascism or old fashioned nationalism - must not be allowed to succeed. 
The one consistent thread of principle - that small nations are best rendered secure if other small nations are not allowed to be overrun - has distinguished our policy through the post-war years. That is why we are in Vietnam, and that we should be there is a proposition supported by three of the significant political parties in Australia and opposed by one - the Labor Party. I put it to the House that Australian security is bound up with seeing that aggression does not succeed. I put it to the House that it is immoral to launch aggression but not immoral to resist it. This is a proposition which has been twisted and turned inside out by those who cry that this is an immoral war. So it is - but the immorality is in those who began it, who continue to invade, who will not negotiate for peace, who are bent on conquest and nothing but conquest. 
We have said that successful invasion of South Vietnam by the North would lead to further attempts at conquest in Laos, in Cambodia, and on the frontiers of Thailand. This was scouted and denied by those in the ranks of the Opposition who support the case of the invaders. But the history of recent days shows, I submit, how dangerously wrong they were.  Sir, I  have thought it necessary to speak of this background in discussing the latest decisions on our participation in Vietnam, lt was and is right for us to help to stem aggression. It was and is in our national interest - and that of all small nations - for aggression to be defeated. It is in our interest to help to secure by negotiation peace with selfdetermination for the people of South Vietnam. And in the meanwhile, while the invader will not negotiate, it is right to help resist him. Against this background, I speak to the House of the Government's decision. 
Following a review of the situation in Vietnam which led to the earlier United States decisions to reduce the level of its forces by 115,000 by the middle of this month,  President  Nixon yesterday announced his decision to introduce a new and long range programme of United States troop reductions involving the withdrawal of 150,000 men over the next 12 months. On 16th December last I announced the Government's decision that when the military situation in Vietnam permitted a further substantial withdrawal of allied troops, then some Australian units would be included in the numbers scheduled for withdrawal. Since then we have, with South Vietnam and the other allies, continued to keep developments and prospects in Vietnam under close study. The Communist side maintains its intransigence and continues to set its face against a negotiated settlement. There is no progress to report as regards peace talks. 
As the  President  has stated, there has been some overall decline in enemy force levels in South Vietnam in the last few months, though their actions in Laos and Cambodia must give us all cause for concern. The development that gives encouragement is the progress in what has been called 'Vietnamisation' - the movement towards South Vietnamese selfreliance. We see one result of this in the progressive reduction of allied forces. But it must be understood that 'Vietnamisation' means much more than the assumption by South Vietnamese forces of a greater share of the combat burden. Behind it lies a massive programme of expanding and modernising those forces. And behind that again is the progressive assumption by South Vietnam of the responsibility for all aspects of the war - a war fought across the widest fronts, embracing a complexity of military, political, psychological, social and economic factors. In all these areas much still remains to be done by South Vietnam, assisted by its allies across a wide civil and military spectrum. Yet progress has been such that important qualitative changes are being made, and will continue to be made, in regard to the assistance required by and given to the Government of South Vietnam in pursuit of the objective shared over the years by that Government and its allies. 1 reiterate that that objective is to establish the circumstances in which South Vietnam can determine its own future without fear. There can be no thought of abandoning that objective by a precipitate withdrawal of allied forces. But in continuing to give assistance to South Vietnam, our intention will be to take account of their own growing strength and to strike the most appropriate balance between an Australian military contribution and other forms of Australian assistance to Vietnam: We are mindful particularly that the process of 'Vietnamisation' obtains no less in Phuoc Tuy Province than in other parts of Vietnam and that it is both desirable and feasible for Australia to undertake, as the circumstances permit, qualitative changes in the shape of our overall contribution towards the goal we seek. 
Accordingly, I now announce to the House that after consultation in recent weeks with the governments of Vietnam and the United States, who understand and accept our approach, the Government has decided that one Australian infantry battalion and some supporting personnel will be withdrawn from South Vietnam. This reduction to our force in Vietnam will be effected by withdrawing, without replacement, the 8th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, which at present is scheduled to complete its tour of duty in November next. This will require a modification of the role at present played by our forces - a modification made feasible by the forces of Vietnamisation and national acceptance of responsibility by the Vietnamese themselves in Phuoc Tuy. 
But lei no-one say that because there is a modification of the role we play therefore we should play no role at alt. Reducing our forces because the Vietnamese are able to assume more responsibility is one thing. Totally removing our forces before the Vietnamese are able to accept full responsibility for replacing them is quite another. 
The timing of the battalion's departure from Vietnam remains to be determined, lt will be governed by general circumstances within the area in which Australian forces are operating and by the progress of Australian projects to assist the growth of greater capability in the South Vietnamese forces, and I shall touch on those later. Whether or not the battalion's departure may be brought forward from the November date will depend on developments in these fields. 
After the initial withdrawal, should the progress of pacification and Vietnamisation succeed as the  President  hopes and believes that it will, then at some stage during the 12-month period, we will consider phasing additional troops into the planned withdrawal. But the future situation is so uncertain and the future strategical situation so unpredictable that it is impossible to be any more definite than this. In co-operation with the Government of South Vietnam, in pursuit of our basic objectives, we are actively examining further ways in which we can contribute to the growth in South Vietnamese self-reliance. 
Following consultations with the Vietnamese Government, we have decided to provide a number of small mobile Army teams, totalling some 130 men. to work with the regional and popular forces in Phuoc Tuy province. The teams will have  a  liaison and training function and will operate on a pattern similar to that developed by some members of our existing Army Advisory Training Group, which will continue its work. We are also developing a further proposal that Australia provide instructors and other assistance to a South Vietnamese training centre for junior leaders - leaders of the popular forces and regional forces - planned for establishment on the site which will be vacated by the Australian battalion to be withdrawn from Vietnam. It is envisaged that courses at this centre, which would accommodate 400 to 500 students at a time, would give particular attention to instruction in methods of jungle warfare which have been developed by Australian forces. 
In addition. Cabinet will give urgent attention to the results of comprehensive studies now being made of other forms of assistance which might be offered to Vietnam.  Sir, I  am glad to be able to tell the House and the people of Australia that the situation has been reached when withdrawal of some Australian forces can be made. I would be yet happier when all Australian forces could be withdrawn, provided that our object is in no way endangered. And I believe that history will show that Australia in Vietnam was right, as she was right in the other instances of which I have spoken, not to stand idly by and refuse to lift a finger to help a small country attacked from without. For whenever one small country loses its freedom let us not ask for whom the bell tolls: it tolls for all. I present the following paper: 
Vietnam - Ministerial Statement, 22 April 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Answering the last question first: This document does not reveal any open conflict between the parties forming the coalition, and indeed,  Mr Speaker,  it would be extraordinary if it did because no such open or overt or covert conflict exists. Answering another point that the honourable member made on the question of subsidies, I draw his attention to the fact that both I as Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party have publicly pointed out that subsidies, particularly in the case of wool, are merely palliatives and no long term cure for the industry. 
I would also indicate that the document itself is prepared by a sub-committee of the Liberal Party reporting to the executive of that organisation, but I think it repays study: but that unlike the honourable member who asked the question we on this side of the House are not directed by such outside bodies as he would be in his case. 
I heard a 'Hear, hear' coming from behind me. I did not turn to see from whom it came. But from what I have said it follows as night follows day that naturally since what I have said was true, the Leader of the Country Parly would say 'Hear, hear!' 
Students in Australia at secondary schools, whether they be technical or other secondary schools, would primarily be there, as the honourable member suggests, to learn the subjects in the curriculum. They would also, I believe, quite properly be required to spend their time studying political questions which were of moment to the people of this country. But what is essential, of course, in such study is that when a matter is of political moment arguments on both points of view should be impartially placed before the students in such a school and impartially advocated and the student should, as in any other branch of learning, have that right given to him. I think what is disturbing in the matter that has been raised by the honourable member is that there is a stream of partisan literature, of inaccurate literature, in some cases I believe of literature designed against the best interests of Australia, which is poured in by the people to whom the honourable member referred without any attempt whatever to place a question impartially before students, which is what should be done. 
As usual, the honourable member has not quoted correctly. I did not regret that the Liberal Party was unable to get its message across to school children. What I did say, and I believe it to be quite accurate, is that there is a concerted attempt not to present a question for decision but to present a distorted, inaccurate and false case deliberately entered into not for the purpose of instruction but for the purpose of propaganda by the honourable member. 
I can quite understand why the honourable member thinks it is not relevant, because it is true and he does not like it. It is also relevant - 
It is indeed just as relevant as the attempt by the honourable member - relevant entirely to what he is doing in this matter to try to call school children out into the streets, to take the streets over and prevent their functioning, which is not a matter of instruction but a matter of attempting to use school children as demonstrators for one political party's purpose. There is opportunity for the Government's case on Vietnam, for the people of Australia's case on Vietnam to be known. There is no need for a member of the Liberal Party to go with a member of the Moratorium Committee, and indeed if that were to happen then those members of the Liberal Party who went would, as they always do, be seeking to present arguments for decision by students. Those members of the Moratorium would be seeking to suppress facts and to bring false facts forward, and in that kind of position no proper debate is possible, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 26th July 1968. 
On 13th April 1970. 
Yes. 
No. 
It is hoped that an appointment will be made shortly. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  left Australia on 26th April to visit Japan and Canada. In Japan he met leaders of the wool textile industry and in Ottawa is attending the ministerial meeting of the International Grains Arrangement Conference.  Mr Anthony  is expected to return to Australia on 10th May. During his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  is acting as Minister for Primary Industry. 
I also wish to inform the House that I will be leaving Australia this evening for a brief visit to Japan to take part in Australia's national day at Expo 70. 1 expect to return to Australia on 10th May. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  will be Acting Prime Minister during my absence. 
I gather that the Leader of the Opposition is partly congratulating the Government on having the Bill for the last railway he mentioned before the House, introduced and the subject of debate. I accept that compliment. In regard to the other railway of which he spoke, the Leader of the Opposition would know that the matter of spur lines and other considerations regarding this railway - that is the Adelaide railway - has been one for consultation first of all by a group of consultants and also between the the 2 governments concerned, the South Australian Government and this Government. L believe that this Bill will be very shortly before the House, that it will be coming in this session. But I do point out that the arrangements, when they have to be made between 2 governments and when they have to be consequent upon an investigation by industrial consultants, cannot be pushed or hurried through. 
It has been my intention to make a statement in the House on the matter of developments in Cambodia, not only not later than the end of this week but before this day is over. I think that I should wait until I make that statement before answering any questions. 
-The answer to the first question that I am asked is obviously that I do not know. I do not know what offers are made to individual Ministers by individual people. But I do know that this Government does not believe that offers of shares which may have  a  capital appreciation as a result of them being taken up ought properly to be taken up by Ministers. 
In reply to the second- part of the question,  Mr Speaker,  I would not agree with the proposition put forward by the honourable member. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Grayndler, 1 think in the last session of Parliament, I am myself a shareholder of 150 shares in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd but I think it highly unlikely that that kind of shareholding is going to have the slightest effect on any actions taken by the Government; and other Ministers would be in the same category. 1 can only say,  Mr Speaker,  that 1 do not believe that Ministers should, when the governments in which they are Ministers are engaged in particular arrangements with any businesses, have shareholdings in those businesses or accept offers which are in themselves offers which could lead to  a  capital profit. To give  an  example of the approach that has been made, I know that the previous Minister for National Development in fact divested himself of a number of shares that he held in these companies. This is the general approach that the Government would make. 
I think the answer to the question is the sort of interjection that we have just heard. Yes, I am aware of a tendency to use this kind of language to which the honourable member has referred. It is not entirely, I am afraid, confined to people who runlubritoriums or fruitoriums because governments themselves, and members of Parliament themselves, are not entirely immune from a charge of this kind. I do remember - I think it came from an honourable member of the Opposition in private conversation - that we had our attention drawn in a defence speech to the constant use of 'maritime capacity' instead of the old fashioned 'sea power' which seems to mean much the same thing. 
I was not aware of the dictionary definition of the word 'moratorium' to which the honourable member referred. But apart from the dictionary definition of it, I think that the practical interpretation of it in the minds of those who are using it in this country is fairly clear. I think that that practical interpretation in the minds of many of the leaders of this so-called moratorium is not that it should merely be a gathering to express beliefs or to express desires in a peaceful way without infringing the rights of others because if that were all it was then every member of this Parliament ought to defend that right. But rather it is an intention to have gatherings to go beyond exercising that right and to infringe upon the rights of others, and to sit down in the streets and to bring to bear the wish to break a law because they dislike something which a government has done after being elected by a majority. That kind of approach, I believe, is something which every member of this House has a duty to condemn. 
lt must be perfectly obvious that the Government has considered the need for relief in the lower and middle income tax scales since that consideration led to its announcement about what it would be seeking to do over its term of office, that is, to ameliorate the burden on the very people about whom the honourable member has spoken. I think the honourable member for Cunningham would have been here long enough to know that he can hardly expect me to give him a preview of any Budget actions one way or the other. 
by leave - Honourable members are aware that the State of Queensland has been affected by serious drought conditions for several years. They will also be aware that the Commonwealth has been providing substantial drought relief assistance. Under present arrangements, the Commonwealth has agreed for 1969-70 to meet on a $t for $1 basis expenditure on eligible drought relief measures up to $4m. and to meet the full cost in excess of $4m, and it is currently estimated that the Commonwealth will need to provide some SI 5m under these arrangements in 1969-70. That would bring total Commonwealth drought relief assistance to Queensland since 1965-66 to over $32m. Honourable members will also know that the Premier of Queensland recently proposed certain modifications of existing relief- measures. Following Cabinet consideration of the Premier's proposals, I have now informed the Premier that the Commonwealth is prepared to reimburse the State for carry-on and re-stocking loans made to graziers to enable Queensland to extend the existing limits on those loans. 
The Commonwealth has always adopted a flexible attitude to the limits of drought loans. Our main concern has been that normal commercial sources of finance should first be exhausted and that in making a loan the State authorities should satisfy themselves that the applicant has a reasonable chance of recovery. It will be for the State to determine the new limits, and the rate of monthly payments of loans, in the light of the circumstances of individual graziers. I have also informed the Premier that the Commonwealth is agreeable to his proposal for graziers who have received drought relief carry-on or re-stocking loans under the 1969 drought relief arrangements to have their loans, including any unpaid sums under the earlier 1965 arrangements, consolidated as at 30th June 1970. I understand that the State's objective is to give further relief to graziers by extending the period during which interest will be capitalised and no redemption payments will be required. 
The Commonwealth has also agreed that rebates on the transport of stock for restocking purposes, which at present apply only to breeding stock, should be extended to cover all stock transported for restocking up to a property's normal capacity - whether this involves stock purchased or stock returning from agistment - provided that the stock are held for a minimum period on the grazier's property before being eligible for rebate. In addition, because of the widespread effects of the drought on Queensland pastoral areas and the fact that New South Wales could be a major source of stock for re-stocking when the drought is over, the Commonwealth has indicated its willingness to reimburse the Queensland Government for expenditure on freight rebates on stock purchases in New South Wales for re-stocking and on returning from agistment in that State. 
The existing measures provide for additional carry-on loans to assist droughtaffected graziers with the payment of crown rentals and local authority rates in 1969- 70. We have now agreed to further assistance in this regard in the form of grants to the State to enable it to meet half the cost of rates payable in 1970 by graziers who have experienced drought for more than 2 years in the 2 droughts of 1965-67 and 1969-70 and who are demonstrably in need of such assistance. 
Even before allowing for the additional cost in 1969-70 of the agreed extensions to drought relief measures to which I have referred, the Commonwealth contribution towards drought relief measures in Queensland this year would be easily the largest amount ever provided to any State for drought relief in a single year. The Government believes that the additional measures which I have now announced will make a further substantial contribution to the relief of those farmers and graziers in Queensland who continue to be affected by drought. 
by leaves - 1 am pleased to announce that the Premier of Queensland and 1 have agreed on the details of establishing Commonwealth and State royal commissions to inquire into the risk of damage to the Great Barrier Reef from drilling for petroleum. The royal commissions have been established under the Commonwealth's Royal Commissions Act 1902-1966 and the Queensland Commissions of Inquiry Acts 1950 to 1954. The Commissioners and the terms of reference will be identical for each royal commission. The Commissioners are: The Honourable  Sir Gordon  Wallace. Sydney, New South Wales, Chairman;  Dr James  Eric Smith, Plymouth, England; and  Mr Vincent  John Moroney, Calgary, Canada. The terms of reference for the royal commissions are: 
Taking into account existing world technology in relation to drilling for petroleum and safety precautions relating thereto, what risk is there of an oil or gas leak in exploratory and production drilling for petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef? 
What would be the probable effects of such an oil or gas leak and of the subsequent remedial measures on - 
The coral reefs themselves; 
The coastline; 
The ecological and biological aspects of life in the area? 
Are there localities within the area of the Great Barrier Reef and, if so, what are their geographical limits, wherein the effects of an oil or gas leak would cause so little detriment that drilling there for petroleum might be permitted? 
If exploration or drilling for petroleum in any locality within the area of the Great Barrier Reef is permitted, are existing safety precautions already prescribed or otherwise laid down for that locality regarded as adequate and, if not. what conditions should be imposed before such exploration or drilling could take place? 
What are the probable benefits accruing to the State qf Queensland and other parts of the Commonwealth from exploration or drilling for petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef and the extent of those benefits? 
The area of the Great Barrier Reef referred to in the above terms of reference includes the entire area from low watermark on the mainland of Queensland to the outer line of the Reef and includes also the area outside and adjacent to the outer line of reefs. These agreed terms of reference incorporate some improvements and changes of a drafting nature from the agreed terms announced on 29th January following the conference on that date between the Premier and myself. 
The Premier and I are pleased that 3 persons of such eminence have agreed to be the Commissioners.  Sir Gordon  Wallace recently retired as  President  of the Court of Appeal of New South Wales. He had previously been a judge of the Supreme Court of that State. While at the Bar he held office as  President  of the New South Wales Bar Association in 1957-58 and VicePresident of the Law Council of Australia in 1957.  Dr Smith  is a Doctor of Science, a Fellow of the Royal Society, Director of the Plymouth Laboratory of the Marine 
Biological Association of the United Kingdom,  Chairman  of Trustees of the British Museum of Natural History and  Chairman  of the Indian Ocean Biological Centre Consultative Committee. He has held teaching appointments at the Universities of Manchester, Sheffield and Cambridge and for some years was Professor of Zoology at the University of London. He has served on the Science Research Council of Great Britain and on the Council and Committees of the Royal Society of London. As Director of the Plymouth Laboratory, he organised the research undertaken by the Plymouth staff on the effects of the 'Torrey Canyon' oil pollution on marine life.  Mr Moroney  is a consultant petroleum engineer with experience in problems of off-shore operations. He has had over 40 years experience with oil companies in engineering and managerial positions throughout North and South America. He graduated from the Georgetown University and is a member of the Canadian Institute of Mining an. Metallurgy and of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers. 
The inquiry would be an open one  and  the royal commissioners have sufficient authority to collect any evidence required. All interested parties could appear before the commission and  state  their views and adduce evidence to support those views. The commissioners will  make  announcements on arrangements for the hearing of such evidence. Counsel assisting the royal commissions will be  Mr A.  E. Woodward, O.B.E., Q.C., of the Victorian Bar and  Mr C.  E. K. Hampson of the Queensland Bar. I present the following paper: 
Great Barrier Reef, Royal Commission on Drilling for Petroleum - Ministerial Statement, 5 May 1970. 
Yes. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper.  DR PATTERSON (Dawson) [5.37]- I make this request because the Opposition has considered this matter and would like to move an amendment seeking to make an addition to the terms of reference. The Opposition has no argument with the terms of reference. The first one deals with the risk and this calls for a physical interpretation. It asks: What are the risks involved? They may be reduced to mathematical standard errors or they may be a generalised standard based on experience in other parts of the world. The second term of reference deals with the probable effects of such an oil and gas leak on the coral reefs themselves, the coastline and the ecological and biological aspects. I admit this could have some cost put on it. On this commission are two scientists, technical people, and I am sure the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  would agree that these matters are in the realm of physical science. They deal with the physiological aspects of the inquiry. A third term deals with the safe areas. I would take issue here because I think that the commission has an impossible task in defining an area. There are very wide areas within the Great Barrier Reef area itself which are still virtually uncharted and for a royal commission to define geographically some of these areas, such as the eastern part of the Cape York Peninsula, as being safe or not safe for oil drilling would be a tremendous task involving tremendous knowledge of the Reef. The fourth term of reference relates to safety measures. 
Up to this point I think that everybody would agree that these are physical measures. However, we must ask what benefits will accrue to Queensland. Benefits in every language mean benefits in terms of dollars. If it means simply qualitative benefits, it is virtually meaningless. It has to be benefits accruing, and I am sure this is what the inquiry is directed at. If there is an oil strike what can this mean in terms of dollars to Queensland and to the economy of Australia? We have no argument about this, but I suggest that it would be extremely difficult to measure. However, if we can measure the benefits, as anybody trained in economics knows, we have to be able to measure the cost. That is why the Opposition proposes as an amendment an extension to the terms of reference. It is virtually the same as the fifth term of reference. 
There are benefits if there is an oil strike, but what are the costs that will accrue to Queensland in the event of a blow-out, for example? This is really what has been the great argument throughout Australia. On one hand the Queensland Government has been talking of tremendous development benefits, but on the other hand biologists and others have been referring to tremendous costs. It is of no good for the Prime Minister or anyone else to say that costs cannot be measured. Of course they cannot be measured in their entirety. The 'Torrey Canyon' disaster, with the oil spilt, involved about $30m. The Santa Barbara incident involved another quantitative factor. In the Royal Commission's findings someindi cation should be given of the tremendous cost to this nation in the event of an oil spillage or a gas leakage. The Opposition is moving an amendment, because it believes the proposal is lopsided. 
The first 4 terms of reference deal with physi cal aspects and relate to risk, the ecological balance and the effects on the coral reefs and coastline. They are physical aspects. AsI have said, it will be difficult to define safe areas in the Barrier Reef. 1 doubt whether Mandrake could define them. Safety measures can be worked out by mining engineers but surely if we include the fifth term of reference there must be some indication of the cost involved if something goes wrong. For that reason I move: 
Thatthe following words be added to the motion: andthat the terms of reference of the Royal Commissions be extended to include the probable costs which will accrue to the State of Queensland and other parts of the Commonwealth from oil and gas leaks in the area of the Great Barrier Reef and the extent of those costs'. 
I should think that the Prime Minister would welcome this amendment because it is consistent with all the statements he has made. We have to consider the 2 sides of the question - the benefits and the costs. If it is good enough to consider the benefits, it is good enough to consider the costs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is the amendment seconded? 
by leave - For some years North Vietnamese regular forces, and other forces controlled by North Vietnam, have been withdrawing across the Cambodian border after battles in South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese have built, in Cambodia, base camps in which their forces could rest, refit, regroup, and be prepared for further military action against allied troops in South Vietnam. 
This military disadvantage was endured with great forbearance by United States and South Vietnamese forces - for even though the neutrality of Cambodia was being violated by the Communists, the Allies continued to hope that the protests of the Cambodian Government might lead to a cessation of the North Vietnamese invasion. This was a vain hope and since the displacement of the Sihanouk Government by the Lon Nol Government in Cambodia, North Vietnamese and forces controlled by them have extended and expanded their invasion of Cambodia's neutrality. 
There has been a gradually increasing violation of this neutrality - a violation which was grossly wrong in itself - which was carried out by a nation which had signed the Geneva Agreement to respect Cambodia's neutrality - and which increasingly gave a military advantage to the enemy and posed growing military danger to Allied forces in South Vietnam. 
The North Vietnamese have extended westward from the bases they had been occupying. They have attacked, in Cambodia, administration centres, communications and populated areas in Eastern and South Eastern Cambodia. And along with this increasingly cynical and increasingly overt invasion, they have taken steps designed to create a zone in Cambodia, occupied by them, along virtually the entire length of the South Vietnamese border with Cambodia. As President Nixon pointed out, they have embarked on a programme to make Cambodia a vast enemy staging area and a springboard for attacks on South Vietnam along 600 miles of frontier. 
They have in fact begun a wider invasion, and embarked on a course which poses greater military dangers to Allied forces than before. This new military threat, increased in gravity, has led to South Vietnamese and United States forces taking action to protect themselves by crossing the border into Cambodian Territory occupied by the North Vietnamese. The decision, reached by the  President  of the United States, was taken on operational military grounds and was designed to protect the lives of Allied servicemen. 
Those who condemn this decision, as the Government does not, must either argue that there has not been an increased threat to Allied forces as a result of North Vietnamese action - and this is scarcely arguable or tenable - or they must hold that it does not matter whether there has been an increased threat or not - that regardless of increased danger Allied forces should be left in that danger from the flank and should not try to prevent it. We do not accept this. 
Our own Australian forces are not engaged in this operation and I see no prospect that they will be. But the effect of the operation could well be to make all Allied forces in South Vietnam, including our own, more safe. Our own objective for Cambodia is known. We wish to see a neutral Cambodia - a country which is not used by anyone as a base or a battleground; a country which enjoys in truth that freedom from interference, that real neutrality which it was guaranteed under the Geneva Agreement and which was breached by North Vietnam. 
We will try by diplomatic means to bring this about - and to bring about a method of international inspection designed to ensure that respect for the neutrality of Cambodia is real and is continuing. For let mc make this clear. We do seek a Cambodia whose neutrality is respected in fact and in truth. We do not seek a Cambodia which is called neutral but which is occupied in greater or lesser part by North Vietnam. For this would be a continuance of the pretence which has prevailed. It would not mean that the neutrality of Cambodia was real. And it would mean that South Vietnam was endangered. 
In the Government's view this is the situation. The neutrality of Cambodia has been consistently and progressively violated by North Vietnam. The increasing tempo of the violation has posed an increasingly grave military threat to the lives of Allied servicemen. It has also, by widening and escalating the war, threatened to prolong it, and to delay vietnamisation and to delay the time when Allied forces could be withdrawn. 
The action taken by the United States and South Vietnam was action to protect the servicemen against attack by an enemy which was increasingly occupying a neutral nation. We understand the reason for their action and we find it odd that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should, on behalf of his Party, viciously criticise that action. It is worth noting,  Mr Speaker,  that so far as I know not one member of the Opposition, at any time, has criticised the violation of Cambodian neutrality during the last 5 years by the North Vietnamese. (Honourable members interjecting)- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been advised by the Minister for Labour and National Service as follows: 
As a result of agreement recently reached between the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Waterside Workers' Federation, employees in the stevedoring industry will receive 4 weeks annual leave which I am informed was on the basis that they can be required to work 3 shifts per day, 7 days a week. 
Following my discussions on 1st December 1969 wilh a joint deputation of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, the Government decided that having regard to existing relevant circumstances it would be inappropriate to grant an extra week's leave to the Commonwealth Public Service at that time. This is still the Government's view. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume that the reference in this question is to the principles of the Australian Parliamentary Group of the World Association of World Federalists. lt is my understanding that this Association's principles are based on the view that problems of war and hunger and disease can no longer be handled within national boundaries. The Government agrees with this view, as is demonstrated by its active participation in international organisations set up to deal with these problems. Insofar as the association seeks the establishment of a world government, however, it is clear that most states are not yet prepared to surrender their sovereignty to a supranational authority. 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for External Affairs to question No. 391 (Hansard, House of Representatives. '17th March 1970, page  525). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Holders of Australian passports engage in a wide variety of activities throughout the world. It is not the policy of the Australian Government to cancel passports issued to Australian citizens of good character. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act 1968, a total of $3. 65m was paid to the States in 1968-69 as shown in Part A of the following schedule. Under the States Grants (Aboriginal 
Advancement) Act 1969, a total of $5.41m has been provided for payment to the States in 1969-70 are shown in Part B. 
I  would say at the beginning that  I  am happy and  I  believe the Government is happy that the demonstrations were peaceful demonstrations. On the other hand,  I  am not at all sure  - I  have grave doubts - whether many of the Communist organisers are equally happy that they were peaceful demonstrations. As for the other part of the honourable member's question, Government policy is to be determined at the ballot box on policies put to the electors at election time. These were put to the people of Australia at the last election and they were determined.  I  can assure the honourable member that that will be the democratic way in which this Government will formulate its policies; not as a result of marches in the streets. 
There can be no doubt in anybody's mind that this Government does subscribe to freedom of association and to the rights of people and citizens to express their views even when they dissent from the Government or dissent from any other mode of authority. We in fact  -  I said this in the House the week before last - believe that every member of this Parliament ought to support the right of an individual to be able to demonstrate bis beliefs. We do not believe that the individual has a right to interfere with the rights of other people when demonstrating those beliefs nor to break the law in so doing nor to lead to actions of violence by refusing to accept that they are breaking the law. These are 2 quite distinct things but the honourable member can be quite sure that, insofar as peaceful expressions of opinion which do not interfere with the rights of other citizens are concerned, the Government is concerned to support them. 
The honourable member obviously cannot have listened to the question that was asked of me and the answer which I gave only a few minutes ago. I was asked whether the Government approved of freedom of association. There was no mention of Melbourne or Melbourne streets or any other particular locality, but whether one approved of freedom of association, and the answer I gave I will now have pleasure in repeating: That we do approve of that, that we do believe that ought to be supported by ali members of Parliament, and we equally believe that when the false claim is made that there is a right for people to associate to interfere with the rights of other citizens or to break the law then every member of Parliament ought to resist that, and these are the principles to which I gave an answer on a question of principle. 
If I can, first of all, refer to the State of Tasmania, to which the honourable member referred, I would point out to him that, in the case of the State of Tasmania, it was left with a record deficit owing to the bad management of the previous Labor government. It was therefore necessary for that State to be given some assistance, it having been left in such a bad situation, as was done previously when the State of South Australia was left with a record deficit after a Labor government had gone out. So this has nothing to do with it. 
In reply to the second part of the question I would say that the Premier of Victoria who has been in power in that State for many years has made a number of promises for the development of that State and that all of them, as far as I know, have been kept. I therefore have no doubt that he will be able when he is re-elected, as he will be, to keep the promises that he has made on this occasion. I would point out also to the honourable member that according to the Financial Agreement as it at present exists there will be increasing sums of money available to State governments to enable these kinds of things to be done; and, of course, any alterations that are made in this Agreement would enable more to be done than otherwise would be the case. I have no doubt at all that the Premier of Victoria will be able to carry out the forward looking programme which he has put before the people of Victoria and that he, unlike the Government of Tasmania, will not be hamstrung by a record deficit left by a previous Labor government. 
I am afraid I cannot assure the honourable member that 1 remember some naval exercise, which, I think he said, was scheduled to take place before the last election, off the- 
Or whether one was foreshadowed. The honourable member might know whether it was. I am afraid that this was not a matter which came to my attention. As for the development of Cockburn Sound, the House will remember that this was part of the policy placed before the people by this Government and steps are being taken to develop Cockburn Sound. I suggest that if the honourable member wishes to know what steps already have been taken and what plans are in hand for this project, he should ask the Minister for Defence with whose portfolio it would rest. 
The honourable member is quite right when he says that I was unable to attend the function given at the Japanese Embassy recently, a function which is given every year on the occasion df the birthday of  His  Majesty, the Emperor of Japan. The pressure of business here in the House prevented that, and I have no doubt whatsoever that the Japanese Embassy fully understood that that was so. If 1 ever had any doubt about it, that doubt would have been completely expelled by what I believe 1 can call the success of the visit subsequently made to Japan and of the contacts made between the Australian Government and the Japanese Government. If I may say so,  Mr Speaker,  it seems to me to be a denigration of this Parliament to ask a question as to whether attendance or non-attendance at a cocktail party has great effects on international affairs. 
In answer to the first part of the question, I would point out to the honourable member that the Premier of Victoria and the Premier of South Australia are both engaged in election campaigns and are therefore not eager to have an early meeting. I would also draw the honourable member's attention to the statement made yesterday by the Premier of New South Wales in which he pointed out that this is so and suggested that there should be postponement and a delay in resuming the talks about which the honourable member is asking. Perhaps if the honourable member had read the newspaper article he need not have bothered to ask the question. 
In reply to the second part of the question, in some cases of course section 95 grants are made for particular purposes. If it is suggested by the honourable member, as I think it is, that all moneys made available to States should be earmarked for particular projects and the States themselves should have no decision as to what way they are to spend their money, then that, I would suggest, could be described as a centralist attitude, and I would not agree with it. 
1 have not had my attention drawn to the reports of which the honourable member speaks in any significant way and, indeed, normally this question would be answered by the Minister for External Affairs. But I would point out to the honourable member that there is a difference between our desire to see that a country is not overrun by aggression and have all its rights taken away and the exercise of non-democratic power in various nations in the world. I have no doubt at all, for example, that in such countries as Communist China and North Vietnam there is far more depravity in the treatment of prisoners, far more baseness, far more whatever other words the honourable member used, thar. can be found anywhere in the world. 
Just a moment, just one moment. 
Yes.  Mr Speaker,  I have, necessarily intermittently, studied the speech, because of other matters pressing in. But certainly I have been working on expressing the views that we have - interpretations we have - of the papers that are on the table and I would hope to be able to make those views public in the House tomorrow. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  is leaving Australia today to lead the Australian delegation at a conference of Asian and Pacific countries on the Cambodian situation - a conference which is being held in Djakarta on 16th and 17th May.  Mr McMahon  is expected to return to Australia on 18th May, and during his absence the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is acting as Minister for External Affairs. 
I have not seen the statement referred to. Perhaps it is a newspaper report. I do not know from which source the honourable member got that information. 
In reply to the last part of the question I would not think it was necessary to make a statement to clarify the Government's policy because I would have thought that it was well known, but if the honourable member believes he would like to have a statement made I would be glad to take it up with the Minister for External Affairs. I think that the use of Australian aid - the way in which Australian aid is given - is perhaps as beneficial to the countries receiving it as is the giving of aid from any other country and perhaps more beneficial. It is not oriented towards our trade and indeed it is not aid which is sought by us to be repaid which is the case in so many other countries. I thought these matters were indeed well known and that our interest in them had been shown just recently by the announcement by the Minister for External Affairs of the increase in the aid which was being provided to Indonesia. In reply to the first part of the honourable member's question, one of the matters which I took up in conversation with the Prime Minister of Japan was that I thought it might well be worth examining whether there did turn up in some of the countries in our region in which we are both well developed countries some programme in which there could be cooperation between the 2 countries. I do not know whether this will in fact eventuate but I do think it is worth examining because both Japan and ourselves are, if 1 may put it this way, the most developed countries in this particular region. We both have a significant interest in the region and for the purpose of building up the region itself, which is of importance to both of us, both from the point of view of its economic stability and its political stability, this could be of advantage. Also forms of cooperation between our country and Japan could in certain circumstances be of advantage. This is something merely put forward for examination but as to the general matter of foreign aid, I think what we are doing is fairly well known. 
Yes.  Mr Speaker.  This has engaged my attention and the attention of others who are concerned with the running of the Houses of Parliament. It is not an easy matter to decide, lt is not an easy matter on which one can come to a fina4 conclusion. On the one hand it is essential that in a House of Parliament all honourable members should be able to ask questions to examine a government, to seek to find out what is happening and, indeed, to get information. On the other hand, if this is carried too far - that is to say, if it is abused - then undoubtedly it could tie up large numbers of members of the top echelon of the Public Service who have other work to do. It is obvious it could be carried to that length. When you have a situation which we have had when 130 questions are placed on the notice paper by 1 member in a day, many of those questions requiring much research, either it will take a very long  time  for those questions to be answered or it will tie up people who have other significant work to do. 
T go back to what I had to say at the beginning. It is a matter of common sense and self discipline among al) honourable members. There can be no attempt to stop people asking questions to elicit information. That should be understood. But it should also be understood that if thousands of questions are placed on a notice paper then it will take a very long time to answer them, and that is what would happen, or it will tie up large numbers of public servants who have other things to. do. The problem which the honourable member for Evans has raised is quite definitely there and this is not a statement made by me as Prime Minister or by me as spokesman for the Government because I think some members of the Opposition also understand this. The problem is there: the solution is one of common sense and self discipline. 
I think the honourable member is slightly wrong. They have something in common besides the name - they have the same Minister. For the rest, these are clearly matters of policy which I could not attempt to answer at question time. 
I think it depends entirely on the politicians. 
 Mr Speaker,  this motion, if it is now in order - it has been seconded - would be accepted by the Government as a motion of censure which would supersede all other business. 
The answer to the first question - was I aware that 22nd April was dedicated to protect the riches of the earth - is yes. The answer to the second question is yes. The answer to the third question - would I support a moratorium or demonstration to do the same thing in Australia - is no. What I would support is the motion proposed by the honourable member for Henty which suggests that this House should appoint a select committee to go into the problem in order to solve it. That appears to be, from the legislature, the best way to solve these problems rather than marching in the streets. 
by leave - This is not a statement on the control of off-shore minerals or on the need to decide where proper legal authority for that control should lie. That is best left for a discussion of the Bill. But last Friday the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  placed before the House his interpretation of meetings with the States and his belief that the Commonwealth Government had broken commitments which he had made with the States. I think that that interpretation is mistaken and 1 believe 1 should put on the record the Government's interpretation in this matter. In February 1969 Cabinet decided that the Commonwealth should legislate to assert total rights over the seabed outside the 3-mile limit. It deputed the Minister for National Development to inform the State Ministers for Mines of this decision. This,  Sir, was  not an offer to the States. It was not an approach which said: 'If you agree to us legislating for control outside the 3-mile limit we will agree to you controlling inside the 3-mile limit'. It was simply a clear and unequivocal statement of intention on the part of the Government. 
At the Australian Minerals Council  meeting of  3rd March, the Minister made a statement setting this out very clearly. The statement begins on page 39 of the transcript and the significant words are on page 41. They are: 
As to off-shore minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the three-mile limit, lt proposes to legislate in pursuance of this position. 
On page 44 of the transcript the Minister was asked: 
When do you intend to legislate? 
And he replied: 
No date has been set but I assume it will be done as soon as is reasonably possible. 
From that time forth all the discussions  and  all the proposed arrangements were held against the background that the Commonwealth had announced its intention to legislate and to legislate as soon as was reasonably possible. The Minister undertook at that meeting that there would  be  further discussions wilh the Stales before the legislation was actually introduced. But those discussions were not to be on whether the Commonwealth would legislate, or when it would legislate, because clear statements of intention had been made on that. They were to be discussions on consequential matters which would arise as a result of the legislation we had announced - matters of administration, royalties and things  of  that kind. Such discussions were in fact held in September 1969. The March 1969 meeting closed with the ordinary, normal, machinery provision that the next meeting of the ^Minerals Council, to discuss these matters, would be held in Perth in February 1970.  [hen  on 30th July the former Minister for National Development wrote to me. He said that he wished to write to the States and indicate that he was unable to hold a  meeting  before the one scheduled for February  1970, and he also wished to write to them to  tell them that the Commonwealth would not legislate unilaterally until there had been  an  opportunity  to  discuss fully  and  frankly the views he had expressed to them  at  the March meeting. I replied  on  18th August raising no objection to his writing to the 
States on the general matter of the meeting. However, I said: 
I would want to avoid if at ali  possible  a situation where the Commonwealth became committed to long drawn out discussion or consultation with the States on this matter. For this reason I would prefer that you eliminate from your proposed letter the suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on this matter. 
I think the Minister fully understood that I did not want to give any assurance to the States that we would defer legislation, for after receiving my letter the Minister did not write to the States in the terms he had proposed, or, indeed, write to them at all. Further, I think the Minister was in no doubt that the introduction of legislation did not depend on prior agreement with the States, for his quotation from his letter lo me of 30lh July is immediately followed by a paragraph in the same letter, which reads: 
In the meantime my Department ia pressing on with the basic work necessary for the preparation of legislation. This will be of value whether or not we eventually succeed in achieving an amicable arrangement wilh the States. 
The 'amicable arrangement' referred to was on the regime - not on whether we should legislate. The Minister then arranged, or agreed to, a meeting of the Minerals Council to be held on 26th September 1969. That meeting was held against the background I have just outlined. That is. the State Ministers had been told by the Minister that we proposed to legislate as soon as possible. The discussions which had been suggested were not discussions on whether or when we should legislate, but discussions on the administrative and other consequential effects of our legislation on what is called the regime. And the Minister was proceeding on the basis that the introduction of legislation did not depend on agreement being reached with the States. 
I can see no evidence in the records before the House that in the September transcript there was anything to show that this position was changed. The Minister does not retract his previous statement that we intended to legislate. Nor did he retract the statement that we intended to legislate as soon as possible. He did agree that there would be further discussions. There have been further discussions and I have no doubt that there will continue to be more discussions. But I can see no commitment that he would delay our legislation until after those discussions had been held. In short,  Sir, it  seems to me that the transcript shows that wc were committed to further discussions but not to prior discussions. 
What happened was that the State Ministers, through  Mr Griffith,  made an opening statement expressing the view that the petroleum legislation should be taken as the model for further legislation. That is, it was suggested that no attempt should be made to discover where sovereignty and responsibility in this matter legally reside - which was the object of the Commonwealth Government's legislation. The Minister undertook to place these views before Cabinet and,  Mr Speaker,  he had verbal authority to say that he would place those views before Cabinet. This was done by the incoming Minister. Cabinet considered them carefully, but it decided that the question of legal responsibility should in the national interest be determined. 
That meeting of 26th September then discussed, from page 6 of the transcript until page 39, the method by which new titles should be granted in what was called the 'interim' period, or the 'interregnum'. That is, I take it, the period between the date of the discussions and the date when Commonwealth legislation was to be introduced. That discussion on the method of issuing titles arose because the Minister had told the States in March that pending the introduction of the legislation he had announced to them he did not wish the States to issue new titles outside the 3-mile limit unless the Commonwealth had first concurred. 
The States did not wish to accept this. They wished to issue titles themselves out to the continental shelf, with the Commonwealth merely having the authority to object if there was a Commonwealth head of power involved. It was this matter with which the discussions of 26th September were concerned, from, as I have said, page 6 to page 39 of the transcript. I can see in them nothing to substantiate the claim that they contained any commitment, or any agreement, as to whether or when the Commonwealth should legislate. But the former Minister thinks he does see in them passages which show he entered into a commitment. So I will examine these passages which he quotes, for while I do not for a moment reflect on his own beliefs, I do not think that the passages he quotes support his own beliefs. He quotes a passage from his letter to mc, which reads: 
I will suggest that the matter be taken up at the next scheduled meeting of the Minerals Council, which is set down for February 1970. 
And he says rightly that I did not object to this. But this means merely that the Minister had written to me saying he did not feel that he could propose a firm date for a meeting before February and the matter' referred to is the discussion on the administrative arrangements consequent on the Minister's announcement that we intended to legislate. Next he quotes a passage from page 18 of the transcript in which he agrees to hold a meeting in December, instead of February, if the States wish. This is evidence that there was to be another meeting or meetings, but that question was never in doubt. In fact there have been meetings and there will, I am sure, be more, but it is not a commitment that nothing would be done by the Commonwealth before there was a further meeting or meetings. After all, we had already announced our intentions to legislate as soon as possible and discussions had to be held on matters flowing from that discussion. 
The former Minister next quotes  Mr Griffith  on page 24 of the transcript: 
I have pressed you to a meeting in December and with this in mind - the possibility of the status quo arrangements being continued until Iiic Commonwealth and the States come to a mutual arrangement - I would gladly withdraw and suggest you call the meeting when you are ready. 
The former Minister asks: 'Are not those the words of a man who believes he has entered into an agreement?' But the transcript shows that the answer to that question must be no, because what  Mr Griffith  was saying to the Minister was: 'Let us - the States - continue to issue titles as we are doing at present. Do not change that during the interregnum. If you will agree to this I will not press for an early meeting.' But the Minister replied that he could not agree to the suggestion as put and that if the States issued titles without first conferring with the Commonwealth - 'It is on your own head.'  Mr Griffith  at once replied - page 26 of the transcript: 
It looks to me as if you will not come our way  at  all. You are not proposing to budge an inch from the March statement. You are not prepared  to  give us anything. 

 Mr Speaker, those are not the words of a man who believes he has entered into an agreement. The next passage quoted, from page 30, is an exchange between  Mr Griffith  and  Mr Bowen  which shows nothing except that  Mr Griffith  was asking what would happen under the legislation which the Commonwealth had said it proposed to introduce to assert control outside the 3-mile limit. The last passage quoted by the Minister arises in this way: The Minister stated on page 36 that in the interim period the Commonwealth could not go further than to say that it would support titles issued by the States if there had been consultations with the Commonwealth, but he would not guarantee to support such titles if there had not been consultations.  Mr Griffith  said he was prepared to leave that matter on that basis and suggested not that the States would accept a later meeting to meet the convenience of the Commonwealth but that they wanted a later meeting - in May - so that there would be an opportunity for some of the members to visit the north of Western Australia at that time. To this the Minister replied: 
All right, and we would have an interim meeting as soon as we are ready to discuss this particular matter. 
Since the particular matter discussed for the last 30 pages of the transcript had been the method of issuing titles in the interim period I think it is difficult to think that this particular matter can refer to anything but that. 

 Sir, I have spent some time on these excerpts quoted by the former Minister because they are the evidence he produces to suggest a breach of commitment by the Commonwealth. I do not think that they support that charge. They do show a commitment to further discussions. But the Government does not think they show a commitment to refrain from announcing legislation before those discussions.  Mr Fife,  a member of the Council, summed it up on page 39 of the transcript when talking about the Press release which might be made. He said: 
I think all we need to say is thai we have asked the Commonwealth to agree to a proposition similar to the off-shore petroleum legislation. Secondly the Commonwealth has agreed to consider this proposal. 
That was all. Yet I do not believe the honourable member for Farrer would make the statements he has made unless he thought he had a basis for them. We have only the transcripts to go on. It may be that there was an impression not shown by the transcripts. Maybe there was an impression left around the table that there would be discussions - not just discussions but discussions before the Commonwealth proceeded on the course or announced again the course which it had previously announced, with additions. But the records do not show it. All they show is that while there was an undertaking for further discussion - which has taken place on some matters - there was no undertaking recorded by the Minister on behalf of the Commonwealth that that legislation would be deferred until after those discussions. 
But, even assuming that there was an impression, an understanding, a feeling in the minds of the people around the table, which does not appear in the records of the meeting - let us assume that that is so - what in fact flows from that? lt would mean, on that assumption, that there was an impression in the Minerals Council that before further discussion the Minerals Council would be informed of the Commonwealth's decision on their proposals to it. Well, the Minerals Council was not so informed, lt was not called together. Tt was not so informed although each individual member of the Council was individually informed. So I suggest that even if that impression was there - and this is not evident in the transcript - that is the most that can be made from that approach. So 1 believe that the records sustain no charge of ill faith. I think the most that can be said of any impression, if there was any, was that the Council was not called together to be told of the Commonwealth's rejection of its proposals for petroleum legislation. 
I think that all these papers arc before the House for analysis by each honourable member. I believe that that seems a flimsy ground on which to accuse the Government of dishonour and it is not supported by the record. I do not doubt for one moment that the former Minister has given his interpretation with sincerity and that he has expressed his views of the feeling of the meeting at which he presided - and he could well be supported by others. I do not doubt that he has given that interpretation with sincerity. But,  Sir, so  has the Government on the record which it has placed before these Houses of Parliament. 1 present the following paper: 
Off-shore Legislation - Commonwealth-State discussions - Ministerial Statement, 15 May 1970 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 I think I must be not as close to the gentleman mentioned,  Mr Santamaria,  as is the honourable member, because he sent me no such communication. I can only inform the honourable member that we have had no blandishments seeking to induce us to recognise Communist China and that the policy of this Government on that matter remains as it always has been and I am sure it is clearly understood to be by the Australian people. 
Yes, I have noticed reports that the British Government is continuing efforts begun some considerable time ago to see how it could arrange to join the European Economic Community. I think that the House will agree that both the Ministers referred to, the Deputy Prime 
Minister who is the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Treasurer, would on behalf of this Government be able to make sure that as little damage as possible was done to Australia's interests should this eventuate, and it has not yet eventuated. 
1 do not think I studied the particular pictures to which the honourable member refers. He did not bring them to my attention, so I am unable to say whether in fact the percentage of teenagers in those pictures was as he states it was. But I do believe, as I have said in this House before, that it is a bad thing to try to drag out into the streets school children or young teenagers in these matters. I do believe, also as 1 have said in this House before, that the discussion of events of national importance and the approaches to them are quite proper matters to take place in our schools and always have been; but I think special efforts to bring out into the streets school children and teenagers are not really in the best interests of Australia and indeed have no special effect on those who consider really what the matters to be decided are and the methods by which they ought to be decided. 
 Mr Speaker,  J cannot remember the date of the Cabinet meeting on which it was decided that the whole question should be placed beyond doubt by legal decision instead of part of the question. The date was some time early in this year. The reason that I would give to the honourable member is that I think most people would agree that it was a good and necessary thing for it to be known without doubt where responsibility lay within these fields and who therefore (a) had the authority to do things and (b) had the responsibility to care for such things not only as the ones he has mentioned but pollution and conservation and other matters. 
1 wish to inform the House that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  left Australia on 16th May for Europe. As Minister Assisting the Treasurer he will lead the Australian delegation to the meeting of the Ministerial Council of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which is being held in Paris between 20th and 22nd of May. After the meeting in Paris, the Minister will visit Britain, Eire, West Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Greece, Malta, the United States and Canada to discuss with the Government's concerned problems and other matters relating to immigration programmes.  Mr Lynch  is expected to return to Australia on 3rd July. During his absence, the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  is Acting Minister for Immigration and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  will represent the Acting Minister in this House. 
I think it must be obvious that if there is divided control and divided responsibility nobody knows who is responsible for action or where responsibility properly lies. It is perfectly proper and acceptable, the question of that authority and responsibility once having been decided, for matters to be worked out in the way which the honourable member has in his mind, as, for example, the off-shore petroleum legislation has been worked out. That, as he will know, can still stand and can still operate after the matter of legal responsibility has been decided. Therefore that does not get affected but what does get affected is the question of who in fact bears the responsibility' for particular action on particular occasions. Let me remind the honourable member, for example, that nol long ago there was a tanker carrying a great amount of oil which grounded in the Barrier Reef. It was within the area which is not known and undefined as to responsibility. With the concurrence of the State Parliament this Parliament passed an Act which operated for a short time to enable that danger to be obviated, but if there had been no such concurrence, and it is perfectly possible to imagine such circumstances, then no-one would have known who had the responsibility and who should be charged with a lack of responsibility if no action were taken. That is an example I give to the honourable member. 
The matter of the Government's intentions was announced in the Governor-General's Speech and before they were announced in the Governor-General's Speech the individual States were informed of the policy the Government had adopted. 
It is right. The intention to legislate having been announced in the Governor-General's Speech, that is a clear statement of a change in policy. There seems no reason why long before the announcement was made there was any need to communicate. 
I am afraid I am not aware of the conditions under which the joint committee has decided - and I take it that the committee itself is the one that has decided - that it shall operate and the way in which it shall take evidence, nor indeed the reasons there might be for it making such decisions. I will make inquiries to sec what the position is. 
The matter of increases in pensions of all kinds is always a matter that has to be discussed in the total Budget context and the total economic state of the nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No doubt  Mr Santamaria  will have read the answer to Question No.526. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  there is a complementary Bill to the Bill at present before the House, as the Leader of the Opposition would know. This will be a Bill setting out the administrative arrangements, covering such things as royalties, fees, method of granting titles - all those matters of administration to be settled. It is hoped that this will be able to be also put in the form of an agreement - heads of agreement between the States and the Commonwealth on these matters. The proposed heads of agreement and the proposed Bill dealing with the administrative matters will be distributed to the States quite shortly and there will be discussion with the States on these matters in an endeavour to reach agreement. This will take place, I believe, early in June. I think 9th June is the date that has been settled. It will be not until after this discussion that we will proceed with the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. 
I have noted what I believe must be the basis of the honourable member's question, and that is that the New South Wales Government has announced a decision in principle to seek to reduce the voting age to 18. There have been discussions between the Commonwealth and the States on this general matter. I have no doubt there will be further dis.cuss ons, particularly in the light of the "New South Wales decision in principle. I think that is all I can say in reply to the honourable member. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to Interim Projections of the Population of Australia (1968 to 2001)' published by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician on 8 April 1969. In this publication the Statistician stresses that the forecasting of population movements is highly speculative and has not been attempted in the projections. 
No such proposals are under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
Exchanges of views take place from time to time between Britain and Australia about developments in the South Pacific generally. The British authorities keep us informed about constitutional developments in respect of their South Pacific territories, including the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. Australia likewise keeps the British authorities informed in respect of the territories for which it is responsible. The question of the political future of dependent territories is essentially one for the peoples of the territories concerned and for the countries which administer them. The British Government's policy with respect to its territories has been stated on various occasions. For example, the communique issued at the 1966 Prime Ministers' Conference in London included the following: 'The British Government stands ready to give independence to territories that want it and can sustain it. For the others Britain is willing to work out arrangements appropriate to each territory that will enable them, if they wish, to continue some form of association with Britain'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1968 provides for pro rata payment on cessation in the following circumstances: 
after 10 years' service - where the employee satisfies the approving authority that his ceasing to be a Commonwealth employee is justified by domestic or other pressing necessity; 
after 4 years' service - where the employee ceases on account of: 
death 
permanent ill health 
age retirement 
retrenchment. 
The 'domestic or other pressing necessity' provision was introduced by Act No. 114 of 1967 and this Act also reduced from 8 to 4 years the qualifying periods in respect of cessation on account of death and permanent ill health. 
A similar reduction in respect of cessation on account of age retirement or retrenchment was made by Act No. 58 of 1968. 
These amendments were made after a review of similar provisions of other long service leave systems. The Public Service Board has advised me that although other systems vary widely, in the broad, the present pro rata provisions of the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act compare favourably willi those of other long service leave systems. 
The matter of general eligibility for furlough for Commonwealth employees after 10 years' service instead of the present period of 15 years will be considered when the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act is next under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Labour and National Service receives - 
under the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1968- 
an allowance of $9,500 a year which is payable to ali members of the House of Representatives; and 
an allowance of $3,350 a year in respect of the expenses of discharging his duties as the member for the electorate of Bruce. A similar electoral allowance is payable to all members of the House of Representatives who are members of an Electoral Division not specified in the Second Schedule to the Act. Under the Parliamentary Allowances Bill of 1970 which is now before the Parliament, it is proposed that the allowance payable in respect of the electorate of Bruce will become $2,750. 
Under the Ministers of State Act 1952- 1968- 
salary of $10,500 a year (payable to all Senior Ministers): and 
an allowance of $4,600 a year in addition to salary (payable to all Senior Ministers). 
The Minister for Labour and National Service, as a Senior Minister, receives a travelling allowance of $30 a day when away from his home in connection with official business but excluding whole days spent in Canberra. 
The then Minister for Labour and National Service received in 1960 - 
under the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1959- 
an allowance of $5,500 a year; and 
an allowance in respect of the expenses of discharging his duties - $1,700 a year. 
under the Ministers of State Act  195H-  1959- 
salary of $6,500 a year; and 
an allowance of $3,000 a year in addition to salary. 
travelling allowance of $24 a day when away from his home in connection with official business but excluding whole days spent in Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated by my colleague, the Treasurer, in reply to Question No. 452 (Hansard, pages 769-770), the deduction of union subscriptions by Commonwealth instrumentalities is a matter for consideration by the instrumentalities concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) At the February Premiers' Conference the Commonwealth offered to increase significantly the financial assistance it provides to the States, lt was proposed that the extra assistance be provided in 4 ways - an increase in the base level of the financial assistance grants, an improvement in the betterment factor in the formula which determines the increase in these grants each year, a take-over by the Commonwealth of responsibility for progressively increasing amounts of existing State debt and the provision of portion of the States' annual loan programmes in the form of grants rather than loans. Discussions on the details of the new arrangements have since been held between Commonwealth and State Treasury officials, but it is not expected that the precise terms of the arrangements will be settled until later in the financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the staff who perform punching operations associated with the preparation of data for processing by computers are designated Data Processing Operators. This group is almost exclusively staffed by females. These female staff are not eligible for equal pay within the terms of the decision of 19th June 1969 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Equal Pay Case. 
I have also been informed that Data Processing Operators received substantial salary increases effective on and from 9th October 1969, resulting from an agreement with the relevant staff associations. The new rates were determined on the basis of appropriate rates for the job, irrespective of the sex of the Operator. However, the few males employed as Operators on 9th October 1969 were permitted, as a special concession, to retain on a personal basis an amount of $428 per annum above the new rates for the job. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By letter dated 2nd June 1969  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  President  of the Australian Conservation Foundation, informed me that a symposium held on 3rd May 1969 and sponsored by the Foundation had resolved that it be recommended to the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments that they collaborate in setting up a joint advisory body or commission in respect of the Great Barrier Reef with certain terms of reference. 
By the above letter of 2nd June 1969. 
The particular question was only one part of the Question on Notice of 10th September 1969 which raised matters which were under consideration by the Commonwealth Government at the time. This was indicated in my answer to the question without notice by the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition on 9th September 1969 (page 927 of Hansard). 
On 29th January 1970 I issued a press statement on a conference which had been held between the Premier of Queensland and myself at which we had agreed to set up an Inquiry into the risk of damage to the Great Barrier Reef from drilling for petroleum. On 9th April 1970 1 wrote to  Sir Garfield  Barwick informing him of progress on the matters he wrote to me about on 2nd June 1969. On Sui May 1970 I made a statement in the House on the setting up of Commonwealth and Queensland Royal Commissions to inquire into the petroleum drilling aspects of the Great Barrier Reef. 
The answer to the first question is no, and the answer to the second question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that where a magistrate in the Australian Capital Territory holding an appointment under the Public Service Act 1922-1968 resigns that appointment to contest a by-election for the House of Representatives, the provisions of section 47c of the Public Service Act are applicable. 
Commonwealth Games: Contribution by Commonwealth Government  (Question No. 1081) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
In the course of my letter of 14th April 1970 to the  Chairman  of the Australian British Commonwealth Games Association, I explained that the basis of our long established support for Australian participation in both the Commonwealth Games and the Olympic Games is that the Commonwealth should not be expected to make a grant to meet a major portion of the costs, but to aim only at arousing the interest of the public and other possible subscribers. Against this background, each request for assistance associated with Australian participation in the Games is dealt with on its merits, having regard to anticipated expenditure, the level of previous grants and the essential responsibilities of both the organisations concerned and the public to raise the funds required. 
In the light of the information provided by the Association on this occasion, and in previous years in relation to the Games held in Cardiff in 1958 and Jamaica in 1966, we estimated that the amount the Association needed to raise to send the Austraiian team to Edinburgh would be substantially the same as in 1958 and 1966. 
With all of these considerations in mind, I thought it would be appropriate for the Commonwealth to again provide an amount of $16,000 towards Australia's participation in this year's Games. I have, however, received a further letter from the Association which is currently being considered. 
I had not seen the offer from the Queensland Bar Association to make barristers available on a rationed basis of 1 per week for 35 weeks. I can see considerable difficulty in endeavouring to present a case before a royal commission if the advocate were to change week by week. But I think it is of importance to Australia that all matters concerning this very significant inquiry should be fully argued and made known before the commission. The commission itself, as I understand it, is able to decide what witnesses would be able to assist it and to provide travelling expenses and fees for such witnesses as come before it. That, as T understand, is within the purview of the commission itself. Should there be organisations or a group of organisations which the commission feels could be assisted by the provision of an advocate before that commission then I would certainly consider approaching the Queensland Government to see whether any action could be taken jointly along those lines. 
lt has been the Government's quite consistent policy to allow arrangements for, and the administration and planning of, sporting fixtures to be left in the hands of non-governmental private organisations. I think it would be a retrograde step if governments - this Government or any government in Australia - were to intervene in this matter and to say that they would not permit sporting fixtures to take place because they did not like the colour of some particular government abroad or because they did not like the policies that some particular governments followed.' 
 I think at the outset I should say 1 believe that this has been a most useful debate and one well suited to this Parliament and I speak of this House of Parliament as a whole. That is not to say that one agrees with all the matters put forward on either side of the debate but it is one which could well and properly occupy the attention of members. I think the objectives behind not just the suggestion made today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but the general attention which is being paid to this matter by private matters, by front bench members of the Opposition, by the Government itself, are held very largely - not entirely - in common. The objectives as I see them are to enable a much greater feeling of participation by private members on both sides of the House, a feeling of actual accomplishment and achievement and, if the work is prepared to be put in of getting more information; and that this information having been gathered by the committees to which we have, made reference should then be able to be brought out with some advantage in the debates in this House itself. So as to the general objectives I doubt if there is very much argument or discussion between us, particularly if the information sought by such committees were to be factual information and not turn into information to be used for the purposes of advocating a particular policy or rejecting a particular policy. I think if that were done the objectives of setting up committees would be lost and the committees themselves would find that they were ultimately doomed. 
That would depend on developments, I think. So I start off,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in that way. It has been suggested here that these objectives could best be met by the setting up of a group of standing committees. That, I think, is subject to question. I do not accept at this stage that this would be the best way in which to approach the problem or to attain the objectives which we have. Certainly, if there were to be standing committees set up then it would be better for reasons which have been advanced in this debate for such standing committees to be joint committees rather than duplicated committees. But that does not mean that one accepts standing committees at all. Of course, when one is considering this question of whether they should be joint or whether they should be standing if they are to be brought in, we need also to remember that there are 2 Houses which make up this Parliament, that this House is unable to say that there will be joint standing committees. Both Houses would have to agree. Either House would have the right, as things are at the moment, to set up its own standing committee quite separately if it wishes to do so. This is a practical matter which we ought to have in mind when considering this problem generally. But I do say that the concept at the present of having standing committees does not seem to me to have been shown to be the best way in which to approach this problem, the problem of getting participation, the probem of getting information and the problem as far as possible of avoiding intrusion into matters of policy which, I think, are not so much in the minds of thos'; who advocate these committees at this stage. 
There have been over the years instances of great service done to the Parliament by select committees as distinct from standing committees now suggested. I think there have not been many such committees set up by this House but there have been over the years a number of such committees set up by the Senate. One which comes to one's mind is the Senate select committee into metric conversion which was of great value and assistance to the final adoption of the metric system in Australia. There is the Vincent Committee report which is still useful. 
That is a quite unfair comment and the sort of comment one would hope the committee system we are talking about might prevent from being made in this House, because it has not been pigeon-holed in fact. It has been a test against which to consider Australian content of television and film shows and some of the actions taken by this Government along those lines have had the backing of the Vincent Committee report. It has been of advantage, I would have hoped to honourable members on both sides, to be able to study that report when these questions came before us. So it is not quite right to say it has been pigeon-holed. There are numerous other reports from select committees set up to examine and make factual reports and general recommendations which I think have been shown to be of great advantage. I think myself that a greater use of this kind of committee in this House would be better than setting up the standing committees of the kind suggested. As I understand it. the suggestion is to set up a group of standing committees each of which is in effect to act as a select committee because only those matters which the Parliament decides should be referred to i! should be referred to it and such matters could just as easily be referred to a select committee set up to examine into and report upon a particular matter. I think the Parliament and both sides of the Parliament should devote more attention to not just the general question of standing committees but to whether there are some kinds of standing committees which could advantageously operate side by side with th. select committees of the kind that I have discussed. For example, an estimates committee or estimates committees to which the estimates of a department or a group of departments could be referred would, I think, greatly help to inform members and to bring about a better Estimates debate. As I understand it, an Estimates debate really ought to be that when a department's estimates are brought before the Parliament members of Parliament should be able to say: Why is this particular vote greater in this year than it was last year? What are the reasons for the increase in that vote? Why was that vote dropped? 
The point I am seeking to make is that at the moment I do not see that kind of examination going on at all. There is opportunity for it in the Committee stage of Estimates debates here. If it does not go on at all perhaps it is a reflection on members of Parliament here generally, but what I was suggesting was that in that field there could be outside of this place committees sitting with the benefit of a Minister before them, with the benefit of public servants before them - not to disclose departmental matters but to give the factual reasons why this vote was smaller than it was last year, why that vote was larger and why a new vote was there. Then when it does come to the Committee stage in this House, as it ultimately would, there would at least be a group of members who would have this information to contribute to a debate in this place. I can see too,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  advantages in a committee which was set up to enable Committee stages which would normally only lake place in this House, to take p;ace before coming back to this House. This is nothing very radical. This is in operation now, as I understand it, in the House of Commons but there is there outside of the chamber a committee to which not all Bills but a particular Bill can be referred. (Extension of time granted.) 1 thank the House for its indulgence. I will not take very long. It is these committees to which Bills in draft could be presented, and it is the function of those committees, as I understand it, not to question the policy which the Bill is brought in to implement. This is to bc done politically in this House. Their function is to question the actual drafting of the Bill to sec whether it does in fact properly carry out the policy which is presented to the Parliament, whether the drafting can be improved, whether without affecting the policy some other matter could be introduced into the Bill or some other matter left out. 
As J understand it, the House of Commons procedure is that the Minister concerned or the public servants concerned appear before a committee, but not to be asked about policy- 
 I am expressing that these kinds of committees could well have great advantage to them, and that I think it would be better for this Parliament generally not suddenly now to say: 'Let us have a whole vast system of standing committees on everything', but rather let us look at those areas in which these- 
Complex Bills, if you like, lt depends entirely on this House. I would myself think, for a start, should such a course be adopted that the sorts of Bills which should go to them are, as I think somebody said, Bills which tend to be complex and also Bills which tend to have very little political content. And there are Bills which tend to have very little political content. There are copyright Bills: there are patent Bills; there are a number of Bills of that kind such as law reform Bills. 
 There are a great number of Bills, on which there being no political confrontation, there could be an advantage to private members on both sides. That, together with the greater use of select committees, would be what I would see as a better approach to the problem recognised. 1 think, by most honourable members in this House. There is one problem which we would be silly to ignore, and that is the practical working of systems as distinct from the theoretical working of systems. It would be wrong for me to say that 1 did not think it possible for an Opposition to use advantages of this kind to obstruct for the sake of obstruction. I am not directing these remarks at this present Opposition or at the Leader of it or at the members of it. 
 The Government has a majority on a committee, but this does not really affect what I am saying, that an Opposition would have in practice the opportunity to delay, if they wanted to, for the sake of delaying, or to obstruct for the sake of obstruction. If this were to happen then the advantages that we can see flowing from such a system would go because the system itself would go. This desire we all have for a greater participation, I think, can be achieved only by gradual steps and by gradual experience to see that this does not happen. There would always be an opportunity and there woul'd always be a temptation for committees to enter into the field, for example, of Government expendi ture and to make recommendations that more should be spent on some project. A Bill would be brought in dealing with some particular matter and there would be a temptation to say: 'There should be more spent on this.' Then another Bill would be brought in on another matter, and there would be a temptation to say: There should be more spent on that.' This would of course, be quite insupportable and would take control of the Budget and of the country's economy out of the hands of the Government, should it occur. As 1 said before, there would also be a temptation to use these opportunities for purposes of obstruction. 
But 1 still think, having these difficulties in mind, as wc all should, that we should strive for greater participation of private members on both sides, for greater factual information and more factual reports from honourable members on both sides to the House. I do not think we have given enough consideration to it or nearly enough consideration to it to say that this will' be met by setting up a system of standing committees in the way in which the Senate is setting up a system of standing committees. I think that is probably liable to be selfdestructive. But i think that it has been of service to this Parliament that the matter itself has been ventilated, and 1 believe that there will be as the Parliament pursues ils course an opportunity for better utilisation of select committees and reports from select committees, and for further and greater in depth discussion on the beginnings of a kind of system such as I have suggested might be possible in the way of an Estimates committee or in the way of committees to which Bills with no political content can be referred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, I have asked that developments in other places be examined and T shall bring the honourable member's question to the attention  of  the State Governments. 
I have to announce that  Mr Peacock,  the Minister for the Army left Australia yesterday for Tonga.  Mr Peacock  will represent Australia at Tonga's re-entry into the comity of nations and joining the Commonwealth of Nations which will be celebrated during the period from 4th to 7th June. The Minister is expected to return to Australia on 10th June and during his absence the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  is acting as Minister for the Army. 
 Mr Speaker,  I feel that honourable members would want me to make reference in this House to the death yesterday of  Mr Robert  Joshua, a member of the House from 1951 to 1955.  Mr Joshua  represented the seat of Ballaarat. He became Leader of the Anti-Communist Labor Party in 1955 and subsequently he was appointed as the first Federal  President  of the Democratic Labor Party, a position he held from 1957 until his death.  Mr Joshua  will be remembered by those who knew him in this place as a kindly man with strong convictions, with a strong sense of his duty to the nation of Australia and with the courage to stick by those convictions and carry out what he believed to be his duty. He was very well respected in the Ballaarat community as a devoted family man and as a leader of the Anglican church. He had too a distinguished war record, saw service with the Australian Imperial Force in the Middle East and New Guinea, was wounded 3 times and was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry. In private life he was an accountant and a member of the Stock Exchange. I extend on behalf of the Government our deepest sympathy to his widow and family. 

 - Mr Speaker, I think if I may I should comment on one or two of the remarks made by the honourable member. What I believe it is essential to discover is legally who does have authority over these particular lands. I am not taking a strong stand either way, other than the stand that it is necessary for the nation to know who is legally responsible for these areas. I am not sure what the honourable member had in mind in relation to petroleum. Perhaps he was referring to the agreement which has been entered into by the Commonwealth Government and the State governments on the question of petroleum from submerged lands. If he was referring to that then he is referring to an agreement which does not settle but deliberately leaves unsettled the question of who has legal responsibility for these areas. In regard to the transference of natural gas from Melbourne to Sydney, which I believe is what the honourable member is referring to, this matter is one which should be decided by the State Government of Victoria and the State Government of New South Wales and whatever group of people they get together to build a pipeline when they decide where they want that pipeline to run. 
Yes, the Leader of the Opposition did have the use of an aircraft during his visit to New Guinea which we will all remember with such regret. He was accompanied on that visit both by some of his colleagues and by some newspaper men. I have no knowledge whatsoever of how he went about inviting either his colleagues or his newspaper men. The Minister for External Affairs, when he attended the conference at Djakarta, also had the use of an aircraft and also had some newspaper representatives with him. I do not know how he went about choosing or issuing invitations to these newspaper men who went with him on that occasion. As for myself, 1 took some newspaper people to Japan. I think that was the occasion of which the honourable member spoke. Invitations were issued on the suggestion of my own Press secretary in order to spread the representation over as large a number of papers in Australia as possible. Finally, I think the last part of the question asked by the honourable member is just plain stupid because if he cares to read a number of the articles written by those who accompanied me on this trip he could not possibly suggest that if they wrote something unpleasant they would not have been asked. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) No. The Commonwealth Service is a career service and staff are entitled to compete for promotion or transfer to positions of their choice throughout the Service, subject to their satisfying any necessary qualification requirements for particular positions. Staff recruited to the Service are initially placed having regard to available vacancies and, where practicable, their personal preferences. 
While the rates paid under Federal awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are legal minimum rates to which over-award payments can be added, the rates paid in the Commonwealth Service are the actual rates prescribed in Public Service Regulations or in determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. However, it has been the policy approach of the Public Service Board to determine pay rates for the Commonwealth Service in the light of rates actually paid by other employers for comparable work, including both the award and over-award elements of the rates actually paid. As recently as December 1969 the Board, following representations from the A.C.T.U., granted pay increases for a wide range of tradesmen and associated categories and support staff in the light of rates actually paid by other employers to comparable employees. 
Yes. 
The Public Service Board docs not consider that there are depressing trends in wage and salary levels in the Commonwealth Service. The Board maintains a continuing policy of reviewing rates of pay in the light of all relevant factors, including rates paid by other employers for comparable work. The Board is constantly engaged in a continuing series of negotiations with staff associations on pay rates and conditions of employment for the various staff categories in the Service. For example, in 1968/69 some 232 consent determinations (excluding duplications) were issued by the Public Service Arbitrator to which the Board was a respondent. As noted above, recent negotiations between A.C.T.U. and the Board let to substantial pay increases for tradesmen and associated categories and support staff. Since then, up-to-date rates for postal staff have also been established by arbitration, and pay rates for a large number of technical sub-professional staff have been determined by agreement with the relevant staff associations. Pay rates for most other areas of the Service either have been recently reviewed or are currently the subject of discussions between the Board and the relevant staff associations. 
Housing Loans: Repayments (Question No. 560) 
I  have been informed by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) A Promotions Appeal Committee has the statutory responsibility (section 50 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968) for making 'full inquiries into the claims of the appellant and those ofthe officer provisionally promoted' and shall in accordance with the Public Service Act 1922- 1968 either 'determine the appeal' or 'make a report to the Board on the claims of the appellant and those of the officer provisionally promoted'. 
Public Service Regulation109f states 'It shall be the duty of a Promotions Appeal Committee to make its inquiries without regard to legal forms or solemnities.' A promotions Appeal Committee is free to adopt procedures which it considers appropriate provided they are procedures under which a Committee inquires fairly into the claims of all parties to an appeal hearing. 
The authority for the constitution of a Promoions Appeal Committee is to be found in section 50 of he Public Service Act 1922-1968 and Public Service Regulation 109d(1) which reads: 
A Promotions Appeal Committee shall be constituted by - 
a Chairman appointed by the Hoard, who. while acting as Chairman, shall not be subject to direction by any person or authority under the Act; 
an officer nominated by the Permanent Head of the Department in which the provisional promotion has been made; and 
an officer nominated by the appropriate Organisation.' 
The appropriate Organisation is defined in Public Service Regulation I09d(1b). 
Public Service Regulation 108b provides that where a senior applicant is not selected for provisional promotion the Permanent Head or the Chief Officer, as the case may be, must inform the Officer of any specific adverse matter which was decisive against his selection. 
The Treasury is still working out the details of the portability of pensions scheme insofar as my information goes. But perhaps the honourable member might like to ask the Treasurer, whose Department has the carriage of this Bill, just what particular stage has been reached. 
I am afraid I am not aware of what the honourable member had in mind when he asked the question. He did not make it clear to anybody else either. I think it was something to do with table tennis at some time in the past. I am quite positive that the Australian Government has not applied racial tests, as was suggested by the honourable member. I also believe that it is right and proper for this Government not to interfere with those sporting bodies, as I was asked yesterday, which make arrangements and administer the sporting events that are held in this country. 
I am advised  by the 
Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 19 March 1970 there were approximately 4,700 local employees (i.e., indigenes) employed in Commonwealth Departments in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
(a) The relevant order by the Governor- 
General under section8s of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 was made on 6 January 1968 and was gazetted on 18 January 1968. The text of that order was: 
WHEREAS by sub-section (1) of section 8a of the Public Service Act, 1922-1967, it is provided that the Governor-General may, on the recommendation of the Public Service Board, by order in writing under his hand, declare that the provisions of the Act and of the Regulations specified in the order shall not apply to an officer or employee, or to officer and employees included in a class of officers or employees specifiedin the order. 
NOW THEREFORE I, Richard Gardiner, Baron Casey, the GovernorGeneral aforesaid, acting with the advice of the Federal Executive Council, do hereby, on the recommendation of the Public Service Board, declare that the provisions of the Public Service Act, 1922-1967, and the Regulations made hereunder, shall not apply to employees, other than overseas employees, employed by Commonwealth Departmentsin the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.' 
The related determination by the Public Service Board under section 8a of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 was made on 31 January 1968. The text of that determination was: 
The Public Service Board, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 8a of the Public Service Act 1922- 1967, hereby determines that the terms and conditions of employment (including rates of payment) of employees, other than overseas employees, employed by Commonwealth Departments in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, being employees in relation to whom an order is in force under sub-section (1) of that section, shall be those specified in the Public Service (PapuaNew Guinea) Ordinance, 1963-1967, the Native Employment Ordinance, 1958-1967, or the Native Apprenticeship Ordinance, 1951-1961. 
(a) The only way in which such an exempt employee of the Commonwealth Service who is not a member of the Territory Public Service may contribute for superannuation is for a certification to be given under section 4 (5) of the Superannuation Act 1922-1969, after at least 3 years' service, that at least a further 7 years' service is likely. No record has been located of submission of any application by a local employee of a Commonwealth Department in the Territory for such a certification to be given. 
These employees have not formed an organisation for the purpose of access to arbitration. However, as a matter of policy the application to them of the general terms and conditions applicable to staff of the Territory Public Service - see (4) below - means that benefits obtained in arbitration by local staff of that Service flow to comparable staff in Commonwealth Departments. 
Exempt employees in the Commonwealth Service, unlike career permanent officers, do not receive promotions, although during their employment they may be advanced to positions above those for which they were initially engaged, depending on working needs and the qualifications and experience of the individual employee concerned. 
The services of an exempt employee may be dispensed with atany time by the ChiefOfficer of the Department in which he is employed. 
In accordance with the Public Service Board's determination quoted in 2(b) above, the rates of pay and other terms and conditions of employment of these employees are generally the same as those applicable to local staff of the Territory Administration and Public Service who are doing the same or similar type of work. However, the Department of External Territories is pressing ahead with consultations with the Territory and Commonwealth Public Service Boards and the relevant Commonwealth Departments on the question of the appointment of all eligible local staff of Commonwealth Departments to' the Territory Public Service so that they have tenure, career opportunities, and retirement benefits applicable to local officers of the Territory Public Service. 
Various arrangements are in operation for the training and career development of local staff in order that they might assume increased responsibility for work now being done by officers of Commonwealth Departments - e.g., Communications Officers in the Department of Civil Aviation, Observers in the Bureau of Meteorology and trades staff in the Department of Works. The Department of Civil Aviation recently offered thirty cadetships for local officers to study at the Institute of Higher Technical Education in Lae and sixteen cadets have commenced so far. Other plans include training in the work of Air Traffic Controllers and Flight Service Officers. Development of further schemes for the training of local staff of Commonwealth Departments in the Territory is continuing. 
The question has nothing whatever to do with me or my Administration. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have no recollection of receiving such an application. 
The honourable member will be able to have his questioned answered when this year's Budget is introduced. 
I am not completely aware of the attitude adopted by the sporting body to which the honourable member refers. I do not think even he could believe that 1 or a government should dictate to private sporting bodies what they must or must not do and the prices at which they must or must not do it. Surely even he would not go that far. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no. The answer to the first part of the question is that the recommendation will be considered by the Government but, unlike the Leader of the Opposition, we are not directed as to what we must do by people outside. 
The Government will proceed with the Bill after the discussions which have taken place, to which the Leader of the Opposition referred, at a time of the Government's choosing. 
1 am not aware, and I have nor been aware, that members of this Parliament - the honourable member or other members - have reached the conclusion that the immigration programme is bad for Australia, as the honourable member appears to suggest. For our part, we have been conducting an immigration programme which, in terms of numbers, has been greatly successful. I would believe that the development of Australia depends upon the bringing of more people to Australia in order to develop it and that from that development will come those funds for schools and hospitals and anti-pollution measures to which the honourable member refers. I would not undertake to support for one moment his suggestion that we should become a static community, and I am surprised to hear it from a member of the Opposition. 

 - His Holiness would, of course, be most welcome in Canberra when he visits this country. Indeed, the Government would be glad to assist, as it does in the case of all visiting heads of state, in general visits to Australian areas. I do not believe that there would be any difficulties in protocol in regard to the matters which the honourable member has raised, but I do understand that the time available to the Pope to visit Australia, and the other commitments which he has during this tour - which is confined not to Australia but to other areas as well - would make it most unlikely that he would be able to visit any area of Australia other than Sydney. But this is a matter for him and his advisers in the Vatican. This is the position as. I understand it. He would, of course, be welcome. 
Since the question seems to be based entirely on Press reports of a private meeting it appears to me that it is not one which is properly within my province to answer., 
I think that in regard to the first part of the question the best way I could answer it would be to send the honourable member the transcripts of various Premiers Conferences al which these matters have been raised. In reply to the second part of the question, which asks what is likely to happen in the future, I think that the honourable member will have to wait until we have another Premiers Conference. 
The Leader of the Opposition has pointed out that the people of New Guinea themselves have appointed a constitutional committee which has been working for some time and with which I have conferred and 1 think with which he has conferred, lt would appear to me that that committee, which is going to report on and suggest the matters which might happen in New Guinea, should continue its work, which would then give an opportunity for debate, if necessary, here without us appointing another committee on top of it. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Third Division of the Commonwealth Services here are the following clerical/administrative classes: - 
I have, of course, no responsibility whatsoever for the actions of other governments in other parts of Australia. If, after consideration, the Government believes that further assistance should be given to Peru, it will announce this, but it will not make that decision on the basis of profits made by individuals in Australia. 
The following information has been provided by the Secretary to the Department: 
-I  refer the honourable member to my answer to a question without notice by the honourable member for Hughes on 15th April 1970 (Hansard 1119). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to a reply I gave on 2nd June 1970 to a question without notice (Hansard Page 2711). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The passports in question were issued in accordance with Government policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Agriculture and agricultural research. 
Automatic data processing. 
Commonwealth office construction and other matters, including contracts, relating to building and civil engineering. 
Communications and broadcasting. 
Civil defence programmes and planning proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to Question No. 1165. 
National Art Gallery: Friends of the Gallery Society  (Question No. 1168) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information, provided by the relevant Departments, regarding formal meetings which have taken place during the period November 1968 to March 1970 is set out in the following table. 
Details given are of conferences and meetings which were attended by Ministers and/or officials of Commonwealth Departments and Ministers and/or officials of more than 1 State. 
There have been other conferences and meetings concerned with policy matters the subjects of which are confidential. Details have not been provided of these, nor of other discussions which occurred as part of day-to-day administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An appropriation of $350,000 was included in the Appropriation Act (No. I) 1969-70 - Division 430/3/12. An additional appropriation of $20,000 was included in the Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1969-70. The principal costs to be met from these appropriations are for motor transport, non-departmental staff engaged in connection wilh the visit, hospitality, communications, printing of. programmes and provision of temporary stands, All costs have not yet been brought to account and it is anticipated thai there will be some carry over to 1970-71. 
The costs of flights by RAAF aircraft of No. 34 Squadron in connection with the Royal Visit will be included in payments to the Department of Air by the Prime Minister's Department from the appropriation for Division 432. 
In accordance with past practice, the salaries and incidental costs of departmental staff who provided assistance, e.g. the staff of the Ceremonial and Hospitality Branch of my Department, the Service personnel who provided guards of honour and Service bands, are met from normal departmental appropriations. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia has decided not to proceed with its proposed High Court application concerning the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decision in the professional engineers case. However, 1 am not aware of the reasons which led the Association to make this decision. (2)I am informed by the Public Service Board that the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia and the Professional Officers' Association have recently lodged new salary claims with the Board seeking increased pay rates for professional engineers and that the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia has also recently corresponded with the Board on this matter. The Board has also informed me that it will respond to these claims after it has completed its consideration of the material submitted by the Associations. 
 I am advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 27th February 1969 the Public Service Board published new determinations relating to a variety of positions, including positions of Cost Investigator, Official Receiver, Investigation Officers in the Department of Primary Industry, Realisation Officers Grade 2, and certain positions in the Commonwealth Taxation Office engaged in assessing, investigation and appeals work. 
In 1965 and 1966, following joint reviews by the Board and relevant Departments, the Board determined that the educational qualifications required for the performance of the duties of these positions would be set at the standard represented by the associate membership examination of the Australian Society of Accountants. 
With effect from the beginning of 1967 the Australian Society of Accountants raised the standard of educational requirements for associate membership. The new standards adopted by the Society required completion of a university degree or a diploma in Accountancy from an Institute of Technology, followed by a qualifying examination conducted by the Society. 
Following these changes the Board, in conjunction with relevant Departments, re-examined the educational needs for the positions referred to and the implications of the new standards adopted by the Society. It was decided that the needs of these positions were met by the previous standards. This decision required a change in the determinations made by the Board in 1965 and 1966 because those determinations were related to the membership standards of the Society. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Parliamentary questions are not a suitable vehicle for the exchange of views on abstract issues in the conduct and organisation of international relations, such as those to which the honourable members questions are directed,I have nothing to add to my answer of 5 May 1970 to question No. 702 (Hansard, page 1648). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that female staff employed as Librarians in the Commonwealth Public Service, including the National Library, presently receive not less than 90% of the appropriate rate received by male Librarians. This basis of payment is by agreement with the relevant staff association and is in accord with the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Equal Pay Cases 1969. The Consent Determination of the Public Service Arbitrator which implemented this agreement between the parties also provides that female Librarians will receive not less than 95% of the appropriate male rate from the beginning of the first pay period to commence on or after 1.1.1971 and the same rates as males from the beginning of the first pay period to commence on or after 1.1.1972. 
No, as in accordance with Government policy, the implementation of equal pay should conform with the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as referred to in (1) above. 
I understand that female Librarians employed by the Parliamentary Library are to receive equal pay on the same basis as comparable staff in the National Library. 
Pollution in Sydney (Question No. 1136) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; it recorded the view of the Committee that the opening of the Australian National Gallery in 1970 could provide the Government not only with a desirable national work, but also with a fitting means of recognising in the National Capital an anniversary of great national importance. 
See answer to part (2) of Question No. 1162. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer which I gave to his Question No. 882. The Public Service Board has informed me that female staff in the Data Processing Operator group are not eligible for equal pay because of the Commission's ninth principle which reads: 
notwithstanding the above, equal pay should not be provided by application of the above principles where the work in question is essentially or usually performed by females but is work upon which male employees may also be employed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A list of works of art dated 1 August 1946 was issued and a copy is held in the Library.The question of tabling a further list will be examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Art Gallery Committee of 
Enquiry recommended that an appropriate scale of building was of the order of 125,000 square feet. The Interim Council believes that a greater area will be needed and is at present considering the matter. 
I understand that the proposed area is of the order of 240,000 square feet. 
See answerto (1). 
 The answer  to  the honour able members question is as follows: 
26 July 1968. 
SirDaryl Lindsay  (Chairman). 
Dame Zara Bate, D.B.E. 
Dame Mabel Miller, D.B.E. 

 Sir Henry Basten, C.M.G. 
Professor J. Burke. O.B.E. 

 Mr W. A. Dargie, C.B.E. 

 Mr J. O. Fairfax. 

 Mr L. W. French, O.B.E. 

 Mr K. B. Myer, D.S.C. 

 Sir James Plimsoll, C.B.E. 
Professor C. F. . Presley. 
Professor Bernard Smith. 
There have been no changes in membership since the original appointment. 
23 August 1968 4 September 1968 21 October 1968 21 February 1969 26 March 1969 10 June 1969 25july 1969 13 April 1970 
In addition the Joint Working Group ofthe 
Council and the National Capital Development Commission have met on 8 separate occasions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; the Committee recorded its expectation that national portraits of historic interest would be situated either in Parliament House or in an archival building of their own. 
National portraits of historic interest are situated in Parliament House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report was tabled in the House on 1 
November 1967 and copies are available in the Library. 
An Exhibitions Officer was appointed on 11 
November 1968 to supervise the work of cataloguing the collection, arrange exhibitions etc. 
A trainee Conservator was appointed on 18 November 1968 and is being trained at the Art Gallery of New South Wales. 
The appointment of a Director who will assist the Interim Council in the design, planning and construction of the National Gallery is under consideration. Negotiations are also taking place with the Public Service Board regarding the appointment of a Curator. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Over the past two years the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board has been vigorously pursuing the acquisition of a collection of Melanesian Art. Recently the Board sought the services of an Australian authority in the field of Melanesian culture who has reported to the Board on his assessment of the collection of Papua, New Guinea and Pacific Islands are now in the possession of the Commonwealth and has recommended courses of action for enriching these collections. The report indicates that, while there are still gaps to be filled, the Commonwealth now has an impressive collection. 
A valuable collection of ancient Indian Khymer and Indonesian art has also been acquired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
and (2) (a) Road Safety- The Committee made forty-six recommendations. Ten of these recommendations related to Commonwealth responsibilities or functions or action at the national level. The remaining thirty-six are of such a nature that their effective implementation must be regarded as the responsibility of the respective States. In five instances commercial and community support is involved with that of the States and the Commonwealth. So far as the recommendations which are of direct concern to the Commonwealth or which require action to be taken at the national level the following action has been taken: 
$18 million is being provided for planning and research including research into road safety. 
A national road traffic code has been endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council and is used by the States and Territories as a model for legislation. 
A limited range of national accident Statistics is compiled from the accident report forms used in the States and Territories. 
Annual pedestrian education campaigns are conducted on a national basis through the mass media. 
The Australian Design Rules require the compulsory fitting of seat belts to the front seats of all passenger vehicles manufactured on or after 1 January 1970 and rear seats by 1 January 1971. The Australian Road Safety Council advertises continuously through the mass media to encourage the fastening of seat belts. 
A number of Australian Design Rules have been produced covering safety features for incorporation into motor vehicles. State Governments are taking the appropriate legislative action for the rules to be applied. Similar action is being taken in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
In I960 the Australian Road Safety Counwas reconstituted to simplify membership on the basis of I representative for each Slate and Territory, 3 Commonwealth representatives and 4 representatives of national non-governmental organisations. In 1965 6 specialist members in such fields as road and traffic engineering research, law enforcement and medical research were appointed. 
An independent Chairman of the Council has been appointed since I960. 
The Commonwealth provides $350,000 per annum for the promotion of road safety practices. 
Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television - Action relevant to the Committee's recommendations has been: 
In August 1966 the Australian Broadcasting Control Board promulgated revised requirements for Australian content in television programmes, effective from 3 July 1967, including specific requirements in respect of the televising of Australian drama and the televising of Australian programmes in peak viewing times. As a result, more Australian made programmes, including drama, are being used. The Control Board is also encouraging the production of worthwhile Australian children's programmes. 
In August 1969 the Government announced the establishment of an Interim Council to Investigate and Report on a Proposal for a National Film and Television Training School. 
An amount of $200,000 has been provided in the current financial year for the establishment and operation of an Experimental Film Fund to encourage and assist the production of short experimental films and for the purchase of television programme time so that the films can be exhibited. 
A Bill was introduced into this Parliament on 5 March 1970 for the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation to assist the Australian Film Industry. The proposed Corporation will administer a fund with an initial capital of $1,000,000. 
In November 1967 a decision was made to establish the Australian Council for the Arts to be the Government's financial agent and adviser on the performing arts and other activities in connection with the arts in general. In 1968-1969 $1,666,349 was provided to the Council and an amount of $2,850,000 was included in the Budget for the current financial year. 
Container Method of Handling Cargoes - 
The Commonwealth and States have agreed that transport problems inside Australia relating to the introduction of container shipping necessitating consultation and joint action, should be submitted to the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
Container ships and ships capable of carrying containers have been introduced into the Australian trades with the United Kingdom and Europe, Japan and New Zealand. Plans are also in hand for this service to be extended into trade  wi  North America. The Government is participating in these developments by decisions made for the A.N.L. to enter the Japanese trade, the United Kingdom/European trade and, in the future, the trades with North America. 
A special study has been made of Tasmanian fruit handling and shipping and proposals are being developed for the unitisation of fruit which will not be lifted by the cellular container vessels. 
The Government is keeping a close watch on the operation of the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
Ports at present being served by feeder services are receiving services at the same rates which apply to terminal ports. 
A 24-hour clearance (pratique) is available to vessels carrying container cargo on arrival at ports which have been designated as first ports of entry for these vessels. At the present time these ports are Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Fremantle. There is now available a 24-hour clearance to all sea vessels arriving at capital city sea ports as their first port of entry. 
The studies are continuing on the standardisation of package units as appropriate to meat, wool and dairy exports. 
The forms of documentation introduced by the container consortia operating in the Australia to Europe trade were only introduced after consultation with the shipper interests, and reflect the wishes of the parties involved. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has agreed to the establishment of a Committee to advise on all aspects of the on road standards of motor vehicles and their loads. 
The Council has also endorsed a set oi draft regulations relating to vehicle construction and equipment and performance standards. Many of the draft regulations have been incorporated in State legislation and include those matters mentioned in the Senate Committee's recommendations. 
The Department of Shipping and Transport published a paper on 27 October 1967 which detailed requirements for the testing, inspection and certification of containers. Provisions covering the carriage of dangerous goods were specified in the Navigation (Dangerous Goods) Regulations made under the Navigation Act 1912-1970 as notified in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette dated 20th March 1968. 
Metric System of Weights and Measures - The Government accepted in general terms the recommendations of the Committee after it had made a full and careful enquiry into the many implications of conversion to the metric system. 
I announced on 19th January 1970 that Australia would convert to the metric system of weights and measures. On 19th March 1970, legislation, the object of which is to bring about progressively the use oi the metric system in Australia as the sole system of measurements of physical quantities, was introduced into the House of Representatives 
Air Pollution - The recommendations of the Committee and the technical implications of effectively combating air pollution are being investigated. 
Medical and Hospital Costs- The Committee tabled an interim report in the Senate on 25th September 1969. Following the 1969 Elections the Senate re-appointed a Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and the Committee is required to produce its full report on or before 30th June 1970. The recommendations of the interim report follow, in the areas of voluntary health insurance, to some degree the recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance (the Nimmo Committee). The Minister for Health in a Statement to the House on 4th March 1970 set out the Government's considerations of the Nimmo Committee recommendations and an examination of the relationship between the recommendations in the 2 reports will indicate the Government's views on those of the Senate Committee's recommendations in the health insurance field. Th- remaining recommendations in theSenate Committee's report will receive consideration after the full report has been tabled 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
If the same question were to arise again, it would need to be looked at in the light of the decision of the House of Lords in Conway v. Rimmer. It needs to be borne in mind that that decision dealt with the power of judicial bodies to inspect documents for the purpose of considering whether a claim of non-disclosure based on the public interest was justified. Any question whether the decision has any application to Parliamentary Committees is another matter and may raise different considerations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There is no conflict between this attitude and the provisions of the Commonwealth Aid 
Roads Act 1969. That Act provides for grants to State Governments, not local authorities, for expenditure on roadworks. 
Yes. 
No. There is no provision in the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 for the payment of grants to local authorities. However, subject to broad limitations arising from the requirement that the major portion of the roads grants have lo be expended on certain prescribed categories of roads or on planning and research, State governments may, at their discretion, allocate any portion of their grants to local authorities. Further, the Commonwealth Act does not prevent Slate governments from allocating their own funds to local authorities for expenditure on rural roads. 
The honourable member may be referring to the Commonwealth grant for expenditure on rural roads, other than rural arterial roads'. The 1969-70 grant for these roads was determined by increasing by 5% the amount which each State government was required to spend on secondary rural roads from the Commonwealth grant provided under the previous Act in 1968-69. The grant for rural roads other than arterial roads for the remaining years of the current legislation increases by  5% per  annum. However, this is not the only Commonwealth grant for rural roads under the new legislation. For the first time the Commonwealth is also making a grant specifically for rural arterial roads and, over the five years ending. June 1974, this grant will total almost $187 million. This means that, including the grant for rural roads other than arterial roads, Commonwealth grants specifically for expenditure on roads in rural areas for the five years will be over $581 million. In  thi  five years ' ending June 1.969 the total of Commonwealth grants specifically allocated for rural roads-that is, for secondary rural roads only - was $300 million. In the case of New South Wales, in the current five years Commonwealth grants for rural arterial roads will total almost $64 million and for other iwa! roads almost $110 million: in the previous quinquennium the Commonwealth grant to New South Wales for secondary rural roads was less than $84 million. 
See answers to (1), (2) and (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The Public Service Arbitrator has advised that as at 22 May 1970 there were 114 matters either unheard or unfinished, and that in no case has an applicant sought a conference or a public hearing and been refused. The Public Service Board has informed me that in addition to a number of these 114 matters to which the 
Board is a Respondnet, there were at the same date, 19 outstanding pay claims lodged directly by staff associations with the Board. If pay claims by several staff associations covering the same group are taken into account, the number of outstanding pay claims is 15 as at 22 May 1970. 
Fire Brigades: Turn out Times (Question No. 972) 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A recent examination conducted by the Commonwealth Public Service Board indicated that whilst there are some localised shortages, there is no general shortage in Commonwealth departments of staff qualified to occupy positions for which the Board has prescribed training in accountancy. 
In the Auditor-General's Office there are some positions to which an officer cannot be transferred or promoted unless he has satisfied the examination requirements of an approved Institute of Accountants and in respect of these positions a cadetship scheme has been established. 
Officers undertaking part-time studies in accountancy may avail themselves of the provisions of the fees reimbursement scheme. Under this scheme an officer who is approved as a student is eligible for reimbursement of all compulsory fees for courses successfully completed and within the limits prescribed by the Regulations, and subject to departmental convenience, time off to attend lectures, tutorials and examinations. 
At present, there is no provision similar to that applying to university graduates for the payment of a minimum level of remuneration to officers who bold diplomas in accountancy. The Public Service Board is closely following recent developments in accountancy courses conducted by Institutes of Technology and Colleges of Advanced Education and will give close attention to the recruitment conditions which might be necessary to ensure that the Commonwealth Public Service attracts a reasonable proportion of the output from the Colleges. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Minister for the Interior announced on 13th May 1970 the Government's decision to site the National Gallery between the Administrative Building and LakeBurley Griffin. He indicated that design studies would now be put in hand for the National Gallery and that the timing of the actual construction of the building would be considered by the Government at a later stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. It is not expected that legislation will be required until the work of the Interim Council, which was appointed to advise the Government on the design, planning and construction of the Gallery, is nearing completion. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee recommended that every encouragement and assistance should be extended to the formation of a Friends of the Gallery Society or similar body. 
No moves towards the formation of such a body have yet come to the notice of the Interim Council or the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee recommended that the Interim Council should 'consider, among other possibilities, the early establishment of an Australian National Gallery Trust Fund'. 
No; the matter does not fall within its functions. 
See answer to (2). 
The matter is being examined de partmen tally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not know. Action has been proceeding as rapidly as practicable towards compilation of answers to the questions, both of which require the extraction of data by all Commonwealth Departments. 1 draw the honourable member's attention to the answer I gave to a question without notice by the honourable member for Evans in the House of Representatives on 14 May 1970 (Hansard pages 2128 and 2129). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Maunsell and Partners was formed as an Australian firm on 1 July 196S. The responsible Ministers have provided the following information in regard to projects for which Maunsell and Partners have been engaged since that date to advise Commonwealth Departments. The information covers the last four complete financial years since 1 July 1965- that is, 1965-66 to 1968-69: 
It is not known whether contractors to the Departments have engaged Maunsell and Partners. 
lt is a matter for the States whom they may engage as consultants in assessing particular projects. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia was represented at the First International Festival at Cagnes-Sur-Mer in 1969 by paintings selected by the Art Adivsory Board and sent from Australia. In view of other commitments in 1970, including a major exhibition of modern Australian painting in South East Asia, the Board recommended that the invitation to participate in the Second International Festival should be declined. 
Subsequently, 10 days prior to the closing date for entries, the Australian Embassy in Paris conveyed an inquiry by the Festival organisers whether Australia could arrange participation by Australian artists in France. The Board was of the opinion that Australia should not be represented at an International festival by an artist or artists simply because they happen to be in the region at' the time; any Australian representation had to be carefully considered and only the best representation should be sent The Board decided that it should not alter its original recommendation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; the Committee recorded its expectation that as Canberra develops provision win be made for the exhibition of examples of industrial design, for a technological museum, for museums of Aboriginal and archaelogical materials and for art education services which will be linked with the Gallery and which the Gallery should notseek to duplicate. 
These matters will be considered as the need arises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 -Mr Speaker, you have already referred to the loss which this Parliament suffered during the recess owing to the death of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death on 31 July 1970 of the  Hon. Sir Wilfrid  Selwyn Kent Hughes, K..B.E., M.V.O., M.C., E.D., a member of this House for the division of Chisholm from 1949 to 1970 and a Minister of the Crown from 195 1 to 1956, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I do not really think that I need to tell this House that Billy Kent Hughes, as we all knew him, was a remarkable man and a fine Australian. In a crowded lifetime of 75 years he time and again demonstrated his courage, determination, integrity and rugged individuality, and with these qualities were combined a high sense of service, exceptional abilities and great humanity, making him one of the outstanding personalities of this Parliament. He was well known as a fearless fighter for the causes he espoused, and in the party room and in the Parliament he was articulate, dogged and outspoken. Many members of this chamber would have often disagreed with him but I believe that most of his parliamentary colleagues, if not all, on both sides of the House, had a respect and an affection for him at all times. As the oldest member of the Parliament be could look back on a lifetime of achievement and service that few men could rival, as scholar, soldier, sportsman, parliamentarian and even poet. He devoted 43 years of his life to service in Parliament: 21 years in this House and before that 22 years as a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly. He was an enthusiastic traveller and had a wide knowledge of world affairs. He was greatly concerned about the defence and security of the country for which he bad fought with such distinction in 2 world wars. He was also an ever-ready advocate for the welfare of servicemen. 

 His own military career began when he enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force shortly after the start of the First World War. He served overseas in the 3rd Australian Light Horse Brigade and the Australian Mounted Division. He was mentioned in despatched 4 times, awarded the Military Cross and ended that war as the youngest major in the Australian forces. He then took up the Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford which he had won in 1914 and went on to gain his Master of Arts degree. The late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes was back in uniform again in 1940, served in Malaya and was promoted to colonel. He was captured by the Japanese at the fall of Singapore and spent 3 years in Changi and other prison camps. It was while he was a prisoner of the Japanese that he wrote one of his best known works, 'Slaves of the Samurai'. In the Second World War he was again mentioned in despatches and was awarded the Efficiency Decoration. 
Another area in which  Sir Wilfrid  gave distinguished service was in the field of sporting activities, both as an athlete in his own right and as an administrator. He represented Australia as a hurdler in the 1920 Olympic Games and in the same year ran in the British Empire versus United States of America Games and the England versus France athletics. In 1938 he was manager of the Australian team at the Empire Games. He became  President  of the Victorian Olympic Council in 1953 and  President  of the Victorian Amateur Athletics Association in 1958, positions which he still held at the time of his death. He was, of course,  chairman  of the organising committee which staged the highly successful Melbourne Olympics in 1956. 

 Sir Wilfrid's political career began in 1927 when he entered the Victorian Legislative 
Assembly as member for Kew. During the next 22 years he held a number of portfolios in the Victorian Government and was Deputy Premier for 1 year. He transferred to the Federal Parliament by winning the seat of Chisholm in the general election of 1949. In his 21 years in this House he was a member of the Privileges Committee, Minister for the Interior, Minister for Works and Housing from 1951 to 1956, and Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs from 1956 to 1961. He was knighted in 1957. 
So much for the official record. Many of us also will have personal memories of events and activities which showed Billy Kent Hughes as the vital personality that he was. We will remember his concern for physical fitness - even last session he could be seen jogging around Lake Burley Griffin most mornings - and his concern for the trim condition be maintained which led to his capacity to continue to wear the uniform which has graced him in 2 world wars. Indeed,  Mr Speaker,  I understand that he used to ride a horse in his Light Horse uniform in Anzac Day marches as a returned soldier of the First World War and then return by car to march as a returned soldier of the Second World War. We will remember him in that uniform at the unveiling  a  couple of years ago of the Light Horse memorial in Canberra, which was another project to which he directed his energies. 
The Parliament and the nation have lost a devoted servant and a great Australian. I believe that we are the richer for his lifetime and the poorer for his passing. To Lady Kent Hughes, his children and grandchildren we who have known him for so long extend our deepest sympathy. 
Another former member of this House died during the recess and it is with regret that I have to inform honourable members of the death on 20th June of Archibald Clyde Wanliss Fisken, C.M.G., O.B.E., M.C., who represented the Division of Ballaarat from 1934 to 1937. Although he was a member of this House for a short period only - I should think none of us here had any personal knowledge of him while he was a member, though perhaps someone did - nevertheless he did perform meritorious public service while a member and was particularly well known and respected in the Ballaarat district which he represented. We extend our sympathy to his widow and family. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The question of the Commonwealth's powers in relation to third party insurance received some attention at Departmental level following receipt of  Mr Power's  letter. 
The Minister for the Interior has advised me that the answer to this part of the question is 'No'. 
The Attorney-General has advised me that it would not be true to say that the Acts of the six States relating to third party insurance are all completely different*. The Acts are by no means identical, but most, although not all, of their important provisions are based on common principles. These principles and the reciprocity incorporated in the legislation ensure that motorists travelling anywhere in Australia have third party insurance cover at all times. One important difference in substance is in respect of the amount that the third party policy must insure. In most States the amount is required to be unlimited in relation to all persons. In Tasmania, however, the amount required to be insured in respect of any one claim of any one person in the case of passengers in the insured's vehicle or members of the insured's family living with him is only $4,000. Another important difference is that in one State, Western Australia  a  special tribunal has been established (the Third Party Claims Tribunal) with exclusive jurisdiction in respect of claims for death or bodily injury caused by or arising out of the use of a motor vehicle. 
The Attorney-General has advised me that there are no doubt occasions when a plaintiff suffering injuries in road accidents has waited for  a  lengthy period before his case is heard and, in  a  number of cases, the plaintiff fails because he has not established negligence on the part of the defendant. In the usual order of things, a person suffering injuries in a road accident will, in  a  proportion of cases, be so injured as the result of his own negligence. 
and (7) The Minister for Shipping and Transport has advised me that the whole concept of third party insurance, including the question of systems other than that at present in use in Australia, was raised for discussion at the Australian Transport Advisory Council's twenty-eighth meeting in Hobart in February 1969. At the meeting it was noted that the New South Wales Government was conducting an inquiry into all aspects of third party insurance in that State, and the Council decided to defer any further discussions on the matter until the report of the inquiry was made available. At this stage, the report of the inquiry is not yet available. 
Yes. 
While in theory the Commonwealth could establish in its Territories a system of liability without fault for road accident injuries and provide for compulsory insurance against this liability without complementary and reciprocal legislation in the States, consequent administrative and legal difficulties would render the system unsatisfactory in practice. 
I have been advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) Not all officers and employees of the Commonwealth Service are entitled to salary increases resulting from the National Wage Case. For example, First Division officers and occupants of offices specified in Group 1 of the Fourth Schedule to the Regulations to the Public Service Act 1922-1968 are not so entitled. 
At the time the Honourable Member put his question upon notice, approvals had yet to be issued by the Public Service Board in respect of only some 800 positions of the approximately 226,000 full-time staff employed under the Public Service Act 1922-1968. These 800 positions have been either - 
provided on a temporary basis (in all cases, these positions have no permanent counterpart); or 
because of the special nature of the employment, are occupied by staff who have been specifically exempted from certain provisions of the Public Service Act 1922-1968. 
The necessary approvals to cover about 750 of these positions had been issued as at 7th July 1970, The remaining approvals will be issued as soon as the necessary investigations presently being carried out by the Public Service Board in conjunction with the Departments concerned have been completed. These investigations cover not only the appropriateness of applying the National Wage Case decision as from 1st January 1970, but also the question of whether further increases from the same date should be approved as a consequence of the additional 6.6% increase for the established physical grades' group. 
The actual payment of the increases to eligible full-time officers and employees was made as quickly as was possible given the numbers involved and the complexity of the task. For example, on 28th April only 15,200 or 14% of eligible staff in the Post Office remained to be paid; all 106,900 eligible Post Office staff had been paid by 21st May. 
I have been advised by the relevant Ministers and the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is not provision for members of the judiciary akin to sabbatical leave. There are no holders of statutory offices under the Commonwealth receiving sabbatical leave. All members of the continuing full-time teaching and research staff of the Australian National University receive study leave. The leave which may be taken varies according to the post held, from one year in every seven years' service to one year in every four. A grant towards the expenses of the leave may be made, provided costs are not less, of an amount varying from $1,000 to $3,200. Study leave cannot be accumulated and cash in lieu is not payable on resignation or retirement. 
Sabbatical leave and long service leave are provided for quite different and unrelated purposes and it is unreal to draw comparisons between the different provisions of these two conditions of employment. Long service leave is provided as a reward for staff who complete a lengthy period of service and is designed to allow an extended paid break from employment for the purpose of rest and recreation. Sabbatical leave, on the other hand, is provided to enable academic staff to better equip themselves for their academic duties, and is recognised as a necessary means by which academic staff may keep abreast of developments in their fields of study in other centres of research and teaching. In a number of Universities academic staff receive long service leave in addition and unrelated to their entitlement to receive sabbatical leave. 
 I have consulted all Ministers and have been advised by them that the following heads of Commonwealth instrumentalities have power to fix salaries without reference to the Public Service Board: 
The Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways, 
The Commissioner for the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority (salaries of temporary officers and temporary or casual employees of the Authority only*), 
The Commissioner for the Export Payments Insurance Corporation (salaries of temporary or casual employees of the Corporation only*). 
The salaries of other staff must be determined subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. 
International Covenants on Human Rights (Question No. 924) 
The Minister for External Affairs has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The consultations referred to in the answer given on 19th March 1970 are between the relevant Commonwealth Departments and began shortly after the adoption by the General Assembly of the United Nations in December, 1966, of the International Covenants on Human Rights. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the Honourable Member to (e) of the answer appearing in Hansard on 12 June 1970 which I provided to Question No. 34 asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the Honourable Member to part (e) of the answer appearing in Hansard on 12 June 1970 which I provided to Question No. 34 asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 refer the honourable member to part (e) of the answer appearing in Hansard on 12th June 1970 which I provided to Question No. 34 asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the Public Service Board that particulars of the 'financial responsibility' of engineers in Stale and local government employment are not available. However, I am also informed by the Board that financial responsibility is only one of many factors considered in the assessment of salaries and that in the recent Engineers' Case, none of the applicant staff associations sought to distinguish the work performed and responsibilities at the various levels in the Postmaster-General's Department from that in other Commonwealth Departments or for that matter from other public or private employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As is clear from the answers referred to by the honourable member, the facts be seeks relate to the responsibilities of the State public services and local government bodies, to whom he might care to direct his enquiries. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A person who holds a recognised university degree in engineering receives  a  minimum commencing salary of $4,213 p.a. or $4,500 p.a. if his degree is a first class honours degree or higher. A person who holds a recognised diploma in engineering from a technical college or similar body receives a minimum commencing salary of $3,867 p.a. 
In addition to the facts in answer to (2) above, it should be noted that  a  class one engineer automatically advances in salary to $5,851 p.a. The maximum of the salary scale for existing qualified technicians is $4,410 p.a. Existing qualified technicians are not eligible for promotion to higher positions until a further qualification has been obtained. The "technicians' emerging in four years' time from the 'new style' training courses now being instituted will advance automatically, on present salary levels, to $5,112. 
 I can name another country immediately. It is New Zealand. Indeed New Zealand, in almost the same words that I used here today, expressed its views through its Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that official papers were dealt with in the ordinary course. 
I do not know. I have not inquired and do not propose to inquire about any private letters or personal possessions belonging to the late  Mr Holt. 
Aboriginals  (QuestionNo.  236) 
 The Public Service Board has advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under section 17 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 the Public Service Board has the statutory duty to devise means of improving the training of officers of the Commonwealth Service. The Board has kept in close touch with developments in other countries in relation to the establishment of colleges of this nature, which include management training courses in their curricula. The Board has taken the view that, at this stage, arrangements for the training in management of 
The Public Service Board has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
First Division 
The table below shows the number of appointments to the First Division from - 
Officers of the Second Division; 
unattached officers of the Commonwealth Service; (this group includes for example officers who have accepted appointment as a representative of the Australian- Government in another country, officers on leave while in the employment of another government, or officers who have accepted employment in a Commonwealth authority.) 
persons outside the Commonwealth Service. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Education and Science,  Mr. N.  H. Bowen, will be leaving Australia tomorrow for Venice to lead the Australian delegation to the UNESCO Inter-governmental Conference of Ministers on Cultural Policies to be held from 24th August to 2nd September.  Mr Bowen  is expected to return to Australia on 13th September and during his absence the Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  will be Acting Minister for Education and Science. 
I also wish to inform the House that the Minister for External Territories is ill and will be unable to attend the House for a week or 10 days. During the Minister's absence I will represent him in this House. 
I did notice that the Leader of the Opposition expressed the view that the Australian Government should have protested to the British Government or expressed some opposition to the British Government's considering the provision of maritime arms to South Africa under the Simonstown Agreement. The Simonstown Agreement of course is designed to protect the sea routes from England into the Indian Ocean and should Great Britain come to the conclusion that those sea routes can be protected by the actions she considered and that she would thereby be enabled to have safer sea routes and be better ableto maintain in this area and supply in this area her forces, then the Government would not dream of expressing opposition to Britain. If Britain does finally come to some conclusions of this kind we have no intention of expressing opposition. 
I think that the sura was rather more than that which was mentioned by the honourable member, but we can look up the actual figures ourselves. I have no recollection of any undertaking being given. There is a transcript of the proceedings, but 1 have no recollection of such an undertaking. On the other hand, it must be fairly clear that should the measure not be passed then those who voted against it would be placing the States in an entirely untenable position and would be attacking the capacity of the States to carry out their responsibilities for schools, hospitals, roads and the other things which the community wants, and that would obviously require responsible people to see whether such irresponsibility could be repaired. 
The Commonwealth, of course, and indeed the Parliament, has considered the report of  Mr Justice  Nimmo on how to best provide the best health scheme for the people of this country and the Government and the Parliament have taken action to do so. The other matters which the honourable member has raised I suggest come within the ambit of future policy. 
I would like to add something to the answer I gave to the question asked by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I was not sure of the basis of the question. I do recollect a meeting of the Premiers - not the last one but the one before - in which the Premiers were assured by me that should their Budgets for the financial year which has just ended be severely damaged by failure to collect the money which they had budgeted for and expected to get from receipts duty then the Commonwealth would have to provide assistance to them in some way or find some means of assistance so that they would not have to sustain those losses. I will look at the transcript of the subsequent meetings but it occurred to me that that might have been what was in the honourable member's mind. For the rest, I can only repeat what I said, that I have not a recollection of a subsequent meeting. But I will look at it. 
The answer to the honourable membe's question is as follows: 
Whilst all States participate hi the deliberations of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation, the only States carrying out studies for the Committee are New South 
Wales and Victoria. Reports on some studies have been completed by those two Slates. The procedure is not that reports are submitted by States to the Commonwealth Government, but that they are made available to the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation, or its Technical Sub-Committee. 
Both New South Wales and Victoria have completed reports on what are referred 10 as their "private costs" studies. The.: studies are aimed at discovering why firms made particular location decisions and the nature of the particular costs flowing from such decisions. 
The Victorian "private rash' report was circulated to all members ot the Committee, including Commonwealth representatives, in October 1968. The New South Wales "private costs" report was made amiable to the Technical Sub-Committee in May 1970 (all members of the parent Committee are represented on the Technical Sub-Committee). 
The New South Wales private costs report has been published by that State's Department of Decentralisation arid Development, under the title: "Report on Industry Location Survey". The Victorian private costs report has not been made public. 
Answering the last part of the question first, should the artist of whom the honourable member spoke paint the portrait of  Sir Paul  Hasluck, the portrait would automatically hang in Kings Hall. Answering the other parts of the question, I have made no decision on an artist to paint  Sir Paul  Hasluck nor do I think the decision is a Prime Minister's to make.  Sir Paul  Hasluck would no doubt select from a panel of names suggested to him by the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board that artist whom he thought would best paint his portrait.  Sir Paul,  being, as has been stated, a very distinguished Western Australian, would no doubt take into consideration, not to overweight artistic merit, areas from which a proposed painter might come. It would be a matter for the Governor-General himself to select the artist who would paint his portrait. 
I have seen reports to which the honourable member has referred that the ACTU has decided to use industrial action for political purposes. There is no doubt in my mind that the reasons for calling this strike are political reasons designed to further the hopes of the Opposition. I think it is another indication of a willingness on the part of those who support the Opposition to see that nonelected persons outside the Parliament direct or influence elected persons inside the Parliament who are charged with responsibility for the economy of this country. There can be no question that action of this kind can in no way advance the interests of the community in general or of that section of the community which the ACTU purports to represent, but can only cause loss and damage in a senseless way. 
It was alleged by 2 newspaper correspondents - I understand one of them was a correspondent for the New Guinea newspaper - that the villagers of one village had been coerced into attending a meeting at Mendi at which I was present. This matter was investigated because I wanted lt to be investigated. No evidence whatsoever could be adduced to substantiate in any way the truth of these allegations. In addition, the heads of the local councils were meeting at the time these allegations were made and they expressed great indignation at the allegations. They said: 'We are not bush pigs to be pushed around in the way the people who have made these allegations say we have been pushed around. There is no truth in them'. They passed a resolution to this effect. They said: 'The allegations are ridiculous anyway because, although 22,000 of us came in. about 100.000 did not come in and nothing has happened to them'. They made the suggestion that the correspondent for the local newspaper might feel it expedient to come up and see them and repeat the allegations and say what evidence he had to substantiate them, lt is very noteworthy that he stayed a long way away from the area. 
I do not think the honourable member put a wrong interpretation on what the Treasurer said. On the other hand, I do not think the consequences he suggests would flow to low income earners or underprivileged people would flow unless, indeed, they were heavy smokers or drank wine very often or bought such things as cars, furs or jewels which are subject to sales tax. 
I have not seen the reports to which the right honourable member refers, nor has it come to my notice that any government department has been offering advice or seeking to bring pressure on the Government in anything whatsoever concerned with kangaroos. 
An honourable member on the Opposition side says that we have had hundreds of petitions. I do not know what mat has to do with a government department. I am answering a question by the right honourable member for Melbourne. I know of no government department which has offered advice or sought to bring anything to our notice. But I am also quite positive that the Committee appointed by this House, whose terms of reference would be sufficient to cover the question of kangaroos, would not allow itself to be influenced in any way, even if there were any truth in those reports, and certainly the Government would not want a committee of this House to be influenced in any such way. 
I am entirely at a loss to understand why the honourable member should draw to the attention of the House the armed invasion of Czechoslovakia by Communist countries unless he is seeking to suggest that something like an armed invasion or totalitarian action such as Communist action is happening here. 
Well, that seems to be. If he was to suggest that then I would deny it completely. I can see no connection whatever between photographs being taken at protest rallies whether they are taken by police or whether they are taken at the invitation of the protesters as, for example, when they asked photographers to come along and photograph them when they made a violent attack on the house of the Attorney-General. It is well known that agitators of this kind ring up the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial television stations and say: 'We are going to put on a riot. We arc going to put on some kind of demonstration. Come and photograph that so that we will get more publicity.' It is also well known that usually, when in the defence of the citizens of this country those demonstrations, if they pass ali bounds, are stopped, there are screams of police brutality and it seems not unreasonable that there should be a defence for the police by actual photographs of what goes on. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I think that perhaps the first part of the question was based on a misconception because it stated that troops were again being reinforced in the Gazelle Peninsula. To the best of my knowledge no troops have ever been sent to the Gazelle Peninsula. It might have happened a long time ago, but certainly in recent days no troops have been sent there. Possibly the honourable member might have meant police - I do not know. The second part of the question related to the multiracial Council. I think the House would know that both before I went to New Guinea and while I was in New Guinea I made a plea for peaceful discussion between the Mataungans and the Tolai, or at least as many as believed in the multiracial Council. I suggested that a referendum should be held on this matter, if that was the best way of discovering what the will of the people was, and said that the Government would certainly be bound by the results of that referendum. The Mataungan Association refused to have any talks whatsoever and also refused to take any part in a referendum. 
Previous to that I had already done what the honourable member suggests I might do, in the sense of asking whether I would receive the Mataungan leaders as I received  Mr Paul  Lapun and helped in Bougainville, in that I had spoken to a  Mr Kaputin  who had come down here and had suggested to him that the best way to deal with this situation would be to ascertain the will of the people there. He indicated to me that he refused to have any thought of that at all. If he did have any thought abou! H il would have to he an 0Den referendum so that everybody would know how everybody else voted, which is not really the way of ascertaining it. He was completely intransigent about it as he has been ever since. But I have some hopes that other leaders of the Mataungan Association are now willing perhaps to enter into some talks up there and I would hope that if that were to take place a proper resolution of this whole matter could be reached without the dramatics which some of the Mataungan leaders have previously sought to introduce into the matter. 
I would certainly agree that should Cambodia be overrun by the Communists that would pose, I think, more than a danger - a very, very severe threat indeed - to that part of Laos which is still free from Communist invasion. I believe, as I have always believed and as I believe history is proving to be true, that in fact what has been called the domino theory is in operation and would be in operation should Cambodia be overrun. It has been one of the bases of our policy in that area, a basis which has been derided by the Opposition but which I think is now shown to be true. I believe that there is no question - perhaps there is in some people's minds, but there can scarcely be a question in any sensible person's mind who has studied the facts - that the invasion of Cambodia took place long before the United States troops and South Vietnamese troops entered that country and that they entered that country in order to repel the troops from North Vietnam who were already on the soil of that country illegally. 
On the other question which the honourable member has raised I would say that in a sense there is a united front now in that area in that Cambodians, South Vietnamese and, as I understand - although I am not sure - some Thai troops are there; certainly Thailand would be one of the countries threatened by these developments. We have already increased our aid to Cambodia. As has been announced by the Minister for External Affairs and the Treasurer, we will keep this subject under review. 
1 think the honourable member has raised a matter of great importance to the community and one in which the community is greatly concerned. But I am not clear how an Act passed by the Commonwealth Parliament - assuming that were to happen - could be enforced in the State jurisdictions where the pollution mainly takes place. But the honourable member can nevertheless be assured that the Commonwealth Government is aware of and is concerned with (he problems of pollution, though the actual action of dealing with them would, I am afraid, have to be left to the State governments. 
The honourable member is, of course, referring to the arrogant and basically undemocratic attempt by  Mr Hawke  to call a national strike apparently after discussion with the Leader of the Opposition, although I do not know whether he was confirmed or opposed in that by the Leader of the Opposition. To call the national strike apparently without even getting a resolution passed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions saying there should be a national strike unquestionably shows an approach to a Government of this country and to the rights of citizens in this country which rides completely roughshod over the concept of elected members of the public coming to this House and deciding economic and other policies. If, indeed - to use the rather felicitous term which the honourable member has used1 - this economic moratorium is to be a march or  a  strike because  Mr Hawke  does not like the economic policy of the Government then, as the honourable member has clearly pointed out, there can be marches and strikes and riots because he does not like military policies or indeed any policies. This is why this is such a clear attempt to strike at the very basic roots of democracy. For my part I can assure the honourable member that the Government will do all in its power to see that this attempt at disruption does not succeed. 1 can give complete and utter assurance that the suggestion that this Government should confer with this individual on matters of policy will bc treated with the derision and the contempt which it deserves. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the honourable member asked his question, the House has debated (2 June 1970) the general matter of the functioning of the Parliament and members have expressed views on the steps that might be taken to enable members to take a larger part in consideration of proposals brought before the House. The honourable member and I both spoke in that debate. 
Having in mind the work of the Standing Orders Committee of the House, I do not think it is necessary to establish a separate body to review the operation of the Parliamentary system. The Government, however, is sympathetic to the view that measures might be taken to assist members in increasing their knowledge and understanding of proposals brought before the House. 
The honourable member is talking about action which was taken to eject unauthorised squatters from land which had been acquired by the Administration for the purpose of distribution, through application to a land board, to Tolai and Baining people. It is quite true that a number of unauthorised squatters entered upon this land and built themselves shelters while they were there. They had to be removed, and the shelters were also removed. I have had no intimation wilh any veracity behind it that I can check that people had to shelter under trees, because as I understand it these squatters came from villages round about and returned to those villages after that. 
The answer to the first part of the question - do I remember telling the House something on 8th April - is yes. The answer to the second part of the question is yes, probably - certainly if not in a horrible position in a very difficult position indeed as regards very many wool growers. Wool growers grow different classes of wool and they are not all in the same category, but many wool growers indeed. So the answer to that is yes. The answer to the third part of the question is that I believe there could be a great deal more loss and disruption caused to the wool industry by the implementation of ineffective measures, particularly if they do not meet with the wool industry's own considered opinions, than there could be by a proper consideration of all the factors involved. Severe damage could be caused to the wool industry by the sort of impetuous action which 1 believe the honourable member seems to be suggesting. The answer to the fourth part of the question is no, this does not represent a victory for whoever it was the honourable member thought it was a victory for. 
I think that the ordinary public of Australia are indeed disturbed by such manifestations as the senseless disruption caused yesterday by  Mr Hawke,  apparently after some consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. I think they ate also disturbed by the growing spate of strikes which have occurred since  Mr Hawke  gained control of the ACTU and also at the growing pronouncements from this would-be dictator indicating that industrial action is a proper thing to lake if his political desires cannot be achieved through proper political methods. As to inciting people to break the law, I think there can be no excuse whatsoever for those in a community where the opportunity exists to change the law through the ballot box. I am convinced that, if we were to take action in a way which did not interfere with the free expression of opposition and the publication of opposition to government action, but which did prevent it being expressed with licence which interfered with the civil rights of the majority of this country, wc would have the backing of the vast majority of Australians who, again, are disturbed by the practice which has developed of invading public places and private properly in order either to interfere with the rights of citizens or to threaten and intimidate other citizens. 1 believe we would get that full backing and we propose to ask the Parliament to lake such action. 
I think the question, coming from the honourable member, is a little peculiar since, as far as I understand it, he has never evidenced that he would have any objection to taking his pension as a parliamentary member without a means test. If he cares to say he would, he might be placing himself in a different direction from those whom, by indirection, he is attacking. So I think it is a little peculiar that he should adopt this attitude in relation to other distinguished people, one an Australian and one an Englishman, who have served this country in its highest office and who, I believe, in that service had the respect of all members of this Parliament who served at the time when they were Governors-General. 
What we have done in this case is to make an annual pension available to a former distinguished Australian GovernorGeneral whose circumstances suggested that that was appropriate, and we have done the same in the case of a former most distinguished soldier and Governor-General. These are both acts of grace payments and I think that the circumstances justify them. 
I do not really believe that the honourable member should have questioned them in this way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen reports to the effect that these officers are not content with their existing salaries. 
Yes. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the Professional Officers' Association has a general salary claim at present before the Public Service Arbitrator, covering professional categories which are required to possess as a basic entry requirement either a diploma or a degree in' science. Geologists and geophysicists employed at the Bureau of Mineral Resources are included among the categories covered by this claim. I am informed that the public hearings of this claim concluded on 7th August 1970 and that the Arbitrator's decision is now awaited. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
An approach to the Queen seeking confirmation of a State Act repealing in whole or in part any provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act 1894 is made by the State concerned without the Commonwealth participating in any way. I have had inquiries made of the States and I am informed that the only such State Act confirmed by the Queen in Council since 17th March 1965 is the Marine Act (No. 2) 1966 of Tasmania. 
No. 
The States have under consideration a- proposal for the amendment of the Merchant Shipping Act to remove restrictions to which State Parliaments are now subject in respect of their legislative powers wilh respect to merchant shipping. The States have mentioned the proposal in the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General and the Commonwealth has agreed to assist in the matter. A formal approach has not yet been made to the United Kingdom authorities. Consideration is being given to the nature of the amendments that would be appropriate to achieve the purpose. 
1 am not prepared to accept without question the statistics quoted by the honourable member. 
I am not denying them. I am just not prepared to accept them being quoted without question at this time because I doubt whether they were in fact true. They may be. I just express that doubt because it did not seem to me to have been the situation when I was Minister for Education and Science. It may have been. The figures may relate to scholarship winners. However, that is by the way. All I wish to make clear at the start is that I am not, in answering this question, accepting the accuracy of the statistics quoted by the honourable member. Of course, what this Government has done in order to assist pupils to complete their secondary education is to bring in what I think people would call a highly successful secondary scholarship scheme, which is available by competition to pupils at all schools - not merely at private schools - and which enables the last 2 years of secondary schooling to be completed with the aid of that scholarship. In regard to the last part of the question asked by the honourable member, this Government and the State governments provide infinitely more than $50 a year towards the education of pupils in State schools. The $50 to which the honourable member referred is only a fraction of what is provided by the taxpayer through governments to pupils in State schools. Therefore, I think he was perhaps under a misapprehension when he asked his question. 
I read a report in a newspaper regarding the matter raised by the honourable member. I know that this is not the only claim made by an inventor about a device of this kind. In fact there is a claim for such an invention, which I have seen but not seen working, in Melbourne and 1 have asked for an investigation to be made into it.  I  believe that the CSIRO would be prepared to test the claims of inventors of machines of this kind, if it were possible to manufacture simple and cheap devices of this kind then they would contribute quite considerably to cutting down the pollution that comes from motor vehicle exhausts. If that could be done I do not believe there would be a need for the Commonwealth to provide funds for it to go into production. I believe that it would go into production in the ordinary way and be sold in the normal way to car manufacturers and other users of road transport. That, however, is not a matter which has yet arisen. The major part of what I think the honourable member asked was: Does the Government have an interest in seeing whether a device of this kind can he effective and can be used? We would be glad to have one of our instrumentalities help along those lines. 
From memory, the application from the Premier of New South Wales was received by the Commonwealth Government about a fortnight ago. give or take a couple of days. I do not have in mind the exact time it arrived. 
It has already been considered by the Cab- inet, which has reached a decision onit. I donot think that I should now announce what that is in advance of the Premier of New South Wales receiving notification from us, but I believe that when it is announced the honourable member, and any fair minded person, would be inclined to agree that we had dealt with this plea and this urgent situation not only with urgency but with some generosity. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  the first point that I wish to make is that I do not think the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Heyden)  is at all justified in saying I questioned or cast doubts upon his accuracy. What 1 stated was that I did not deny the figures that he quoted but that I was not prepared to accept them without more evidence and more proof. I am still not clear just what figures he is quoting but it seems to me from what he has recently said that he is saying that of those who enrolled in secondary school in 1963 a certain percentage were still at school in 1 968. 
Yes. Of those enrolled in 1963, 20%-odd were still in the final year in 1968. I do not know that that does in fact fully substantiate what he is suggesting because I believe - this we would need to check - that the proportion staying at school longer has been growing from year to year and I would expect that we would find that of those enrolled in 1964 a higher proportion was at school in 1969, and so on. He is just taking this one particular case. For the rest, 2 things are obvious. One is that the secondary scholarship scheme has been of great assistance to a number of secondary school students, enabling them to finish their secondary school education. The other is that as the number of applicants increases, as it does after a new scheme is introduced, so the proportion of awards to applicants naturally reduces, but that does not mean that the number of scholarships that are being provided has become less. Finally I have only this to say: In awarding scholarships to those who have won them we have taken the view, which I think is the correct one, that scholarships ought to be awarded to chose who have proved to be scholars by public competitive examination rather than by other means. 
No. We have had 2 statements already. 
No, save it for the adjournment debate. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 'answer to the first part of this question, see my answer to parts (1) and (2) of Question No. 1242. 
In answer to the second part of the question, this is a matter for the Public Service Board. 1 understand this claim was made following an increase granted by the Board in April 1969 of  li%  in the salaries of these officers. The rates introduced by the Board in April 1969 were increased by 3% on and from 1st January 1970, in accordance with the National Wage Case 1969 decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
This is a matter for the Public Service Board. 
No. 1 am informed that the Board on 3rd June 1969 lodged a formal objection to the claim and that on 8th July the Board subsequently provided the Arbitrator with its considered reply. 
See (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(3) (4) and (5) I refer the honourable member to the reply given on 27th October 1966 in the House of Representatives by the then Prime Minister to a question without notice (Hansard, page 2257) and to the answer given to a question without notice on 7th April 1970 (Hansard (Senate), page 549). 
On the question of sporting activities in Australia, I have in another connection stated in this House that the 
Government does not believe that it should enter into these matters but that the running of sporting activities should be done by the sporting bodies concerned. What the Government did on this occasion, if my recollection is correct, was to provide a giant of some SI 6,000 to the team. No evidence has been adduced to the Government to indicate that the organisers of the team are unable to make up the extra amount required with a reasonable kind of effort. 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes. It has always been the policy of the Government to expect the States to meet the costs of drought or other damage which can be held to be reasonably within their competence and capacity to meet. In other instances, in States where drought assistance has been given by the Commonwealth that has been done only after it has been believed that the cost involved was much more than the State itself could be expected to meet from its own resources. In the case of Western Australia, from memory the total cost involved was under $2m. That is a cost which could reasonably be expected to be met by the Government of Western Australia which, if I recollect correctly, and I believe I do, stated not so long ago that it was ceasing all drought assistance because of an improvement in conditions. 
I cannot tell the honourable member what stage has been reached other than that I understand that the State Ministers concerned have been meeting. They have met, they have been discussing the publication of this survey. But I cannot tell the honourable member any more than that. 
 I am very pleased to have the unsolicited testimony from the honourable member regarding the address I made yesterday morning. I did point out in the course of that address the great problems and tasks that were before the countries of the world in trying to make sure that there was sufficient food to overcome hunger, and I directed some attention towards the paradox of the production which was able to come from so many countries - not Australia alone, but so many countries - but side by side with that the incapacity to sell this on world markets. I think that we would all be agreed that anything that we can do in conjunction with other countries to assist the hungry of the world must attract our attention and our support, and I think that the best thing I can do in this field is to provide a copy of the speech to the honourable member so that he need not go on newspaper reports but he can read all that was in it. 
As announced by the Attorney-General, the Government proposes to amend the Federal Bankruptcy Act in a way which will enable creditors m fact to be protected rather than mulcted. I do not think we can go into a discussion of which particular persons in which particular category and which particular trade or whatever it might be are going to be affected, i think the best thing is to discuss the proposed amendments to the Act when they come before the House. 
It is normal Commonwealth policy in the case of all States to expect the States to bear the costs of natural disaster up to a point which is considered reasonable for their State Budgets to be able to cover. In the case of New South Wales we have informed the Premier that we are prepared, should drought develop - and it is not yet clear that drought would develop; it is still possible that rains would make a difference to the degree of drought in that area, but I say that by the way - to bear all the cost of agreed drought assistance which in general we would expect to follow the kind of agreed drought assistance which applied to Queensland and to other States; we would be prepared to bear all the cost of such agreed drought assistance in excess of $4m. 
Yes, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has made a recommendation, to the Government, which has considered the recommendation, which has agreed to it and which has so informed the Premier of South Australia. The recommendation was for an initial grant for 1970-71 of $5m. This will be, of course, according to the Commission's normal practice, reviewed and the subject of a report in 1972-73 after it has had that time to consider the State's financial position. 
My decision in relation to not the lifting of the curfew at Tullarmarine, but the non-imposition of any curfew at Tullamarine, was taken in accordance with the wishes, as 1 would believe, of all sensible people in Australia who would find it utterly ridiculous that an airport out in the country and therefore not causing a noise damage to anybody should not be able to be used for 24 hours in the day. It was a simple commonsense decision. 1 believe it received acclamation from the people of Victoria and all other sensible people. I am afraid 1 cannot give undertakings in the other areas to which the honourable member referred. 
In reply to the first part of the question, I. have not had a report on this. I will see whether the Department of External Territories has had one and then let the Leader of the Opposition know. Regarding the second part of the question, I think again I had better get a report on it from the Department of External Territories. Perhaps the honourable gentleman might care to ask his question again when 1 let him know I have the report. 
The duty on petrol and other petroleum products which was introduced is, of course, to sustain the general revenue of the Government so that in turn the requirements of the people for various services can be met. 1 have always understood - and I believe it to be a fact - that the oil companies base their prices on the determination of the South Australian Prices Commissioner to whom applications are made. He decides the price at which petrol should be sold. I understand that this is done throughout Australia and is an instance of price fixing which apparently does not meet with the honourable member's support. Nevertheless this is the position as I understand it. If that is so - and it has been for a number of years - then applications are made, figures are put and cases are presented to the South Australian Prices Commissioner who indicates what he considers to be a fair price at which petrol can be sold. Normally in the past - and, I expect, on this occasion - when additional excise has been put on petrol the retail price has increased by the amount of that excise and usually by no more. If a price is agreed to by the South ' Australian Prices Commissioner as the highest price which is a fair price and if garage owners, some importing companies or people of that kind are prepared to work harder, to work longer times and to take lower returns, surely that would not be a matter which we would seek to stop them from doing. I can only answer the honourable member in those terms. 
I have not seen any such submission from the Tasmanian Government. I would not undertake to say that it might not have come into the Department just recently. I doubt it. Certainly I have not seen it. If such a submission should arise I would not be astonished if it did ask for some financial help. In fact, I would be astonished if it did not, having regard to most applications of this kind. 
1 think the honourable gentleman, if he puts his mind to it, might agree that a great deal of this wealth is, in fact, being collected for redistribution to the members of the community in that 471 per cent of the net profits come to the Government in the form of company tax and from the Government go to carry out services for the community. He might also perhaps consider that the dividends paid in the hands of individuals bear taxation which goes back to the purposes for which he wishes them to go. He might also consider that the size of the profit - the actual amount of money in a profit - does not make it an excessive profit. Indeed one has to consider the amount of capital that has been invested and the periods of time in which no profit has been made before one can even begin to discuss whether there is a reasonable return or not on what has been invested. So I would say that when companies of this size do as well as this company has done, having invested as much money as it has invested, as a result of the revenue collected by the Government from the company itself and from individual shareholders in the company the community as a whole undoubtedly benefits from it. 
I will give the request of the honourable member consideration. 
I was not aware that scientists who had attended this conference had in fact given the honourable member those views but I am extremely interested to hear that in fact they do hold those views. I am not sure that one could agree entirely with the way in which they are phrased which is that one should not seek to accelerate education towards self government. If that is to be taken to mean that one should not accelerate self government, that one should not push independence upon the people of this region before they want it, that we should seek to let them make the decision rather than make it for them arbitrarily, then I am sure the views which have been expressed to the honourable member are proper views and in the interests of all the people of Papua and New Guinea just as they are in the interests of the people of Australia and just as they evidence the Government's own approach. 
-] do not know what practical measures can be taken to do what the honourable member suggests. But I am sure that the people of this country and the people abroad know that such action as has been urged by the Queensland Trades and Labour Council - that action being fully in line with Labor Party policy - would not under any circumstances be accepted or put into operation by this Government. We do not believe that if persons form a company and are succesful and expand, and provide the jobs they provide, provide the revenue they provide - if they do all that - and if they are, indeed, as these are, not only almost 50 per cent owned by Australians but pay almost 50 per cent of their profits into Australian revenue, as a reward for the success of that know-how and that application and that good management they should be nationalised and should be taken over by a government. 
Opposition members - Hear, hear. 
As the Opposition has just indicated by saying 'hear, hear', it does believe those companies should be nationalised, but we do not. I can think of nothing more designed to damage Australia's good name abroad or to prevent the inflow of that capital which is needed for the development of Australia itself or could hurt the individual Australian citizens more than this action, being as it is in full line with Labor Party policy. We will have none of it. We can give that firm assurance. 
Pensions of various kinds - age pensions, invalid pensions and the other pensions with which the Budget deals - are not in the same category as hospital costs or nursing home costs. The 2 things are completely separate. The question of nursing home costs has been and is under consideration by the Minister for Health and the Government. We will announce our policy on this matter in due course. We will not announce it before we are ready and we will certainly not announce it at question time because I always understood that questions a, to policy were out of order. 
 I think that the honourable member must be basing his question on a newspaper report. I would be interested to know whether he is able to vouch for the truth of that report since it was a newspaper report, as I read it, purporting to say what happened at a private meeting at which no Press or other media were present. Is the honourable member prepared to vouch for the truth of that report? I ask that because I understand that it is required by the Standing Orders that he should vouch for it. However, we can put that aside if he is not prepared to vouch for it, and apparentlyhe is not. All I can say is that the Government has not yet reached a decision or made an announcement on these matters which are under consideration. When such decision is reached it will be announced, and announced publicly. 
Again we have an instance of the underlying intention of the Labor Party to seek to interfere with and to take over the operations of any successful free enterprise happening, and I am a little surprised that this specific question should have come from the honourable member from whom it came, because there is at the moment discussion going on and arrangements going on between the Queensland Government and a company which is intending to provide at Gladstone very large processes for making aluminium - probably one of the most important development projects in Queensland, made partly possible by this Government contributing loan funds for the establishment of cheap power. What sort of incentive is it to people to risk their money in this kind of enterprise, which the honourable member himself has agreed is of immense benefit to Queensland, if he is going to get up and say that if this is successful then we should take it over? Again,  Mr Speaker,  we will have no part of that. 
The Leader of the Opposition is asking me about a letter received some months ago, the details of which are clearly not in my mind; nor the action taken on those matters. I do think 1 can assure him that I have not replied in terms to any such letter. But what other action has been taken as far as sending it to the Treasury or things of that kind, I cannot recollect at this period of time. 
Without in any way, I hope, suggesting,  Mr Speaker,  that perhaps you should have taken action on this matter, I suggest that the entire question is out of order since the question of the travelling of private members of Parliament does not come within my administration. 
1 do know that numbers of people have been seeking to portray the situation in Vietnam as a struggle between Asian nationalists and white imperialists. Indeed, those who are opposed and have always been opposed to the war have been using this as an argument to support their opposition. They have also been attempting to suggest that it is a civil war which, I think was answered quite clearly in this House by the Minister for External Affairs. Both these attempts to show what is happening in Vietnam are in my opinion completely wrong and completely unfounded. Nevertheless, as the honourable member has said, they have been sought to be put out by, I believe, propagandists. 1 do not think that the question of the entry of  Mr Gregory  into Australia has anything whatever to do with the question of Vietnam. I mean the question of Vietnam in the sense in which the honourable member suggested it had - that it would lend support to those who were saying that in Vietnam the matter was a struggle between Asian nationalists and white imperialists. I do not believe that the refusal of entry of  Mr Gregory  can have any effect on that situation whatsoever. 
The only way in which the honourable member could even pretend that it could have would be if he were seeking to show, or others sought to show, that  Mr Gregory  was refused admission to Australia because of his colour. That is inherent in the honourable member's question. Quite clearly,  Mr Speaker,  this has nothing to do with it. There were 2 individuals who have not been allowed into Australia. One is a negro and one is a white man. So there is no question of colour in that. Nor could I go along with any implication that becouse a person is coloured therefore for that reason he ought to be allowed in when he would not be allowed in if he were white. I certainly could not go along with that suggestion either. I do not think this matter has anything to do with the one first raised by the honourable member. 
We will recall,  Mr Speaker,  that at one stage it was suggested by a leading member of the Opposition front bench that for the purposes of the Moratorium campaign people should be brought here from the Vietcong or from North Vietnam. We would not for one moment have allowed that to happen and I do not see why we should allow other aliens to come here for the purpose of interfering in political matters in Australia, particularly those who have a long record of agitation in these affairs. So I do not believe that this has anything to do with the original matter raised by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that professional staff in CSIRO have made representations in support of salary increases. 
The Government has not considered this matter because the authority for the determination of rates of pay of 'Research Scientists in Commonwealth employment is vested in independent statutory authorities including the Public Service Board or, upon application by a staff association, in the Public Service Arbitrator. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission dealing with the appeals instituted by the CSIRO Officers' Association and the Professional Officers' Association Commonwealth Public Service, against Determinations No. 44 and 45 of 1970, reserved its decision on 6th July 1970 and that the decision is expected on Friday 4th September 1970. 
 The information set out in the following table has been provided by the relevant Departments in answer to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Action has been proceeding as quickly as possible towards compilation of an answer to the question. This has required a considerable amount of research and extraction of data by the Australian Council for the Arts. I would hope to have  a  reply for the honourable member in the near future. 
Taxation: Companies Registered in New Hebrides (Question No. 1696) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of reference of the Interim Council of the National Art Gallery are to advise the Prime Minister upon - 
The design, planning and construction of the Australian National Galelry. In formulating its advice, the Interim Council is to consult and collaborate with the National Capital Development Commission which is responsible for the building of the Gallery, subject to the approval of Cabinet 
The appointment of a Director. 
No. The functions of the Interim Council  are limited to those stated above. Advice on the acquisition of works of art for the National Collection is a matter for the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board. 
 The following answer to the honourable member's question has been prepared on the advice of all Departments. 
No 
See answer to (1) 
(a) (b) and (c) The occupants of the positions listed hereunder are provided with self-drive 
Commonwealth vehicles to allow their official duties to be performed efficiently. Rules governing the use of official transport areset out in Appendix A to Section 6 of the Treasury Directions issued under the Audit Act and Treasury Regulations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In the present circumstances I consider there is no justification for this. 
I might add that following my reply to Question No. 1057 from the honourable member on the subject of the perpetual calendar (Hansard, 3 June 1970, page 2906) inquiries revealed that no Australian State is at present considering the adoption of the calendar. Further, the Department of External Affairs has received advice from the legislative reference authorities in the States of Hawaii and Massachusetts indicating that neither of those legislatures has approved the adoption of the perpetual calendar, nor are any such proposals under consideration. 
I understand also, on advice from the Department of External Affairs, that the Bill, proposing such a calendar, introduced into the United States House of Representatives on 3 January 1970, has been referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs but so far no action has been taken. 
Australian Council for the Arts (Question No. 1608) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whilst there can be no question that honourable members are entitled to obtain information or. the actions and activities of the Government, the line of questioning by the Leader of the Opposition on this and other recent occasions is directed, in my view, to matters of internal administration. If the honourable member wishes to know what action has been taken by the Government to co-operate in a particular field, the information will of course be provided. However, 1 am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in researching and assembling in all Commonwealth Departments details of the kind sought in the question. 
I noticed that it was reported, 1 think by the NCDC, in a public statement that the cost of land in Canberra had fallen over the years and that indeed the cost of building in Canberra had risen very little in the period, which I believe is something standing greatly to the credit of this Government in the development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
-I believe politics come into it when something so much to the credit of the Government is attacked by members of the Opposition. Having said that, I think that what the honourable member is referring to - although I was not here when the question to which he referred was asked, but I think 1 heard it on the air - is an area of land which at the moment is occupied by the Holsworthy military camp. This area of land is retained by the Holsworthy military camp in connection with the defence of Australia and 1 understand it has been agreed with the State Government- 
I am sorry, but I understand there is an understanding with the State Government that the agreed area be retained for military purposes. It does not cover the whole area at present under Commonwealth control. The honourable member for Reid is shaking his head, but I do not believe he has any justification for doing so. I know he is shaking his head because 1 distinctly heard the rattle. This is an entirely different position from land which is under the control of the Commonwealth Government for development in the way in which Canberra was developed. If this land were not in the control of the Commonwealth Government for military purposes it would revert to the State Government; it would not remain in our control for us to be able to repeat in other parts of Australia the great success story that has been achieved in Canberra. 
I believe the man concerned in the case of mistaken identity was a  Mr Tabarang  Marum. He is the aggrieved party about whom the Leader of the Opposition is asking me.  Mr Tabarang  Marum has said that he does not wish to take action against the police since he was well looked after by them and suffered no ill effects, but action against those responsible for the mistake will be considered following examination of the police report by the Administration. The 4 expatriate officers to whom the Leader of the Opposition referred in the second part of his question were charged and suspended in connection with an alleged assault on an indigenous prisoner. Three of the 4 officers were committed for trial in the Supreme Court by the East New Britain District Court and the District Court found that the other, the fourth officer, had no case to answer. One of the officers committed for trial at the Supreme Court was tried before  Mr Justice  Kelly but was acquitted, the judge saying that in view of the evidence given by Crown witnesses and the contradictions of evidence given by Crown witnesses, and in view of the medical evidence, he was not able to be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused officer. As the evidence against the other 2 officers was the same as that which failed in the trial the charges against those officers were dropped. No disciplinary action has been taken against the 4 officers in view of their acquittal by the Supreme Court. 
From time to time the Government has considered possible ways of endeavouring to bring elections for the 2 Houses back into line. But all I think I can say here is that any action that could be taken along those lines would be a question of policy to be decided and therefore does not lend itself to an answer at question time. 
by leave - On 1 6th September 1969 1 made a statement in this House concerning the Government's policy on overseas investment in Australia. In the course of that statement I said: 
In the past the Government has acted to preserve Australian ownership and control of enterprises which for special reasons of national interest or importance could not be permitted to pass into foreign hands. 
And I went on to say: 
We reserve the right to do all in our power to prevent particular takeovers when, in the circumstances of the case, we would consider it to be bad in the national interest. 
There has recently been a discovery of uranium deposits by a company called Queensland Mines Ltd, in the Northern Territory at Nabarlek. The estimates made by the  Chairman  of the Company are that the ore body is so large, and the grade of ore so rich that it would be possible to supply the free world's requirements of uranium at a price considerably below that now ruling. 
The Government does not know that this claim is accurate and it in no way vouches for its accuracy. But it has been made by  Mr E.  R. Hudson, the Managing Director of Queensland Mines Ltd. Should the claim be accurate then there could be a clear temptation to overseas interests to gain control of the Australian companies which at present own these assets. Queensland Mines Ltd is one company concerned and the other is Kathleen Investments (Australia) Ltd which owns 50 per cent of the shares in Queensland Mines. It is therefore dear that control of Kathleen Investments would in fact lead to control of Queensland Mines Ltd. It is a matter of record that in recent days there has been a heavy turnover in the shares of both companies, and although there is no indication that this heavy turnover is as a result of overseas buying, nevertheless the Government would not wish a situation to arise where it could be discovered that control of these companies had passed out of Australian hands. The deposits held by the companies were discovered by Australians, and exploration work was financed with Australian capital. The deposits can be exploited by Australian personnel using Australian technical knowledge and knowhow and can be sold on the world market by Australia. 
The Government feels that if Australia is to reap the full benefit of these discoveries, full control of this development exploration should remain in the hands of Australian companies for the benefit of Australian shareholders and Australia generally. We have therefore decided that it would not be in the national interest for control of these uranium deposits to pass into other than Australian hands. We intend to guard against control of either of these companies being gained through purchases of shares by overseas investors. Both companies are incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. We therefore intend to legislate in order: 
to limit to 15 per cent of the issued share capital the total number of shares able to be held in either com pany by persons not ordinarily resident in Australia or by foreign corporations. Foreign corporations will be defined in general similarly to the definition in the Companies (Life Insurance Holding Companies) Ordinance 1968. 
to limit the number of shares held in either company by any one person not ordinarily resident in Australia or held by any one foreign corporation, to not more than 5 per cent of the issued share capital. 
This means that a total of 15 per cent of the issued share capital can be held abroad but that no one. holder can hold more than 5 per cent of the issued share capital in either company - 
to require any nominee holding, in total, shares in excess of 5 per cent of the issued capital in either company to disclose the beneficial ownership of those shares. 
This action is not to be interpreted as anything other than an attempt to preserve in Australian hands and under Australian management assets which have been discovered by purely Australian endeavours and which may be of very significant benefit to Australia. It is an instance of the working out of that policy announced on 16 September last year, which I reiterated at the beginning of this statement. 
I seem to remember answering this question in this House before. I think I could refer the honourable member to that answer. Briefly it is: Yes, the Western Australian Government did make a request for drought relief. The Commonwealth Government, having considered the volume and extent of finance required, according to the Western Australian Government's assessment of the situation, believed that it was within the capacity of the Western Australian Government to bear this cost, as indeed the Commonwealth Government requires other States to bear initial costs which are in their capacity to bear before it comes in and helps. 
I am not prepared to indicate to the Leader of the Opposition the precise date on which the Bills dealing with receipts duties will be introduced. They will be introduced. 
Quite frankly at this moment I do not know the programme of the House for the next few days. I cannot tell the honourable member and I am sure he would not expect me to know that, to carry it in my head. Ask the Leader of the House sometime. My answer to the rest of the question is: Yes, I noticed what the Premier of New South Wales had to say in the course of presenting a Budget which is going to do an immense amount for education, hospitals and other services in the State of New South Wales, all of which has been made possible bythe  new and  enlightened approach of this Government assisting that Government in the interests of New South Wales. 
-I  have had brought to my attention a statement on this matter alleged to have been made in Queensland by a significant independent authority. As I recall it, it went rather further than did the honourable member in his question.I think the statement was twofold: One part of the statement, as I understand it, said that the State Government had provided funds for farmers in drought stricken Queensland areas to pay half the municipal rates, that this was a magnificent step and that it was up to the Commonwealth Government to take steps to provide additional assistance. In regard to that statement,  Mr Speaker,  I think it should be well known that in fact it was this Government which provided the funds which enabled the people in those areas to pay half the rates to the municipal councils. The Government does this by providing money to the Queensland Government specifically for that purpose as part of drought relief and the Queensland Government then pays it to the municipalities concerned. So in that particular matterI would hope that everyone in Queensland would be able to get his mind completely straight. 
In regard to the second part of the question asked by the honourable member, saying that the great need was for loans at 3 per cent interest or not more than 3 per cent interest, my Government provides loan moneys to Queensland to assist the drought stricken farmers not at 3 per cent interest but completely interest free. This  too shouldbeknownto  the peoplewho get this benefit in the State of Queensland. For last year I believe the assistance provided for drought relief in this area by this Government was around about $14m and it looks as if it will be of that order during this year. That is what I would say in reply to the statement quoted by the honourable member and would trust that possibly the author of that statement might amend or correct it. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Chisholm and Higgins respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extern, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D.Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick andGarran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray, 
Petition received. 
I have no knowledge of the number of questions which the honourable member has asked, nor of their complexity, but it is quite possible, knowing the way in which the honourable member likes to get down to detail in all his negotiations, that the answers required may be as complex as some of the answers he has already come up with and would require a great deal of study. That is probably why it has taken this length of time for these matters to be examined by the Minister. The answer to the second part of the question is no, not even if a personal application is made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
Yes, I have noticed the flights of fancy in which the Premier of South Australia has indulged in regard to this matter. The House might be interested in the history of it. The Premier of South Australia wrote to me asking me to arrange a conference between himself, myself, the Premier of Victoria and the Premier of New South Wales. I replied to the Premier of South Australia on 17th August - although I notice that he has publicly stated that he has never had any reply - saying that I had been in touch with the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of Victoria and would let him know subsequent developments. I had passed on to them his request for a meeting. 
The Premier of Victoria wrote to me agreeing to a meeting in August but in the meantime, by some means of which I am not at all clear, apparently the Premier of South Australia got into direct touch with the Premier of New South Wales - on a matter which he had asked me to handle for him - and correspondence passed between those 2 Premiers. The  Premier  of New South Wales had the good manners and courtesy to provide me with copies of the letters that he was writing to the Premier of South Australia on this matter but the Premier of South Australia provided me with no information, no copies of any letters, no indication that he was dealing directly with the Premier of New South Wales. In short, the discussion between the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of South Australia was that the Premier of New South Wales did not believe that there should be a meeting of Premiers with the Prime Minister at this time and that he preferred that there should be a meeting of Ministers first. I do not know what the Premier of South Australia replied to those letters because, as I have said, he at no time let me know that he was engaged in this correspondence. 
Subsequently I have written to the Premier of South Australia - having given him time to cross the wires up by getting into the matter which he had asked me to handle for him direct - and indicated to him the views of the Premier of New South Wales and suggested that there should be a ministerial meeting which we would be happy to attend. I believe that anyone reading or hearing that sequence of events would not, for one moment, believe that any politics was being played by the Commonwealth Government which has made no statements about this matter, it being, in our view, one which was confidential between the Premier and ourselves, but that apparently does not apply to the approach of the Premier of South Australia. I would also believe that anyone regarding the history of this matter would see it as another instance of the Premier of South Australia not being specifically and deliberately untruthful, except in the one matter of saying that he had not had a reply, but of making statements which give a completely untruthful impression of what has been going on. 
I would not be able to be sure, in answering the honourable member's question, which section of the party to which he refers would ultimately win the struggle which is at present going on. There are undoubtedly - and this must be accepted - some members of the Opposition who do not believe that there should be attacks on all authority or that there should be attacks on the civil rights of the majority of the people. We must accept that there are many members of the Opposition who do not believe this. 
There are many others who do believe that authority should be upheld - I do not want to say that it is a majority or a minority; I would not know. There will be a vote on it amongst you some time. All I am saying is that there is undoubtedly another section which believes that authority should be overthrown and that these methods should be undertaken to overthrow it. Indeed, this has been advocated by a leading member of the front bench on the Opposition side,  Dr Cairns. 
The answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member is no. There is no basis for any rumour that the Government is thinking of suspending wool sales. The answer to the second part of the question is: I do not quite see why  Sir William  Gunn or  Mr Vines  should repudiate rumours without substance when, after all, those rumours are concerned with Government action which it is not intended to take. Thirdly, there has been no stockpiling as a result of the operations to which the honourable member refers. Fourthly, I do not believe there is any substance being given to any of these unsubstantiated rumours by the mere fact, as is well known, that the Government has before it proposals concerning a wool marketing authority. When the Government, which is studying these proposals as a matter of urgency, comes to a decision on them, a statement will be made. 
I have not ascertained whether the Premier of South Australia wrote to the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria at the same time as he wrote to me asking me to get in touch with those Premiers for him. [ find it a little bit of an unusual suggestion that the Premier would not only write to me to ask me to act for him in this matter but, without telling me about it, would also write to the other 2 Premiers concerned. I repeat that I consider it to be, at the least, bad manners that he should then continue this correspondence after what is now said to be an initial letter and not in any case inform me that this was going on while the Premier of New South Wales did have the good manners so to inform me. 1 think it true to say that there was a completely untruthful impression given when the Premier of South Australia said that he had had no reply, whereas in fact he had had a reply saying that I was passing on his request to the 2 Premiers concerned and would let him know when I had received from them the results of their consideration of that request. Certainly it took some time for this to happen because the Premiers concerned had to reply to rae and because the Premier of South Australia had muddied up the waters by entering into, his own correspondence wilh the Premier of New South Wales. All I can say is, it seems to me to be a most extraordinary proceeding for the Premier of South Australia and one that I think merits the charge that was made against it. 
In regard to the other aspect of the completely untruthful impression he gave, I would point out to the Leader of the Opposition that he charged this Government with playing politics on that matter when we had made no statements about it at all and had only sought to act as an agent for him, whereas he had come out in public and made statements on the matter which appears to me to be him playing politics rather than us. In regard to the other matters the Leader of the Opposition has raised, yes. -we have had a letter from the Premier of South Australia seeking to repudiate an agreement which had been made on the railway section between Adelaide and Port Pirie. This obviously requires very detailed consideration by the relevant department. I would not be prepared now lo say how quickly that could be done in a matter of such importance. I do not know who else the Premier of South Australia would be writing to on this matter but no doubt if he is writing to anybody I would be glad if he would let me know so that we can keep the line straight. 
There are 5 questions rolled up in one but I will do my best to remember them and answer them in sequence. I think the first question was: Do I continue to say that we should upgrade - that was the word used - minerals. I think what was involved was that we should process minerals as far as possible. The answer to that is yes, we do. We think that the more processing of minerals that is done in Australia the more valuable the finished product would be for export and the better it would be for Australia in all respects. The honourable member then went on to ask, in effect, whether we should put in an enrichment plant for uranium. I think that the honourable member would know that the cost of an enrichment  plantisextremelyhigh indeed andI would  not think that when he had considered all the facts that he would think that it was a reasonable thing for Australia at this stage to put in an enrichment plant for uranium. The third question, I think, referred to why we refused to ratify the Treaty and whether this was an impediment. The answer to that is no. The reasons why we were not prepared and are not at this stage prepared to ratify the Treaty were fully set out by this Government as they have been set out by the governments of West Germany and Japan. The fourth question was: Were we in some way retarding the progress of technology by suggesting that natural uranium should be used and the answer to that, I believe, is quite simply no. The answer to the fifth part of the honourable member's question is, I believe, also no. 
The answer to the first part of the question, which was whether the  Mr E.  R. Hudson who approached me is identical with the  Mr E.  R. Hudson who is concerned with Glass Containers Ltd, is I do not know. The answer to the remaining parts is: See the answer to part 1. 
There has been an approach to the Commonwealth Government and to myself to meet a deputation from Western Australia, that deputation, as I understand it, being designed to press the case for a higher bounty on gold. I do not recall whether the request for the deputationhasorhasnotasyetreceived an answer, but this question is clearly a question of policy and therefore not eligible for question time. 

 - Mr Speaker, I think this question is a question saying: 'Are there going to be additions made to Parliament House?" 
That is what it boils down to after all that verbiage. I think that that, being a matter of policy, will be reported to this House in due course. 
The honourable member comes from New South Wales and will know that that Government is embarking on a programme of pollution control made possible by the greatly enhanced revenues given to that and to other States by the Commonwealth Government. The question of the reports of the Senate Select Committees is under examination. . 
Undoubtedly the acquisition, subdivison and planned development of land by the Government here in Canberra have had the effect of stabilising land prices. Indeed, this subject is dealt with, if the honourable member would like to go into it in any greater depth, in the 13th report of the National Capital Development Commission. The Government proposes to provide this same approach and the same policies for the development of Canberra's new towns including Woden and Belconnen currently and Tuggeranong in the future, and we trust that this will have the same beneficial effect in the Territory under our control as it has had in the past. I do not think it is proper for me to comment on what States should or should not do within their own areas of responsibility as sovereign States. I would have thought that if this commended itself to the State from which the honourable member comes that Premier might have sought to take some action along these same lines, particularly as he was left with a surplus by the outgoing Government. 
I did notice what the new Prime Minister of Malaysia had to say upon this matter. 1 point out to the honourable member that it is this Government which has taken the diplomatic initiative in an attempt to guarantee the neutrality of Cambodia, which was invaded. 
It is no use twisting your face up like that. Cambodia is a country in South East Asia which was invaded by the Vietnamese, and we did take the diplomatic initiative in endeavouring to protect the neutrality of that country. These are simple facts. The fact that attempts by. ourselves and the other countries engaged with us in that diplomatic initiative had no effect upon those who sought to invade and who are invading that country speaks for itself. I think we would all be pleased if there were no risk of invasion, no risk of fighting to any of these countries in South East Asia. I think that history shows that it would be very unwise indeed to assume that, because one seeks to see that there is no invasion, no invasion will in fact take place from Communist sources. 
IfI can correct the paraphrase of the honourable member for 
Willsforastart,whatIsaidoverthe weekend was that this country was either governed by the results of the ballot box or by people taking to the streets, which is quite a different matter, and that we should be governed by the ballot box and not by actions in the streets. 
The interjection is a good indication that the honourable member has no answer to what I have said. He suggests that I should move on to the next part. The next matter he raised was when he made the quite truthful statement that the people had given to the Commonwealth Government the authority to deal with Aboriginals. 1 would point out to him that since that time the amount of money voted by this Parliament for the good of Aboriginals has increased enormously and that in this last Budget, in spite of the requirement to contain inflation, again we saw an increase for this purpose. Nobody can claim that this Government or the Minister responsible has been in any way recreant in helping Aboriginals with money voted from the taxpayer by this Government through this Parliament. 
-I think that the honourable member must be referring to an organisation which is composed of the national heads of a variety of industries throughoutAustraliawhohavedoneme the honour of suggesting I might eat with them. I did not know it was only going to be a 3-course meal. However I would point out to the honourable member that this very organisation only recently gave a meal to the Minister for Primary Industry who spent his time there impressing on these people the parlous state of many sections of rural industry. That gave the opportunity for that which is in the honourable member's mind to be brought home to those in this group. As I embark on the roast duck 1 will not need to remember the . requirement for Australia to make sure that its costs do not rise to such a level that they take us out of overseas markets. I will not need to do that because 1 am always conscious of it and have made this known on a number of occasions in public as any honourable member of Parliament, whether modest or immodest, will have noticed. I accept the apology from the honourable member for his inability to provide me with a meal at some later stage but, despite that, I will ask him to dinner at some time. 
The answer to the last part of the question is definitely no. The answer to the second part of the question is that I think that any citizen in this country is subject to being questioned as to what he said when he makes statements about almost anything. There is no reason for him to answer. It is apparently thought that attempts to find out the facts are bad things by those of the Opposition. I think this is thoroughly ridiculous the facts which the honourable member objects to somebody trying to find out. In regard to the first part, I do not know, because it has not come directly under my control. But, as I have said before, I see nothing wrong with photographs being taken at public assemblies. 
I have seen what I am told is an official transcript put out by the Leader of the Opposition, indicating that the Leader of the Opposition had made statements along these lines, the statements being that he would advise young men- 
This would be putting me under censorship. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I would like to make it clear that at the time that an attempt was made to impose censorship on what I was saying I had made no comment at all. What I was doing was discussing a document put out, and the facts in that document are of relevance. They are of national significance, because if a Leader of the Opposition who seeks to be Prime Minister should advocate mutiny in the armed forces and that soldiers should disobey their orders, surely this is a fact that in this House ought to be able to be brought out without it being interrupted and it is something that the people of this country ought to know. In this document, this official transcript, there is no doubt that it is a fact that the Leader of the Opposition does say that he advises young men to register for national service, to serve in the Army, but to refuse to obey orders when they are in the 
Armyifthoseordersaregoingtosendthem  to some place which in their judgment they do not believe they should go to. 
What is wrong with that? This is the voice of the Opposition speaking. You can hear if backed up. 
The Leader of the Opposition interjects and says that if people in the armed Services refuse to obey orders this is not mutiny. Perhaps he is taking a legal point that if one or two refuse to obey it is  not  mutiny I do not know. This does not matter. The real point is that he is urging young men in Australia's armed forces to refuse to obey proper lawful commands of the forces in which they are serving. That being so, I  think  it is no wonder that he has gone to such lengths this morning to try to prevent those facts being brought out in this Parliament for people to hear. I believe there is no difference between the advocation for the overthrow of civil authority which has been made by the honourable member for Lalor and the call for soldiers serving in the armed forces to refuse to obey legal commands made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
We can give the transcript of what the honourable member for Lalor said. 
 I am sorry the honourable member finds it offensive but it  is  in a transcript of the speech which he made here in Canberra in public saying that he hoped that authority had had its day. If that is not calling for the overthrow  of  civil authority, I do not know what  is. 
I regret that I cannot withdraw something which comes out so clearly. For example, I quote: 
And I believe those who are ready to resist authority are those who are behind the new reformation today. 
If this is not calling for the overthrow of authority and action against it, 1 do not know what it is. There is no difference between that and the call for mutiny by the Leader of the Opposition. 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
Standing order 77 states: 
When any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a Member who is addressing the Chair or by a member who is present, the  Speaker  shall intervene. 
Standing order 78 states: 
When the attention of the  Speaker  is drawn to the words used, he shall determine whether or nol they are offensive or disorderly. 
The Prime Minister has used disorderly words about me, saying that I am inciting to mutiny. He has used offensive and disorderly words against the honourable member for Lalor saying that he has incited to violence or the overthrow of authority. There could scarcely be more offensive or disorderly terms used about honourable members who engage in the law making process and who are sworn to uphold it. The Prime Minister has no more licence, I put it to you, than any other honourable member to be offensive or disorderly.  Sir, you  have a very difficult task to perform, not least this morning, but I submit that you should call even the Prime Minister to book this morning. 
I rise on the point of order. If the point of order taken by the Leader of the Opposition were to be pursued to its finality then any member who said anything at all could be called upon to withdraw it if some individual got up and said he found it offensive. It is surely not offensive to quote from speeches made by members opposite and to quote such words as 'I sincerely hope that authority has had its day' and to go on in this Parliament to say that that is a calling for the overthrow of authority. Surely that is a part of proper debate and of a proper bringing out of the facts and there are no offensive words being used of the honourable member concerned by me. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  certain quotations were made, such as '1 certainly hope that authority has had its day' and so on. 
Happily. 
I ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
1 ask that further questions be placed on notice.  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation since my name has been used by the honourable member for Dawson. It is quite true that 1 expressed to the honourable member for Dawson my regret that he should have been suspended. I said that I felt that it was because of a misunderstanding by him of what actually had transpired. I still think that the record of Hansard shows this to be so because I think the unaltered record shows quite clearly that the Minister for the Interior was speaking of a May meeting of the Moratorium and he indicated, I think, that the honourable member for Lalor was at that meeting. The honourable member for Dawson, I believe, thought he was speaking of Friday's meeting but I believe that the transcript shows clearly that it was not. In fact, I understand that the honourable member for Lalor was at the May meeting. So I do regret that the honourable member for Dawson was suspended. I do regret that it was the result of a misunderstanding but I think the misunderstanding, a genuine one, was in the mind of the honourable member for Dawson. 
1 understand that the Canadian Prime Minister through his 
Department of External Affairs has been in touch with our Department, keeping it, in genera], informed of the progress of discussions between the Canadian Government and the Government of Red China. I do not know what particular stage these have reached as yet and, indeed, whatever action is taken would be the responsibility naturally of the Canadian Government and it would not be for me to reflect upon or talk about it. Our own approach to this matter has been well stated, clearly stated, and is in no way altered. 
I understand there is a group of students from Cambodia who have come to this country in order to let the Australian people know of what is happening in Cambodia and of the facts of the invasion of that country by North Vietnam. I have not noticed them appearing on the public media and I am sure, as the honourable member suggests, that if they had come to be critical it is quite likely they would have so appeared. I would hope that opportunities will be taken by (he media to enable these representatives-- these young student representatives - of a country under attack properly to put their point of view to the Australian people. 
I have seen the instructions referred to and I have also seen examples of the thick staffs on which the flags have been put. 
I have seen the instructions referred to- 
I suppose the honourable member is entitled to add what adjectives he likes to his statement. I would like to make it clear that I do not agree with those adjectives at all. I believe it perfectly proper for myself as the leader of the Government or for other Ministers to point out that the only real benefit from wage rises can come if there is an increase in production and those wages can buy more. I believe it perfectly proper to point out and will continue to point out that the inflation which follows wage rises which are not backed up by increased productivity is an inflation which damages members of this community least able to look after themselves. The object of this Government and of the Budget which it has brought in is to contain inflation for the benefit of those who can least look after themselves. Another objective of it was to provide more in the pay packet by taxation remissions which are much more effective in buying power than the actual sum concerned because they are not subject, of course, to taxation at all. I think it proper, responsible and right to point these things out. I shall continue to do so. I think it is irresponsible for the honourable member to say they should not be said. 
 In reply to the last part of the question which I remember better than the first part, because it was rather long - yes, I would assure the House that the "Government does not regard the instructions given to some who engage in Moratorium marches and other demonstrations in effect to carry weapons with them as being something which applies to all those who engage in such demonstrations or whatever it might be. The Government, however - I am not sure that the Opposition agrees with this - does say that some of those engaged in these demonstrations do carry these types of weapons and do carry them under 1 est ruction and are prepared to use them. 
The other part of the question referred to the taking of films of demonstrations. I do not believe that anybody's rights to natural justice or that anybody's rights of any kind are infringed by the fact that a photograph is taken of him and if, in fact, at some later stage there should be a question of fact arise I see no reason why that photograph should not be produced to decide what the actual facts were. 
 Mr Speaker,  the House is discussing a motion to take note of a statement issued by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Both the implications of the content of that statement and the implications of the fact that it was made by him have, I believe, national significance for in that statement he advises young men not to obey the provisions of the law as they at present stand and he advises young men who are soldiers to disobey a military order and to refuse to go to a theatre of war to which their unit may be posted, if they claim to have conscientious reasons for not going to that theatre of war. In this particular case the argument refers to Vietnam but of course it goes far beyond that because if it is proper to say to a young man - a soldier: Disobey a military order to go to Vietnam, if you do not want to go there' then it is equally right to say to a soldier: 'Disobey a military order to go to any theatre that you may say you do not wish to go to.' And therefore,  Mr Speaker,  the implications of this statement, as I see them, are firstly, a direct attack upon the rule of law as it operates in this country now; and secondly, the counselling of a course of action which would make the operations of an army with a content of national servicemen quite impossible in any theatre of war. 
Now it is of no use for the Leader of the Opposition to say that if he had an army he would have no national servicemen in it. The facts of the matter are that as the law stands there is an Army. It is reliant upon national servicemen. That was reinforced and brought about as a result of an election not long ago. And the Leader of the Opposition is advocating a course which would make the operations of that Army quite impossible. Just consider for one moment: You have a battalion trained as a team, and the suggestion made to these soldiers by the Leader of the Opposition is that some of them should say: T would not like to go to Malaysia so I will not go there. I will disobey an order to go there.' Others might say: '1 will not go to Vietnam because I do not like the idea of going to Vietnam, so I will refuse to obey an order to go there.' Whatever theatre of war you may choose to consider this could apply to. The fact that this can be advocated publicly by the Leader of the Opposition - not by somebody outside Parliament, not by somebody seeking to attack the Vietnam war or the rights and wrongs of the Vietnam war, but by the Leader of the Opposition, the man who hopes some day to become Prime Minister - for him to advocate such an action is in fact an implication to which I referred at the beginning of this speech which has national significance. 
For it means that he regards his own position so irresponsibly that he would suggest that should he ever become Prime Minister - should this country ever be afflicted with that disaster - then it would be right for an Opposition or a leader of an Opposition to urge disobedience to any law which he might choose to ask the Parliament to pass. This, coming from a man in that position, has very, very grave implications indeed and,  Mr Speaker,  COL,1. not be more designed, whether on purpose or not, to render the operation of our military forces ineffective in their present role. This of course is the objective of many - those who take part in moratoriums and those who are members of the Communist Party. That is their objective. This advice would fallow out their objective. Whether from the same motives or not does not matter. It would help them to follow out that objective. 
I have said that not only would this statement by the leader of the Opposition render the use of our military forces ineffective but it was in fact an incitement to a breach of the law as it stands. Let us examine that. Let us examine the quality of this advice and let us examine what must be the thought processes behind it. In the first place there is no inescapable obligation upon any young man in Australia to go to fight with the Army in Vietnam. There is no inescapable obligation at all under the law. If a young man has genuine conscientious beliefs then he can go before a court - that is, genuine conscientious objection to bearing arms at all or to taking part in any war. Then there is provision in the law for him to go before the courts and if the courts finds that he does so hold those conscientious beliefs he is excused from all service, so there is no requirement there. But, secondly, if a young man does not have that conscientious objection to war but objects  to some particular theatre of war then there is provision in the law for that young man to join the Citizen Military Forces, in which case he cannot be called up and will not be called up to serve in a theatre to which he objects. 
Now it is quite clear from -the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition that he is talking about the advice he gives to young men before they register. They come along to him - the statement makes it clear -and say: 'What should T do?' Surely the law being what it is the right and proper advice to give to such a young man would be to say: 'If that is how you feel then I can advise you this way. You should join the CMF if you do not have conscientious objections to bearing arms, and should you do that then you will be excused from being called up for service in Vietnam.' That, however, is not apparently the advice that is given. At least it does not appear to be the advice from the statement that he has made in this House. But if the Leader of the Opposition now as an afterthought is inclined to say: 'Oh, but I do give that advice first. This is the first advice I give to a young man', then what he is saying is this: 'I show this young man a legal and proper way for him to obtain the objective that he seeks. If he turns down and will not use the legal and proper way then I advise him to use an illegal way and to break the law.' Now,  Mr Speaker,  there are those who argue that an individual has the right to break a law if he considers it to be a bad law. I do not believe for one moment that that contention can hold any water in a country where parliaments make the law and people elect the parliaments but however that may be when there is a legal Act and there is a legal method of obtaining an objective - when a Leader of an Opposition in his capacity as adviser has pointed out that a legal method of avoiding the service required and is then prepared to go on - because an individual refuses to take a legal course - and advise an illegal course, and advise a young man to join the Army and to refuse to go to Vietnam or to any other place to which he does not want to go, then I believe there can be no more reprehensible or irresponsible thing than for a Leader of an Opposition in such a position to say: 'There is a legal way that you can act but of course if you will not act in that way I advise you to act in an illegal way.' And one wonders whether this does show a contempt for law, whether it does show a desire to help to break the law. One knows that in the end result if it is followed out it would lead to severe punishment to young men which could have been avoided had they been given the proper advice and it will lead, while the law stands as it is, to the impossibility of using the armed troops of Australia in the field. The implications of this, coming from the source from which it comes, are very grave indeed for Australia and I believe that all Australians should ponder deeply the fact that that man who now leads the Opposition is prepared to urge - or rather let me say advise - a course of action which would lead to the inability to use our troops and is prepared to advise an illegal course of action when there exists a legal way of attaining the objective required. 
One shudders to think of what this kind of approach would mean to Australia should it ever suffer the disaster of having an alteration and that individual becoming Prime Minister of Australia. Just imagine,  Mr Speaker,  the way in which this country would move should we accept without protest these kinds of suggestions, this kind of advice, by a Leader of the Opposition that the law should be broken even when it does not need to be broken, and even when the objective can be achieved without it. This is gong to result as I said, whether intentionally or not, in an attack upon our capacity to fight and in a real threat to the rule of law in this country, and it comes from a man who has sworn to uphold the law. I do not believe that the people of this country tor one moment wm accept that kind of leadership and I think it is a great advantage that the kind of leadership really there has been by accident, brought out and shown to the people of this country to be a fact. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is set out in the following table: 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  left Australia on Friday on the inaugural flight of Alitalia to Rome. The Minister is expected to return to Australia on 30th September, and during his absence the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  is Acting Minister for the Army. 
This is quite clearly purely a diversionary attempt to draw public attention away from the statements made in recent days by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which he cannot deny but which he finds embarrassing and therefore which he does not wish to be subject of debate. Let me make it quite clear,  Mr Speaker:  We are not going to be diverted, nor are we going to adopt the practice of calling before this House any public servant whom the Opposition may seek to have called before it to be crossexamined. Let me also make it perfectly clear that most of the matters raised by those 2 who have spoken do not even need any examination. But let me make this clear, too: In spite of what the proposer of this motion said, it is entirely within the charter of the Australian News and Information Bureau to carry out activities, as it did, when the Moratorium was being held, ft is entirely within its charter, which contains these words: That it is part of its duty within Australia to act as a common service agency for the supply of specialised publicity and information services to departments and instrumentalities requiring them. 
Secondly, there is no question and no dispute at all but that I asked the ANIB not directly but through my staff to take an official record of the Moratorium outside Parliament House. 
I am asked: 'For what reasons?' I would ask why there should not be such an official record of such gatherings. 1 believe there ought to be because we have seen over recent months the development of a process where people produce photographic evidence in order to show that they have been unfairly arrested and that brutality has been used against them. Yes, we all know that this is so. Why, only last week we saw the Premier of New South Wales in a television interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission being presented with photographs purporting to show this action on the part of the police. They are a purely partial record and surely there should be a far wider coverage than that. Perhaps the honourable member who moved this motion or the Leader of the Opposition might say: Well, why not just leave it to the police to take photographs?' Many honourable members on the Opposition side would not agree with that because they object even to that. But I would ask: If such photographs were produced by the police what would be the likely response from the Opposition? 
I think I can answer that on the evidence of what the Leader of the Opposition himself has said over the Macquarie Network regarding the police where he smeared all returned servicemen from Vietnam in the police force, not by saying that they were thugs but by saying publicly that some unspecified and anonymous person had said to him that those who had come back from Vietnam were thugs. 
I was endeavouring to leave no doubt but that I had asked the ANIB to conduct this coverage and to indicate the reasons why I felt it quite right and proper that such a coverage be undertaken. Indeed, that is the first point which was raised by the honourable member who moved this motion. In the second point he raised, he made a claim in relation to some doctored photographs and pretended that there are 2 photographs each of which gives a different pictorial story of what in fact was happening. This is simply, factually and visually not true. Both the photographs referred to are here. I ask for the permission of the House to tabic them so that anybody looking at them can see that there is no pictorial difference in the story and there is no question of any faking or doctoring of any photographs that can arise. 
That being so, it is open to any honourable member of this House to use his eyes to see whether there is any truth in this ridiculous accusation. If the Opposition wants to debate the question of whether it is right or not right for the ANIB, although its charter permits it, to take an official record of such gatherings let it debate that. If members of the Opposition want to debate the question of whether there has been any alteration in the 2 photographs before them then let them debate that with the evidence of those photographs. But let them not try a diversionary tactic by calling a public servant before this  House  for the sole purpose, as I believe, of diverting attention from what has been said in recent days. They are diverting attention from the fact that Vietnam veterans in the New South Wales Police Force have been smeared- 
I am asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition why we do not have a debate on these matters. I would be deligted to have a debate on these matters but he has not called for one. He has called for something else. I will let him have a debate on this if he wants it, but we will not suspend standing orders to call public servants before this House. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 I would repeat what I said at the beginning of an abortive attempt by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in his motion and say that this must appear to all hearing it as a desperate attempt to divert attention away from matters which are not trivial - not trivial at all - but matters which bear strongly on the effective use of our own armed forces and on the breaking or keeping of the law by citizens of this country. These things are not trivial, but this motion and these speeches which we have heard attempting to divert attention away from those matters are trivial. I have already indicated to the House that I believe there should be the fullest possible record of such actions as a Moratorium meeting or other meetings of that kind outside this House. I have indicated that T can see no reason why a pictorial record of what goes on at such meetings should not be had. Why is it that the Opposition objects to there being such a record? Why is it that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition assumes as he does in his speech that any record of such a gathering must automatically be detrimental to the Labor Party and aimed at it. I do not see why this should be so. 
I believe there should be the greatest and fullest pictorial coverage possible and I have already indicated, in reply to some of the things that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr  J. F. Cairns) said, that I think it as well to have a pictorial coverage, when it is our responsibility to take it, as it is here, which goes beyond that which is taken by the police. We have records, as I have told the House, of the police being subjected to vilification and attack. There was an occasion when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went into public and did not himself say that returned servicemen from Vietnam in the police Force were thugs but relied on quoting an anonymous and unknown police officer who is alleged to have said it to him. It would have the same result, and since no individuals were mentioned must result in the smearing of all men in the New South Wales Police Force who have returned from Vietnam. It appears from this that evidence put forward by police could well be. and probably would be, attacked in this way. It also appears that the Leader of the Opposition is not content merely to advise young men to break the law - to join the Army and to disobey a legitimate order - but be has gone further than that now by indicating that, if a young man joins the Army, does not have conscientious objections then, does go to Vietnam, but when he is in Vietnam develops some conscientious objections he should go to his commanding officer and say that he does not feel he could carry on there. 
The Leader of the Opposition is not only prepared to offer this advice but is even prepared to attack en masse young men in the police force - he did not say all of them, merely that there are some of them - who have returned to Australia having rendered service to this country in Vietnam. These are reasons why I believe a pictorial coverage of this kind is quite right and proper. The major point claimed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this debate is that faked and doctored photographs have been tabled in this House. Let us examine that suggestion and the suggestion that they were tabled in this House for the specific purpose of showing the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag. These are the charges that have been made. Let us recall how it is that this photograph came to be tabled in this House. It came as a result of this matter of the Moratorium and of Vietcong flags being raised during question time. We had all seen this. I assume all of us had seen it. We could see the crowds outside, we could see the Vietcong flags and the people speaking. This question was raised in this House and the Leader of the Opposition, in the course of the discussion on that, had this to say: 
I have no knowledge of any Vietcong flags being anywhere near me when I spoke to 2,000 Australian National University students in front of Parliament House last Friday morning. 
We heard later a speech by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  in which he told this House that he had been in company with the Leader of the Opposition while these flags were there and had pointed them out to him. The honourable member for La Trobe was kind enough to say that the Leader of the Opposition may not have seen them, but he must have known they were there unless he is prepared to disbelieve entirely the honourable member for La Trobe. Then the Leader of the Opposition went on to say: 
There were no Vietcong flags anywhere in my vicinity or in my sight. 
Let us forget about him talking under them. He said: 
There were no Vietcong flags anywhere in my vicinity or in my sight. There were none last 
May, and certainly last Friday there were none in my sight as J spoke or anywhere in my vicinity as I approached the rostrum. 
These were the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. Following those statements the Leader of the Opposition went to the lengths of tabling a photograph purporting to support his statements; purporting to show that there were in fact no Vietcong flags in his vicinity or in his sight and purporting to substantiate what he had put to this Parliament. At that stage the honourable member for La Trobe tabled another photograph showing that if such Vietcong flags were not in the sight of the Leader of the Opposition he must indeed be blind or have been deliberately looking the other way. The true objection is not to the tabling of this photograph; the true objection is to the fact that the tabling of his photograph disproved the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition on this matter just a short time before. 
Then we are told that this is supposed in some way to be a changed, a faked photograph. I have presented to this House the photographs in question and it is claimed that one of them has been changed in such a way as to alter the pictorial story it gives. It has not. Those who listened on the air to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  might gather, because they did not have this visual evidence, that there is some such difference. Indeed, this attempt to convey this impression was made by the honourable member for Lalor by holding up in the air a completely different photograph, not one of the photographs we are talking about at all - nothing to do with the case. But those who see the photographs when they are published for the nation to see, will, I believe, come to the conclusion that there is absolutely no difference in the pictorial stories told by those photographs. The roads are still there, the vehicle is still there, the distance is still there, the Leader of the Opposition is still there and the Vietcong flag is still there, all in the same juxtaposition. I believe that this attempt to pretend that there has been some alteration of significance in this photograph is, by the evidence of the eyes of all to whom I have produced it, shown to be quite false. It has been stated in this matter, and stated publicly by the Leader of the Opposition in support of this puerile attempt to pretend there has been some change in a photograph, that I had doctored a photograph - that I produced a doctored photograph. He said this publicly. That is completely and utterly untrue. 
Do you deny you said I produced and I doctored it? I have your transcript. Will you deny that you said that? 
These were the statements that were made by the Leader of the Opposition, as the transcript will show. The fact of the matter is that I neither saw nor knew of the existence of this photograph until after it had been tabled in this House by the honourable member for La Trobe. 
 I am not trying to put the blame on anybody. There is no blame involved in this whatever, no blame at all and the honourable member is wrong to assume there is. All I am saying is that this and the other photographs concerned were not called for by me at any time because there were no incidents and there was no need for a coverage such as I had wanted to have. I was not interested in photographs of the Leader of the Opposition and 1 did not call for them. But when he rose in this House and in front of this House denied that any such flags were in his vicinity - denied that he could see them or that they were in front of him or anywhere around him - not I, but somebody else believed there ought to be pictorial evidence to set against the verbal evidence he had given. Who can blame them for that except those whose verbal evidence is overthrown by the pictorial evidence brought into this House. 
I believe, as I said at the outset, that the whole object of this motion is to attempt to divert attention away from matters which are of real significance; the significance of a Leader of the Opposition in bis responsible position claiming that Vietnam veterans who return and serve in the police force are - some of them - thugs, without specifying who they are. The motion is an attempt to divert attention from advice given by the Leader of the Opposition to young men to break the law - to join the Army and to refuse to obey a legal order, thus placing themselves in serious danger of punishment - rather than giving them the proper advice that they should, if they have conscientious objection to going to Vietnam, join the CMF and so be excused. T believe there is an attempt to divert attention from the further step taken by the Leader of the Opposition of saying that even when a man gets to Vietnam, if he does not like it and then develops some conscientious objection he should go to his commanding officer and say he cannot carry on there in Vietnam. 
These are matters of significance and these are the matters which this smokescreen is designed to obscure. Also it is designed to obscure the fact that on 24t.h September in this House the Leader of the Opposition made statements that Vietcong flags were not in his vicinity - were not anywhere near him when he was speaking - and those statements have been shown to be untrue. I do not think that is very significant and important in itself as far as the Vietcong flag is concerned, but I think it is significant and important that when something is produced to rebut that statement an attack is made because that statement has been rebutted. I have only one more thing to say. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about this matter not only concerning last Friday but concerning the May demonstration. As I said, he had this to say: 
There were no Vietcong flags anywhere in my vicinity or in ray sight. There were none last May and certainly last Friday there were none. . . . 

 Mr Speaker, I have here a photograph ; yes, another photograph ; which I would like the permission of the House to table. When you look at the back of it you will see that it was taken by the 'Canberra Times' and it is copyright. Perhaps I might be charged with subverting the 'Canberra Times' by producing this photograph. It shows that at least there were Vietcong banners in the vicinity of the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the honourable member for Lalor. They need to be there to disprove the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition concerning last May's Moratorium. It is a little strange that the honourable member for Lalor should be so upset at the thought of there being a record of the Leader of the Opposition appearing near Vietcong flags. After all, he was the honourable member who suggested that members of the Vietcong and North Vietnam should come here for the Moratorium. Apparently he believes that the Leader of the Opposition has a different approach - I do not know. All I know is this: There were photographs taken for a full official coverage of the Moratorium. 1 believe this was right and proper. When noth'ing happened I did not calf for or see or know of the existance of the photographs that had been taken in any way at all. 
I have explained it about three times. In fact, the photograph in question, which is not a photograph altered in any way to distort the pictorial story which it gives, was a photograph presented before I had seen it but, I believe, properly presented to give the pictorial rebuttal to the verbal statements of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Full details of, and the background to, the salary increases granted to certain senior officials of the Commonwealth Railways in December 1969, were given to the honourable member by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in reply to his Questions Nos 1091 (Hansard 3rd and 4th June 1970) and 1229 (Hansard 12th June 1970). 
The Public Service Arbitrator was a member of a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which made a searching inquiry concerning salary claims for professional engineers in the Commonwealth Service and announced its majority decision on 3rd December 1969. The Full Bench said that the rates which it had determined were based on present day work values and that its decision concerned professional engineers alone. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that there was no announcement by the Board in December 1969 of salary increases for professional engineers and that the honourable member presumably has in mind the Board's announcement in September 1969 of new pay rates which it considered to be appropriate for engineers. The necessary amendment of the Public Service Regulations was approved by the Governor-General on 17th October 1969, from which date the new salaries became effective. In December 1969, a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, after a searching inquiry, confirmed the rates introduced by the Board as appropriate based on present day work values. 
As regards the Commonwealth Railways,I refer the honourable member to my answer to the preceding Question (No. 1530). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The International Convention relating to International Exhibitions has provisions under which countries not signatories to the Convention may organise and participate in international exhibitions. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (5) No - but it is understood that the Commissioner-General for Expo '70 will be referring to this subject in his report at the conclusion of Expo '70. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) The Departments concerned have provided the following information which follows the definition used in answer to the honourable member's Question No. 62 of 1 0th March 1968 (Hansard 607 of 27lh August 1968). 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council report on needs of State Education Services has established the most urgent shortcomings in education. 
That these needs can be summarised as severe teacher shortage, oversized classes, lack of classroom accommodation, poor teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five (5) years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finances the State school system will disintegrate. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to insure that emergency finance from the Comonweahh will be given to the States for their public education services. 
Petition received. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,I  received approximately 2 hours ago a copy of  Sir Henry  Bolte's Budget Speech and I have noted the statement in that speech that it is not the intention of the Victorian Government to seek an appropriation from the Victoria Parliament for the purpose of paying payroll tax to the Commonwealth.  Sir Henry  Bolte indicated that exclusion of provision for the payment of payroll tax to the Commonwealth would mean a reduction of about $9m in the payments side of the Victorian Consolidated Fund for 1970-71 and I interpolate, it would also of course, mean a reduction of $9m in the amount of receipts into the Commonwealth revenue. Payroll tax has been imposed by the Commonwealth continuously since 1941. The relevant provision of the Commonwealth law concerning payment of this tax by the States has since that time - 1941 - remained unchanged. The relevant Commonwealth Act - the Payroll Tax Assessment Act 1941-1969- provides that an 'employer' for payroll tax purposes includes the Crown in the right of a State. 
The payment of financial assistance grants by the Commonwealth to the States has, since introduction of the payroll tax in 1941, allowed for the payment of payroll tax by the States, and all the States have in fact paid payroll tax since 1941 in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Act. If they had not paid payroll tax then their reimbursement grants would have been less. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference, when Commonwealth-State financial relations for the period of 5 years commencing with 1970-71 were discussed, I made plain to the Premiers that the Commonwealth proposals were on the basis that there were no significant changes in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States during the 5-year period. I indicated in particular that under the proposed arrangement we would expect that the States and their authorities would continue to pay payroll tax. The actual words used at that Conference were: 
If we are to provide such a substantial increase in revenue assistance and in resources available to the States it should be on the basis that there are no significant changes in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States during the period of the agreement. In particular, we would expect that the States and their authorities will continue to pay payroll tax and that the distribution of tax resources between the Commonwealth and the States will remain unchanged. 
Although the Premier of Victoria made plain that he did not regard his Government as having agreed to the financial arrangements that resulted from the Conference, there was no indication by him or any of the other Premiers that they proposed not to continue to pay payroll tax. On the other hand, as I have indicated, there was a clear and unequivocal intimation from the Commonwealth that the continuance of the payment of payroll tax was a key part of the offers made by the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth Budget for 1970-71 was accordingly formulated on the basis that payroll tax would continue to be paid by the States to the Commonwealth. This was allowed for in the Budget estimate of payroll tax collections and also in the provision for the payment of Commonwealth grants to the States. If Victoria or any other State or States were not to pay payroll tax there would thus be a direct and significant effect on the Commonwealth budget. The Government is therefore unable to accept the position taken by the Victorian Government as stated in  Sir Henry  Bolte's Budget Speech. My Government will, therefore, consider what course of action it should take in relation to  Sir Henry  Bolte's statement in order to see that the Commonwealth budget is not impaired. I present the following paper: 
Payment of payroll tax - Ministerial Statement, 30 September 1970- and I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
I think it was the honourable member for Farrer himself who drew to my attention the resolution passed by this conference, at which he was in attendance as an observer, and consequently it has come to the notice of the Government that this is the feeling of governments in that area who, unlike some of our opponents, do believe in the domino theory, particularly since they see it coming into force in such areas as Cambodia and Laos. I would believe - and I believe any student of history in that area would believe - that a complete withdrawal of assistance to South Vietnam and the overrunning of that country by the forces of North Vietnam would lead to the slaughter of millions and a holocaust even greater than was caused in North Vietnam when the French forces withdrew - a holocaust freely admitted by the Government of North Vietnam but far too late to save the victims who had been killed in those massacres. 
I think the first part of the question perhaps could be amplified by the Minister for External Affairs. My recollection of the points to which the honourable member is referring is that there were proposals which boil down to being proposals that the Vietcong would cease attacking troops in the area provided it was agreed that all those troops would be withdrawn by a particular date, which in fact is no different from the proposals they have been making all along, namely that the only basis on which they would talk was unilateral withdrawal of troops, not applying to their own forces. In regard to the second part of the question, I think this Government has made it clear that it would like to have a political solution provided that political solution ensured the free operation of South Vietnam without those  operations being attacked by guerillas inside or invaded by North Vietnamese forces from outside, and that is our objective. 
No such applications have been made to me. Indeed I think  if an application were to be made for this purpose it would need to be made to you,  Mr Speaker,  since you are in charge of what should be done in this House. As for the rest of the question asked by the honourable member, I suppose each individual could well make up his mind. We could well think of people well cast in roles in comedy or drama, each in our own way. The honourable member for Hindmarsh perhaps could be Lady Macbeth, and others could fill in. 
We have received a letter from the Premier of Victoria suggesting that the Victorian railways should be taken over by the Commonwealth Government. From my reading of the letter and my recollection of the letter I think he was willing to make a free gift of the railways. The implications of accepting such a free gift will take some time to consider and I would need to do so before I could answer the last part of the honourable member's question. 
I have seen the 2 photographs to which the honourable member refers. Indeed I have seen a number of photographs but I know the two to which he is referring. 
No. I have seen them and I understand they appeared in the way they did without the knowledge of those who had their photographs so taken. However, I am sure that both the Ministers concerned, who have spoken to me on this, would admit that it was unfortunate that the photographs should have been so used and that they should have been in a position in which they could have been so used. But having said that, they did not then cry 'fake' or 'unfair'. 
I have been informed by the Public Service Board that the answer to parts (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Board wrote on 10th June 1970 to the three staff associations indicating that it had completed its examination of the material submitted by the associations in support of renewed pay claims for engineers as well as a wide range of material collected by the Board. The staff associations were invited to resume discussions on 18th June 1970 on the basis that in the first place, there would be detailed discussions between representatives of the associations and officers of the Board to be followed, after the Board's officers had had sufficient time to report to the Board, by a meeting with the Board '. . . with the object of taking the matter to finality'. 
On 18th June 1970 there were discussions between representatives of the three staff associations and officers of the Public Service Board. 
After hearing the report of its officers the Board took its decision on the claims, concluding that a case had not been established for further pay increases for engineers in the Commonwealth Service at that time. The Board then met with the representatives of the associations, and informed them of its decision in terms of the statement which was circulated. In brief, the associations were advised that in general the pay rates for engineers in the Service remained competitive, but that the Board would undertake a further survey of rates paid by other employers (particularly in the private sector) towards the end of this year. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my answer to a question without notice by the honourable member for Hughes on 15th April 1970 (Hansard, page 1119). 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A review was carried out recently of the  work  and qualifications of pharmacists and  a  new classification structure was introduced for the category- For each work level in the new pharmacist structure, salary scales were introduced which are identical with those applying to other staff categories requiring science qualifications and which are covered by Public Service Arbitrator's Determination No. 76 of 1963, e.g.. Biochemist, Biologist, Geologist, Metallurgist, Physicist. By that Determination, the Arbitrator provides separate commencing rates for three-year graduates and four or five-year graduates above the rate applicable to diplomates of Colleges of Advanced Education. The new salaries and conditions for pharmacists were agreed with the staff associations concerned (Professional Officers' Association, Hospital Employees' Federation and Repatriation Department Medical Technologists' Association) on a without prejudice basis and were incorporated in consent determinations issued by the Public Service Arbitrator. 
In the light of the information contained in answer to parts (1) and (3) of this question, the inquiries necessary to compile an answer to this part have not been undertaken. 
For some time, the Public Service Board has been closely studying developments in academic courses within the Colleges of Advanced Education with a view to the adoption of appropriate arrangements, not only in relation to salary determinations, but also in matters concerning the recruitment and selection of graduates from the Colleges. 
The Board has now decided that in those cases where awards of Colleges of Advanced Education are, after due process, recognised as being of comparable length and standard to University degrees, they should be accorded equality of treatment with University degrees for salary purposes. Pending establishment of effective national accreditation procedures, the Board is consulting with the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education as to the processes which might be adopted to evaluate awards issued by Colleges of Advanced Education. 
In the case of pharmacy courses, the Board has sought an evaluation from the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education of the standard of courses conducted in the various States. On receipt of that evaluation, the Board will, as appropriate, take action to give effect to its decision referred to above. 
by leave - Honourable members will be aware that to fulfil the requirements of the Constitution the next Senate election must be held before 30th June 1971. Accordingly the Government has decided to invite His Excellency the GovernorGeneral to communicate with the State Governors proposing that the next Senate election be held on Saturday, 21st November 1970. When replies have been received from the States I shall inform the House of the full timetable proposed for the election. 
by leave - As a preface to my statement on receipts duty legislation I point out to. the House that I know of no dispute with any State Premier other than the Premier of Victoria on this question of payroll tax. Honourable members will recall that last June legislation was introduced to impose a continuing Commonwealth receipts duty on business receipts. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  explained that this was being done at the request of the States, and for their benefit, the purpose being to ensure that the States did not lose revenue as a consequence of the High Court decision which invalidated their own receipts duty legislation as it applied to certain types of receipt. The Treasurer also explained that the Commonwealth legislation would - again at the request of the States - apply retrospectively to 1.8th November 1969, the date on which the Commonwealth's agreement "to introduce legislation for the benefit of the States was foreshadowed. Provision was made, however, for exemption from duly under the Commonwealth legislation, in respect of the period 18th November 1969 to a date to be proclaimed as the end of a transitional period if duty, whether or nol validly imposed, was paid under State legislation. 
The proposed legislation was approved by this House but failed to secure the approval of the Senate. Immediately after the resumption of the House following next week's recess, the legislation will be reintroduced in the House with inclusion of provisions under which the Commonwealth legislation will cease to apply to amounts received after 30th September 1.970. The overall effect of the new Commonwealth legislation will be that business receipts during the period from 18th 
November 1969 to 30th September 1970 will be liable to duty under it at the rate of 0.1 per cent, but that this liability will not arise if the provisions of State laws in this period - whether valid or invalidare complied with. One effect of this will be that, to the extent that receipts are specifically exempted or simply not dutiable under State law, they will not be dutiable under the Commonwealth law. Another effect will be that receipts which Queensland legislation has purported to make dutiable during this period will remain liable to duty at the lower rate of 0.02 per cent - provided of course, Queensland duty is in fact paid on the receipts or has already been paid. 
I add that, knowing of the Government's stated intention to proceed with Commonwealth legislation to impose, at the States' request, a duty on business receipts, many businesses have continued to pay duty to the States even though the payment of an excise may have been involved. In 1969-70 the States actually collected 85 per cent or more of the total amount they had estimated they would receive. The essential purposes of the new Commonwealth legislation will be to validate the collections already received by the States and, in the case of businesses that have refrained from paying receipts duty in respect of the period to be covered by the Commonwealth law, to require them to make such payments. 
The Government appreciates that the 1970-71 budgets of the States have been framed on the assumption that the Commonwealth receipts duty legislation would have continuing operation and that the States would therefore receive the full benefit of the receipts duty revenue that would have been payable to them in 1970-71 if the Commonwealth legislation had continuing operation. The Government also appreciates that limiting the operation of the Commonwealth legislation to receipts up to 30th September 1970 will have a significant effect on State revenues for 1970-71 and that something will need to be done to protect the budgetary situation of the States. We propose that additional Commonwealth grants will be payable to the States in 1970-71 so as to make good the reasonable losses of State revenue resulting from the termination of the Commonwealth receipts duty legislation on 30th September 1970. As in the case of other arrangements for the payment of Commonwealth assistance grants to the States in 1970-71, our willingness to do this is on the basis that the arrangements resulting from the June 1970 Premiers Conference will apply in their entirety. 
For the purpose of ascertaining such reasonable losses I am in touch with the Premiers with a view to arranging consultations between the Commonwealth and State governments as quickly as possible. We have in mind that at such consultations there will be discussed the question of the future of receipts duty in the non-excise area under State legislation against the background that the Commonwealth legislation will cease to apply to amounts received after 30th September 1970. 
I believe that the honourable member is referring to an announcement made by the Governor of the Reserve Bank that a further $63m would be made available to the major trading banks for farm development funds, as to $32m I think, and for term funds, as to $31m. The honourable member will also remember that this Government took action in the past with the Reserve Bank and the trading banks to see that when interest on these funds was raised for the community generally in the past, this did not occur in the case of primary producers. 
This is a matter which is, as I understand it, under the review of the Public Service Board at the present moment. I do know that a number of instrumentalities and a number of private employers make up the pay of those who are called up foc national service. I recently had it drawn to my attention that on one occasion an employee of the Commonwealth felt that his pay was not being made up. I have not sufficient facts to say definitely that it was not; but he had a case to say that it was not, and I have asked for that to be examined. 
This clearly is a question going very deeply into matters of policy and Commonwealth-State relations and I think, as such, is not a question that lends itself to answering at question time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the latest period for which statistics of premiums received and claims paid by insurance companies for comprehensive motor vehicle and compulsory third party insurance is 1968-69. The details, as published in the bulletin, Australian Fire, Marine and General Insurance Statistics 1968-69, are set out in the following table: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Generally, the statistics sought are not available. The Commonwealth Development Bank does not maintain statistical records that would enable it to provide information in the form requested. However, the Bank classifies loan approvals according to repayment term, and has provided the following information in respect of approvals from the commencement of ils operations on 14th January, 1960 until 30th June, 1969: 
In the case of the trading banks, most lending is by way of overdraft which is normally repayable on demand but in fact may extend over a number of years; balances of overdrafts normally fluctuate considerably between the dates of initial approval and final repayment. Trading banks also provide Term Loans (currently 11 per cent of total loans outstanding) with maturities of 3-8 years, or a little longer, and Farm Development Loans (2 per cent) with maturities of up to IS years, or longer in special cases. The Australian Resources Development Bank's loans are generally for a term of 5-10 years from final drawdown of loans. Refinancings of the Australian Banks' Export ReFinance Corporation can be for terms of up to 10 years. 
It is not the practice of the Reserve Bank to provide detailed information of this kind. The Bank has advised, however, that the great bulk of loans made by it are repayable within one year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The duties, powers and conditions of appointment of members of the Public Service Board are set out in the Public Service Act 1922-1968. 
A presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission may hold office until death only if he is a Judge of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. 
It is customary for Parliament to provide that Commonwealth statutory officers be appointed for fixed terms, for example, the Public Service Arbitrator, the Commissioner and Second Commissioners of Taxation and the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. This has been the practice for many years. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in the answer given on 16 April 1970 to question No. 325 asked, by the honourable member, there are no official statistics showing productivity (i.e. 'production at constant prices) per unit of work force in manufacturing industries.  As  indicated in that answer it is possible to derive some estimates of this type using the Commonwealth Statistician's annual indexes of factory production and work force particulars from the annual factory censuses on which the indexes are based. 
I am advised by the Statistician that he intends to examine the desirability of compiling and publishing such measures along conventional lines despite their significant conceptual limitations. It will be necessary to give attention to technical problems including some that arise from the changes and developments associated with the introduction (as from 1968-69) of the integrated censuses. The Statistician does not expect lo complete the study of these technical problems until after the forthcoming re-basing of his factory production indexes as at 1968-69. This work is expected to be completed during the second half of 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following table: 
by leave - When I informed the House on 1st October that the Government proposed that the next Senate election should be held on Saturday, 21st November 1970, I undertook to give full details of the timetable when replies had been received from the States. 1 am now able to say that all States are in agreement with the timetable, which is as follows: Issue of writs, 16th October 1970; close of nominations, 29th October 1970; polling day, 21st November 1970; date for return of writs, on or before 7th January 1971. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  left Australia on 7th October to represent Australia in Fiji at the independence celebrations.  Mr Anthony  is expected to return to Australia on 15th October, and during his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  is Acting Minister for Primary Industry. 
I think I should say firstly that contrary to Press reports, the Government never either made or announced any decision to prevent the entry into Australia of  Mr Paisley.  We did, however, when we heard that he had allegedly been invited to this country, let Australia House know that should an application be made by him to come here he should be told that the Government of Australia would regard his visit at the time of the visit of the Pope as being unwelcome to the Government of Australia. When 1 say that I believe, bearing that timing in mind, we spoke not just for the Government but for the vast majority of the people of Australia and, I should think, most of the people in this House. 
I have no objection to Bernadette Devlin coming out either, but 1 would think that that too might be considered unwelcome if she was invited at the time of the visit of the Archbishop of Canterbury. It is the same kind of approach. We took this step not because we have any objection to  Mr Paisley  coming to Australia and advancing his religious views, however reprehensive they may be - I think they are; stirring up religious strife in this country is something we do not want - but because his visit was clearly timed to coincide with a visit of a Head of State and leader of a significant church. That being so, it was I think designed and probably is designed to endeavour to stir up religious bigotry and hatred in this country, which we can surely do without. That is all I have to say on that matter. The question of whether after that indication of the Government's view  Mr Paisley  still intends to come here must be regarded in the light that he is a member of 2 parliaments, one the British Parliament and the other the Stormont - the Parliament of Northern Ireland - and also I think in the full confidence that even if he does arrive the vast majority of Australians would have nothing to do with the kind of demonstration he may seek to put on. That is the view and the approach of the Government on this matter. 
 What we have been listening to is not a speech at all based on the motion which is before the House. The motion before the House gives clear indication that it is the view of the Opposition that in the case of any war men who have no conscientious objection to war as such or to bearing arms should be allowed to say: Although I have no conscientious objection to war I have some conscientious objection to going to some particular theatre of war or to fighting in some particular place.' That is the view of the Opposition. That is a view of which I hope the Australian people will take note because if it was carried into practice it would mean that in no theatre of war, in no war-like operations, could our Army, Navy or Air Force be assured of being able to undertake successful operations because those engaged in it would all have the right to say, 'I, Smith, do not want to go to Vietnam' or 'I, Brown, do not want to go to Malaysia. I have a conscientious objection to that.' 
Yes, it is. If it is accepted that it is right that a man should have a conscientious objection to one theatre then it must be accepted that he is allowed to have it about all theatres, and this is what- 
Because this is what the motion says. That is what it says. It is not at all related to Vietnam. What we have been listening to is not a speech on that, because 1 do not believe the Leader of the Opposition feels he could justify it, although his Party puts it forward as his view. What we have been listening to is an attempt to excuse the inexcusable and to justify the unjustifiable - that being a statement by the Leader of the Labor Party to the young men of this country that he would advise them to join the Army and to disobey the law. What has been sought to do here is to advance some excuses for that and what tenuous and invalid excuses they are. First of all, there is an attempt to pretend that there is no other way in which a young man who may be called up and who has objections to going to Vietnam or to any other theatre could avoid that possibility, and an attempt to pretend that if that young man joins the CMF then he is not thereby excused from that kind of service - an old legal attempt to pretend that there is something in this. Everybody in this House, including the Leader of the Opposition who made these tenuous excuses, knows that there has not been a single instance since the Vienam war has been in operation when someone who has joined the CMF for service there has been called up as a conscript or has been sent out of this country. That has been made known to the Australian people. That has been accepted by the Australian people and that, in all common sense, is an alternative, and a proper alternative, to get the young man for whom the Leader of the Opposition says he is so concerned out of the obligation to carry out his service. 
In advancing these unbuttressed excuses the Leader of the Opposition started by misrepresenting other Ministers who had spoken. He said that these people had spoken on behalf of the Vietnam commitment. These speakers were speaking on behalf of the proposition that it was completely destructive to admit into the operation of the military forces in this country the concept that any individual in them could, at a particular time, say: '1 do not want to go to this place, that place or the other place. 1 have conscientious objections to doing so'. This cannot be confined to one theatre. It must be regarded as something that the Opposition would wish to see brought in for the first time in our history into our forces. So far as I know it has never been brought into the operations of the forces of any other country. 
Even when the Labor Party was in government, in the war against Fascism it introduced conscription. It introduced an area into which it would send conscripted forces - a confined area, but an area. There was no suggestion then that there be provision for somebody to say: 'I do not think I should go to Bougainville; I have conscientious objections about that' or 'I do not think T should go to Borneo; I have conscientious objections about that'. Why, I wonder, has this newfound desire to allow the individual to choose the theatre of war to which he would go suddenly been imported? 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I wonder why this has suddenly been imported into the concept of military service by a Party which did not ever have it before. Following on these cobwebby arguments that were put, what next was put to us?  Mr Nixon  has been able to withdraw 200,000 troops. Well, so he has. But why? Because he retained troops in that country, at a time when the Leader of the Opposition and all members of the Opposition were screaming that we and they should get out, until a situation was reached where that country was strong enough to be able to defend its self-determination and to allow the withdrawal of those troops at the same time. What sort of a position would it have been if that which was urged by the Labor Party at the time had been carried out and all foreign troops had been withdrawn then? We would not have now been in a situation where South Vietnam would be able to come within reach of being able to have self-determination and where the amount of support given to it would be able to be reduced. Rather would we have that country already overrun by the North Vietnamese and a blood bath similar to that which occurred in North Vietnam  On  the consciences of those who urged this step had that step been taken at that time. 
There is no alteration whatsoever in the approach of the Australian Government to this matter. If the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition wish to go before the Australian people now and say: 'This is our view and if we ever become the Government we will put that view into operation, that anybody called up into any branch of the armed Services can choose the area in which he will fight', let them say so, because we will not accept that, and if it were to be accepted it would be greatly to the detriment and harm of the people of Australia. This whole matter, this new initiative, this new desire is part of a pattern which stretches back well into the past, though not so far back into the past as the Leader of the Opposition might wish us to think, because the operation of Australian troops in Vietnam was not always a matter of conscience with the Leader of the Opposition. Indeed, in the cause of the 1966 elections when he disagreed publicly with his then Leader, he made a statement to Australia that the Labor Party would leave our regular troops in Vietnam if, after consultation with the Vietnamese and the Americans, it felt they should stay there. No matter of conscience there, at that stage. It seems to have developed later during the time when the military situation of North Vietnam and the Vietcong got less and less effective. 
Let us consider the whole sequence of events: The demand for withdrawal, without conditions, back in 1967; then the claim that the United States as well as ourselves were immoral in being in Vietnam; then the advice to young men to join the armed forces if they had to but to refuse to obey an order when they were in that situation; and now a demand, because a great new peace initiative has been made by  President  Nixon, but not accepted, that because that initiative has been made we should at once withdraw all our troops before there has been any acceptance of negotiations and certainly before those negotiations have been brought to a conclusion which can give to the people of South Vietnam that self-determination for which we have been fighting since the beginning of the war and which, in statement after statement since 1967. has been made clear on behalf of various Prime Ministers of this Government. What sort of situation is it that the Opposition is suggesting now? Another help to the North Vietnamese. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available information pertinent to the honourable member's question is set out below. To avoid double counting and inconsistency the figures are based, as far as possible, on information published in, or used in the preparation of, the Supplement to the Treasury Information Bulletin, "National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditure, August 1970'. Where the answer has been supplemented from an additional source, the source is noted. Some of the information requested by the honourable member - such as the lending and investment activities of the Commonwealth Banks - is either not collected or is not available in the detail necessary to permit a satisfactory answer to certain parts of the question. 
Gross fixed capital expenditure on new assets by the Commonwealth and its authorities, including the Commonwealth banks, amounted to $653m in 1969-70. 
(i) Grants to State, local or semigovernment authorities for capital purposes by the Commonwealth Government in 1969-70 amounted to $3 11m. Net advances by the Commonwealth to these authorities in 1969-70 totalled $667m. 
Commonwealth Government grants to autonomous health, education and welfare organisations in Australia for capital purposes totalled $14m in 1969-70. Total overseas grants and contributions by the Commonwealth Government are estimated at $180m in 1969-70 but no breakdown of this figure into grants and contributions for current and capital purposes is available from the Supplement to the Treasury Information Bulletin. Details of external economic aid for 1969-70, which is a slightly different concept, are given in Statement No. 8 attached to the Budget Speech. 
Commonwealth Government grants and advances to private industry in 1969-70 for capital purposes amounted to $45m. Of this total, $40m was in respect of grants and advances for housing - which, for national accounting purposes, are treated as advances to private industry. 
Commonwealth subsidy payments, as defined for national accounting purposes, amounted to $184m in 1969-70. Details of these payments are given in Table No. 5 of 'Commonwealth Finance, 1969-70, Bulletin No. 8'. Further details of Commonwealth payments to industry are given in Statement No. 9 attached to the Budget Speech. 
Australia receives negligible amounts in the form of grants from other countries for capital expenditure. Apart from drawings on credit arrangements for defence purchases in the United States of America, loan proceeds from other countries through the issue of Commonwealth securities are available for capital purposes or for loan redemptions and repayments. In 1969-70, excluding amounts available from credit  arrangements for defence purposes, redemptions and repayments of official borrowings overseas exceeded overseas loan proceeds by S128m, compared with net proceeds of P8m in 1968-69: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Local Government and Shires Associa tion of New South Wales did write to me on 8th July as indicated by the honourable member. However, the Association's request was based on an understanding that I had said that Treasury officials would be requested to conduct an exhaustive examination into sources of finance for the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
This is an incorrect understanding of the position. In fact, having recently completed a comprehensive review of Commonwealth-State financial relations, it is not the intention of the Government to undertake a further examination in the near future. While I stated at the June 1.970 Premiers' Conference that the Commonwealth would be prepared to have Commonwealth Treasury officials examine with State Treasury officials alternative possibilities for new growth taxes for the States, any exercise along these lines would be restricted to the question of possible new State taxes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. The Associations have been informed in terms of part (1) above. 
See answer to part (3). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The Loan Council has approved the following special allocations for individual semi-government and local government authorities, other than the Brisbane City Council, in the last 10 years: 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
am advised by the Public Service Board that as at . 1st January 1970 there were of the order of 26,000 females employed within the Commonwealth Service in categories eligible to be covered by the equal pay phasing provisions. The equal pay decision results in the adult female salaries of these staff being increased by $428 per annum between the period 1st October 1969 and 1st January 1972. Assuming that from 1st January 1972 the figure of 26,000 females employed in equal pay categories is a representative figure, and that all of these females are in receipt of adult rates of pay, the maximum annual cost of the equal pay decision in a full year would be in the vicinity of $11m. The actual annual cost in any year would depend upon the number of females employed in equal pay categories, and the proportion of these who are in receipt of junior rates (the differential between male and female junior rates is less than $428 per annum). 
The only Commonwealth instrumentality which falls within my ministerial responsibility and whose staff is not covered by the Public Service Board's advice is the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. If the same assumptions as above are followed, the maximum annual cost of the equal pay decision in a full year in respect of the Institute would be $856. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Two. (2)The drought relief measures for which Commonwealth assistance was sought included carry-on and restocking loans, freight rebates on the transport of stock and drought fodder and the provision of emergency water supplies. These are measures which are normally eligible for reimbursement when the Commonwealth agrees to assist a State. Assistance was also requested for the cost of drilling for water on farm properties. 
None. 
Every State has sought Commonwealth assistance for drought relief purposes at some time in the past 5 years. 
The main purposes for which assistance has been sought fall under thefollowing headings: 
loans for carry-on and restocking purposes where credit is not available through normal commercial channels; 
rebates of freight onthe transport of fodder and water to drought affected areas, the transport of starving stock out of drought areas, and the transport of slock to areas recovered from drought; 
grants to local councils and other authorities to provide relief work for those unemployed in rural areas as a result of drought; and 
other miscellaneous items associated with drought, including cloud seeding and expenditure on emergency water supplies. 
In addition, the Queensland Government requested Commonwealth assistance in financing grants to help drought affected farmers meet crown rentals and local authority rates. In the light of the extended period of drought experienced in many areas of the State the Commonwealth agreed to reimburse the State for grants to meet half the rates payable in 1970 by primary producers in drought areas who are demonstrably in need of such assistance. 
Requests have also been made for Commonwealth assistance in subsidising the price of fodder for drought affected stock. While these requests have been refused, the Commonwealth has arranged from time to time, through the Wheat Board, for feed wheat to be sold to drought affected farmers on 12 months credit at a concessional rate of interest. 
Payments to each State for the various categories of drought relief measures in the past5 years are given in Table 24 of the White Paper Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1970-71'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question' is as follows: 
Yes.  . (2) I have informed the Premier of Western Australia that the Commonwealth agrees in principle that there is a case for re-quipment of the State Shipping Service. On the question of Commonwealth finance for the re-equipment programme I have advised the Premier that, if satisfactory financial arrangements for the purchase  overseas of the replacement vessels are not available or, if the tender prices are such that the vessels could not be imported under the Government's ship building policy, the Commonwealth would then be prepared to consider providing financial assistance in the light of circumstances at that time. The Premier has informed me that  he agrees that his Government should explore the possibility of obtaining satisfactory financial terms abroad, and that he has agreed to the Western Australian Coastal Shipping Commission proceeding to the design and tender stage on this basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer to Question No. 1754 on 19th September 1969 I said that the timing, nature and extent of the Commonwealth's participation in the reappraisal of the Burdekin River Scheme were to be worked out by appropriate Commonwealth and State officials. On 20th August 1969, the Secretary, Department of National Development asked the Queensland Co-ordinator-General of Public Works if he would arrange for an inventory to be provided of the information held by Queensland authorities on the natural resources, agricultural and engineering investigation findings and development programmes relative to the Burdekin. In response, material was provided by the CoordinatorGeneral on 2nd and 9th March 1970. In a letter dated 5th June 1970 from the Secretary of the Department of National Development and a reply dated 10th June 1970 from the CoordinatorGeneral, it was agreed that a group of senior Commonwealth and State officers will confer to discuss the material which has been collated. In addition to the correspondence referred to, there have been several discussions between Commonwealth and State officials on points of detail. The purpose of these communications has been to determine the overall extent of the reappraisal and the further work which will be necessary with a view to reaching agreement on the timing, nature and extent of the Commonwealth's participation in the reappraisal. 
I have not seen the report referred to by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition but this matter of a rail link to Bell Bay is obviously one of some significance for Tasmania and tire development of Tasmanian shipping.  I  would hope that some rationalisation of Tasmanian shipping could lead- to a reduction in the sea freight rates which are such a difficulty for Tasmania at the present time.  1  understood there was a general inquiry being made by Pak-Poy and Associates into this whole matter and I am not able to tell the honourable gentleman whether the Government would need to have the Pak-P.oy report as well as any other reports before some decision on this matter could- be made. T hope from what I have said that it will be clear to all that the matter is not escaping the attention of the Government. 
lt is true that I am seeing the deputation comprising the persons mentioned by the honourable member on the question of gold mining. These gentlemen know the decision which the Government has taken and which the Government is now proposing to pass into law. However, they wish to put facts before the Government which they think may cause some later amendments no doubt of what we do. I think it would be unusual for me to say that 1 refuse to see them at all to allow them to do that. That, I suggest, is the answer to the question. 
The honourable member is quite right when he states that I know that the Commonwealth Government through its Defence Department, or its Service departments, has title to a great deal of land around Sydney Harbour. I also know that the Commonwealth has stretched every nerve to endeavour to return to the State Government those areas which it can return without affecting the defence efforts which it needs to make. I also know that 1 have been and am in communication with the New South Wales Premier in correspondence which has not yet been completed on this whole matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will be aware, the direct responsibility for the conservation of wildlife lies with the States except in respect of those 
Territories administered by the Commonwealth. The shooting of kangaroos is either forbidden or controlled in the Commonwealth Territories. 
The Australian Fauna Authorities Conference, which mct in Darwin last May, discussed the widespread public concern that the kangaroo was in danger of extinction and expressed its confidence that there was no such threat. In the light of this view, further discussions with the Slates would appear unnecessary at this juncture. 
Nevertheless the position will be kept under review. The Government's desire to ensure the preservation of all species of kangaroos and other wildlife has been clearly demonstrated through the establishment of the House of Representatives Select Committee to enquire into these matters. The matter will be given further consideration in the light of that Committee's report. 
 The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Daily rates of travelling allowances for public servants stationed in the following countries were last varied as shown - 
Great Britain- with effect from 20.2.70. 
Italy- with effect from 30.5.69. 
Greece - with effect from 27.2.70. 
The rate existing prior to the date of variation and the amount of increase are as follows - 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board 
Daily rates of travelling allowance paid to officers of the Second, Third and Fourth Divisions of the Commonwealth Public Service stationed overseas 'on a long-term posting (i.e. for a period exceeding 6 months) and required to travel on official business within the country of posting are as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some53 pay claims have been lodged by Permanent Heads since July 1965. A pay claim is defined for this purpose as a claim seeking specific variation in the rates of pay of a designation or a designation group. 
A pay claim does not therefore includethe very large number of reports by Permanent Heads under section 29 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 seeking reclassification of individual positions or groups of positions to higher levels within the appropriate classification structure. Aslo, it does not include oral representations by Permanent Heads or written representations of a general nature in relation to levels of salaries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no instance in which the Board has ever sought the approval of my Government before making a regulation introducing new pay rates. 
See (1) above. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Officers of the Public Service Board regularly visit Australian missions abroad to review, inter alia, the various allowances paid to officers stationed in the country concerned. Travelling allowances are reviewed following these visits and also on other occasions following submission of information on relevant costs by the mission. 
Details of inspection visits made by officers of the Public Service Board to overseas countries during the last three years are as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rates of travelling allowance paid to public servants travelling on official business in (a) Australia and (b) overseas are based on periodical surveys conducted by the Public Service Board of relevant costs. Daily rates are calculated having regard to costs of accommodation at appropriate standards, meals in hotels or restaurants as appropriate, laundry and other incidental expenses. 
(a) Officers of the Commonwealth Public Service travelling on official business in Australia are paid travelling allowance on the following basis: 
I think that the Minister for Social Services would have a closer acquaintance with the matters raised by the honourable member than I would have, but 
I believe that the matters to which he is referring have arisen as a result of the introduction of the tapered means test, the tapered means test having been introduced by this Government in order to allow pensioners to earn more money or have more income without losing  $1  of pension for every  $1  of Income or  $1  of earnings that they get. This of course has been of great advantage to very many pensioners who previously were not pensioners at all and who have become part pensioners, and has been generally accepted as being a very great advance in the field of social services. I do not think the honourable member is correct - I just say I do not think the honourable member is correct - when he talks about the value of a home being something which is taken into account, because to the best of my knowledge the value of a home, as distinct from an income received by a pensioner, is not taken into account. 
I am just telling the honourable member what I believe. I think that is so. Having said that, the Government, far from being afraid that pensioners of this kind might receive too much income, has taken the positive steps that I have enumerated in order to enable people to get higher income and still draw a pension or part pension. This in fact is what the Government has done. 
In answer to the last part of the question, I presume it was by mining in the community in the usual way. I did notice the report in the newspaper to which the honourable member refers, and noted that there was this personal suggestion of wishing to become a  president  of a republic which, for someone who has, I think, upheld the bonds of royalty, is a rather strange approach. But what I did notice was, if I might call it, the ecumenical nature of the attack in the Legislative Council because, if I remember correctly and have read the report correctly, a leading member of the Labor Party in the Legislative Council,  Mr Galbally,  who, up until he spoke the other night, had been, I gather, adhering to Labor policy regarding State aid, seemed on this occasion to be diverting greatly from Labor policy which no doubt may lead to another inquiry into the Labor Party Executive in Victoria, because he did indicate that the Federal Government was overriding, was subjecting the States to control of a financial oligarchy and was in many other ways, according to his lights, misbehaving itself. As one who could not possibly be considered to be nearly as centralist as is the Leader of the Opposition, I can only repeat that it appeared to be an ecumenical attack and, I would have thought, rather more embarrassing to the Leader of the Opposition than to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me: 
Section 34 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 provides that - "A person is not eligible for appointment to the Commonwealth Service unless - 
the Board is satisfied, after he has undergone a medical examination approved by the Board as to his health and physical fitness; 
The existing medical standards for permanent appointment to the Commonwealth Service will, in certain circumstances, admit people in the categories referred to in the honourable member's question. 
These standards reflect - 
present medical knowledge; 
the long-established principle that staff accepted for permanent appointment should be covered by a scheme providing retirement, invalidity and death benefits; 
the need to maintain the efficiency of the Service; and , 
the specific medical requirements of particular occupations. 
The standards are being reviewed continually to take account of developments in the diagnosis and control of medical conditions. The Provident Account established under the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 facilitates the appointment of those who cannot meet the higher standards required for admission to the full pension scheme of the Superannuation Fund. Persons accepted for the Provident Account may subsequently apply for transfer to the Superannuation Fund as provided for in the Superannuation Act1922- 1969. Applicants for temporary employment are not normally required to undergo a medical examination. Medical examination may be required for employment in certain occupations which demand a particular standard of medical fitness or where particular types of medical unfitness could expose an employee or others to risk." 
The only statutory body falling within my ministerial responsibility not covered by the Public Service Board's adviceis the Institute of Aboriginal Affaire. Section 21 of the Australian Aboriginal Institute of Studies Act1964- 1966 prescribes that terms and conditions of employment are to be determined by the 
Council. These terms and conditions do not contain barriers to the employment of those physically handicapped those who have recovered from mental illness or who are mentally retarded. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that statistics are not maintained for the categories referred to in (a), (b) and (c) of part (1) of the question. In relation to Commonwealth departments, the Public Service Board has, however, provided the following figures showing the number of persons who failed to meet the medical standard for contribution to the Superannuation Fund but met the standard for contribution to the Provident Account: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Decentralisation and regional development is primarily a State responsibility under the Constitution. However, the Commonwealth and the States are co-operating in the work of an 
Officials Committee which is undertaking a joint pooling of knowledge about and study of the many issues involved in decentralisation. Moreover, the Commonwealth has itself implemented a number of measures which promote decentralisation, though these are not administered by any single Commonwealth organisation. 
Examples of Commonwealth measures include: a broad range of assistance to the 'naturally decentralised' rural industries (bounty/subsidy payments, tax concessions, marketing arrangements, special rural credit); the financing (in whole or in part) of a large number of development projects, such as the Snowy Mountains Scheme, Rail Standardisation, the Townsville-MountIsa railway, Beef Roads, the Brigalow Scheme and the Ord River Scheme; provision of financial assistance by way of loans to help finance the construction of a thermal power station at Gladstone; the establishment of Commonwealth defence installations at Salisbury and Edinburgh leading to growth of Elizabeth and Commonwealth investment at Woomera; provision of finance for rural roads under the Commonwealth Aid Roads arrangements; a petroleum price equalisation scheme which reduces price differentials between metropolitan and rural areas; provision of mining and mineral exploration incentives; and financial assistance for travel by rural workers under certain circumstances. 
-I am informed by the Pub lic Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consent determinations issued by the Public Service Arbitrator are of 2 broad types. There are those which are issued with the full consent of the Association or Associations concerned. There are also those which are issued with the consent of the Association or Associations concerned but without prejudice to the rights of the Association or Associations to pursue any arbitration claims for increases in part or whole of the rates involved in the determination. 
However, in both cases,the rates are a full and final response tothe claims of the Association or Associations and are not, so far as the Board is concerned, of a tentative or interim nature. 
The issue of 'without prejudice' determinations by the Arbitrator is advantageous to the members of the Commonwealth Service insofar as it enables the application of increased rates immediately without awaiting the final determination by the Arbitrator, if indeed the matter is pursued in arbitration by the Association or Associations concerned. 
by leave - I think it might well be appropriate if I were to express as I believe 1 can not only on behalf of the Government but on behalf of the Federal Parliament great shock and regret at the tragedy which has occurred during the construction of the bridge in Victoria. I believe that we should as a Federal Parliament extend our sympathy to the dependants of those who have been killed on this occasion. 
I think that any reasonable person must admit that if a company or a government or an individual is a member of an organisation carrying on some commercial activity and therefore has access to the costs of that organisation carrying on that activity then they must be in a better position to judge the accuracy or otherwise of cases put forward for increases in freights. I think that the Minister for Shipping and Transport might well elaborate if the Leader of the Opposition wishes to pursue the matter, but in my understanding of it, contrary to what has appeared in print, the costs of shipping in container ships are less than the costs of shipping in the conventional types of ships. 
Very much lower, and many of the conventional ships are still engaged in the trade to which the honourable the Leader of the Opposition refers. The statement I have made that the cost of the sea freight on conventional ships is much higher than the cost on container ships has been questioned. That is a matter of fact. That is a matter on which the Minister for Shipping and Transport I think might well, as the Minister responsible, inform the Leader of the Opposition at this time if he extends his question to that responsible Minister and to the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has supplied me with an answer, anticipating that this question might come, because it is a question of some importance - certainly prima facie. The advice we have received is that  Dr Guise  arrived at the Customs office carrying a number of gifts in a hessian bag. These gifts were for other persons. He stated that he did not know the nature of the gifts. Because of a strong and, I think, thoroughly reasonable presumption that quarantine problems might be involved, the bag was inspected by a Customs examining officer and one article was found to be a club with bird skins and feathers attached. That was referred to the quarantine officer on duty who informed  Dr Guise  that it was subject to appropriate treatment before it could be admitted into Australia. 
I think that no matter from where anybody comes, or whatever position they hold, there is an overriding responsibility on the Department of Customs and Excise to see that diseases that could be introduced into Australia with disastrous effects should not be risked being introduced by allowing any subject matters of this kind. At that stage and not before it, as I am informed,  Dr Guise  informed the Customs officer that he was in fact only in transit and not seeking to come into Australia - in transit to Fiji. So the Customs officer advised him that he could take that club and take it to Fiji, which he did. No other baggage of  Dr Guise  or his wife was inspected in any way. 
I cannot obviously give a general answer to a particular question of this kind, other than to say that I do not think it accurate to say that there are thousands of families who could never be expected to provide a son for service, because where families have sons of serviceable age, in all cases those sons have the same chance of being called up as anybody else, unless of course they are deferred as a result of their university studies or unless they decide to take the proper legal course, if they wish to avoid the chance of being called up, of joining the Citizen Military 
Forces. However, if the honourable gentleman brings a particular case to the attention of the Government it will be examined, and normally that is the course that would be followed to bring it to our attention. 
I am afraid I have not read the article to which the honourable member refers, but if there is some question in his mind that a book may not be allowed into the Parliamentary Library I think the question of admission to such a library would fall within your purview,  Mr Speaker,  rather than mine. I will seek to discover what the situation is and if it is your responsibility I will suggest that the honourable member talk to you. 
I understand that on the occasion to which the honourable member refers the Minister was engaged in a match with the Press, which it is notoriously difficult for a politician to win. I read in the papers, and for the accuracy of this I cannot vouch, that he did in fact score 3 runs on that occasion, but having regard to the great innings which he is playing on behalf of this Government and the political centuries he has scored I would not dream of retiring him. 
I find myself a little surprised at that question. I do not recall precisely what it was that the honourable member said to me on my first day in this House. I hope he will forgive me for that. But I find myself a little surprised by the question because I would think that it was well known, not only thought, that very many actions have been taken to try to prevent the widening gap between primary and secondary industry of which the honourable member has spoken, actions designed to assist those engaged in primary industry for which, I think, this Government can well take a lot of credit. 
The preparation and the introduction of this legislation fall entirely within the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry who, I am sure, is doing his best to see that the rural community gets the benefits which are proposed in this legislation. All I can say in reply, to the honourable member who asked the question is that I will take the question under consideration. 
I have not seen the resolution to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred. 
The honourable member asked me whether I have seen it. I have not seen it and that is the answer I am giving. Secondly, if it, in fact, suggests that there should be a State-sponsored grants commission, which I take it to be a grants commission set up by a State government to allocate money to local government authorities, then the setting up of such commission I would regard as a matter for the State government, but 1 would say also that the States would have a capacity to do this as a result of the  greatly increased grants made by the Federal Government to the State governments in the last arrangements with the Premiers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My answer of 12th June listed the subjects in respect of which permanent interdepartmental committees had been established. In many cases, e.g. Defence, more than one committee has been established to deal with particular aspects of the general subject. 
Whilst the information now sought by the honourable member could be obtained I am reluctant, as in the case of the information he sought in Question No. 1637, to authorise the time and expense which would be involved. 
Non-aligned Countries: Lusaka Conference  (Question No. 1939) 
I would like to answer the last part of the honourable member's question after having refreshed my mind on the facts so that I could answer him in writing. I understand he is saving: Would the Commonwealth Government be prepared, if it had the power and not the State Government, to permit people who I think are squatting on Garden Island without any right to the land on which they live to retain their homes and shacks built in that area? If that is the case, and I believe it is, I can only reply by. saying that the requirements of defence of Western Australia would need to be taken as paramount in this matter and therefore the interests of the Navy and the capacity of the Navy and the naval base which will help to defend Western Australia would not be able to be influenced by matters which the honourable member has mentioned. In : regard to the -question of Cockburn Sound; I spoke on this -recently to my colleague -the Minister for Defence. I think there has been a statement made to some inquiry by a former Labor candidate for a seat in New South Wales suggesting that great damage might occur by the construction of the causeway. I have seen no real evidence to substantiate this; though clearly the matter of the tidal flow and the amount of area through which the tide could flow, that amount being, if I could put it this way, the bridge' part as distinct from the hard causeway part, would have an effect on the general area and that I am sure would be taken into account by the construction authorities. 
The honourable member has referred to a part of the argument which I have advanced in speaking to the 
Young Liberals, and an argument in which I believe completely. The argument is that it is more difficult - not impossible, but more difficult - for a person who is not a white person to enter Australia than it is for a person who is a white person, and this 1 think is incontrovertible, though our laws are not in any way rigid and are quite liberal. Nevertheless that is incontrovertible. If a judgment were to be made on that alone, on the grounds that  a  man's worthiness or unworthiness, goodness or badness, capacity or incapacity is to be judged by the colour of his skin, then that approach could not, I think, be justified on moral grounds. 
But "the honourable member has not concluded what I said, because I then went on to point out that in every country in the world in which there are significant groups of different racial origin there are significant racial tensions and they grow the greater the groups are, and this is true not only in countries such as the United States and Great Britain where we have seen it but in countries such as Malaya where Chinese-Malayan tensions are great, in Indonesia, in countries such as Kenya where they have tension with East Africans. In all these countries, on an empirical test, this is so; and therefore, as I went on to say, and would be happy to go on to say now, I would not wish to import these kinds of tensions into this country because I think if that were done then that would be even more immoral than the question of just judging on the colour of the skin. If I may say so, I then concluded those remarks by saying that as far as I was concerned and this Government was concerned we do not propose to alter the liberalised policy we now have in any basic way because I believe it is working and working well and is far more generous than the immigration policies of the other countries in the world which most often tend to criticise our policy. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1969-70 161 works of art were acquired for the National Collection at a cost of $244,492. In addition 276 Melanesian artefacts were acquired at a cost of 318,326. 
The following Commonwealth building projects have allowed for works of art: 
Ginninderra High School, Canberra; Holt Primary School, Canberra; Duffy Primary School, Canberra; Belconnen 20 Primary School, Canberra; Building for the Trade group of departments, 
The implication seems to be that the majority of the countries in Asia and other members of the British Commonwealth are not trading with Communist China and therefore, because we trade with Communist China, we are becoming separated from them; but this of course is a completely false premise. As far as I know, most countries in the world trade with Communist China, though a number of them, including ourselves, have regard to a list of exports so that warlike material is not traded with Communist China. On the question of the recognition of that country, some countries recognise and have diplomatic relations with Communist China. We do not. 
I think that the 2 things are entirely different though, of course, as we will have noticed with great regret in this nation, even though people may be of the same colour they do have, when they are racial minorities of significance, tensions which can lead to the kind of actions which have recently been taking place in Canada. That, however, is quite different from what I was talking about yesterday. 
 We have had quite an interesting adjournment debate, I think, tonight, ranging from the obsession of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  with sheets, which he claimed was not a commercial but for which he could have been well paid if be had put in a bill to the sheet manufacturers concerned. I think we can leave that matter to one side because really what he was interested in was not sheets but washing what he thought was dirty linen but was not. The debate ranged from this matter to a plea from the heart of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  on how bad it is to reduce the rate paid to the airlines for the carriage of mail when, by so doing, we reduce the income of Ansett Airlines of Australia. If that is what he feels, fine. That is his right in approaching the matter. 
The honourable member can have the facts brought out. I am sure he can. But the real facts are that rates paid for the carriage of mail have been reduced. Does the honourable member agree? He may not like the fact, but they have been reduced. As a result not so much will be paid to Ansett Airlines, and this, upsets the honourable member for Newcastle. It does not. upset me. So he can go to the public and say: 'I think it is ter rible that the rate paid to the airlines for carrying mail should be reduced because Ansett's income will be reduced' and I will say: 'I do not think it is terrible'. And we can leave it at that. 
But what I am interested in as well are some of the statements made by the honourable member for Newcastle in referring to my own activities. He stated - I will talk about the last matter he raised - that I went and demanded time on 'This Day Tonight'. What in fact happened was that the Australian Broadcasting Commission representative approached me and said: Will you appear on "This Day Tonight"?' I said yes, and we then arranged a time for it. Subsequently the ABC representative came to me. rather shamefacedly, up here and said: 'We are terribly sorry but Sydney will not let you go on "This Day Tonight" because they cannot get  Mr Whitlam  to go on and they do not think it would be fair to put you on even though they have approached you, asked you to go on to it and made a time with you'. 
That is fair dinkum.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am a tolerant man but it did not seem to me to be entirely reasonable that having been approached and having made agreement of that kind f should be wiped by some person in Sydney. I did raise an objection to it. 1 did not go on the ABC that night but they did, on a subsequent night, put both  Mr Whitlam  and myself on the ABC. That is the story to which the honourable member for Newcastle referred and that cannot possibly be properly represented as going and demanding time on the ABC and getting upset when it did not happen. 
If I may say so,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to continue this story of the ABC approaching me and asking me to go on and then telling me I could not go on, they also had an arrangement for me to go on 'Four Comers'. They had  Mr Whitlam  on 'Four Corners' some weeks before. They .sought to put out feelers to try to take me off that too, but they did not come to full conclusion at the time. That is all I have to say on that particular matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  raised by the honourable member for Newcastle. I think that if he accepts those facts he will agree that it was hot right to say what he did about me. 
In regard to the other matter raised by the honourable member for Newcastle, which was a broadcast, a Press conference on television held here in Canberra. I want to make these points: First of all,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  there is no reason whatsoever why I should not have a Press conference in Canberra and why that should not be televised merely because there was an election in Victoria. It could bc, even if we accept- 
I will read the Act to you in a moment. Even if we accept what the honourable member for Newcastle said, he must agree that there is nothing wrong in having a Press conference, nothing wrong in having it televised, nothing wrong in having it broadcast in every other State than Victoria, but he thinks there was something wrong because it was broadcast in Victoria itself. Let me make this clear. 
Let me make this clear,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is not within my power or province, or within the power or province of the Government, to say which stations in what State will take a television programme that is being sent out. It is entirely within the province of those stations themselves to make that decision. Surely nobody thinks that a Prime Minister or a Government can say to a station: 'You must take a programme'. That is obvious. If a station takes a programme and is in contravention of the law, it can be prosecuted. But under no circumstances can it be said that that station was told or made to take a programme by a Prime Minister or a Government. That is the first point I want to make. 
The second point I want to make is that however it may appear to the honourable member for Newcastle it did not appear to to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that those stations in Victoria which took this programme were in any way in contravention of the Act. The Board must be regarded as knowing at least as much about this subject as the honourable member for Newcastle. The actual section of the Broadcasting and Television Act to which the honourable member for Newcastle referred says this: 
In this Section election means an election of a member or members of either House of the Parliament in the Commonwealth or a State. 
Election matter means matter commenting on or soliciting votes for a candidate at an election. 
Nothing in my view, and in the view of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is more important, in the Press conference I had could be said to be commenting on or soliciting votes for a candidate in a Victorian upper House election. The Act also states: 
Matter commenting on or advocating support of a political party to which a candidate at an election belongs. 
AH I did in this Press conference was not to comment on or advocate support for anything but to answer questions which I was asked by pressmen, and since I was asked on one occasion concerning the former Victorian A.L.P. Executive's call for disobedience of the law and mutiny I naturally said I thought this was a most unfortunate thing for such a formerlyeminent body to have advocated. But that, all must agree, cannot have been a matter for decision at an election for the Upper House in Victoria because it has no authority whatsoever in these matters. Was it a matter commenting on or stating or indicating any of the issues being submitted to the electors? No, it was not. None of the questions I was asked was concerned in any way with any issue being put to the electors for the Upper House in some Victorian electorate. Was it a matter referring to meetings held or to be held in connection with an election? No, it was not. However, it was not for me to interpret the Act, merely to bring it to the attention of the honourable member for Newcastle. It is for the Broadcasting Control Board to interpret the Act and it has so done. If I may say so, I believe it has shown a thoroughly impartial, sensible and unquestionable approach as to how this Act should be interpreted. But, if in any way- 
It has at least as much experience as the honourable member for Newcastle. But if it was in any way to be held to be wrong then that could be tested in the courts, but it should not be held up as an attack on myself or on the Government which, to come back to the point I made before, was unable to say to any radio station or television station that they must take or should take the programme which was broadcast from Canberra at that time. I believe that this statement by the honourable member for Newcastle is just as untenable as the other unsupported and unsupportable statement he made that I demanded time on'This Day Tonight'. So all I can say is that having had these cases put by the honourable member for Newcastle I repudiate them. Having had his plea on behalf of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd that postal rates should not be reduced so that Ansett Industries can have a higher income, I reject that too. In regard to the honourable member for Grayndler, who seems to have taken to bis bed, I can only say: May choirs of angels sing him to his rest, and the longer the rest the better. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Board believes that the automatic maintenance of pre-existing pay relativities is not an appropriate basis for pay fixation: 
The salary rates of professional engineers in the Commonwealth Service were endorsed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a decision issued on Srd December 1969 after a full work value hearing. 
Early this year the 3 Associations representing professional engineers in the Commonwealth Service lodged claims with the Board for increases in those rates. On 18th June the Public Service Board, ' in a meeting with ' the 3 Associations, advised them that the evidence available to the Board was insufficient to justify increases in the rates endorsed by the Commission in December 1969. The Board's reasons were explained in a written statement issued to the Associations at that meeting. On 30th September 1970 the 3 Associations again met the Board and produced additional material relevant to the salaries of professional engineers in the Commonwealth Service: This material is being studied by the Board preparatory to further discussions with the Associations. 
Yes. In making that decision, the Board assessed all factors relevant to the fixation of pay rates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that response to the requirements of the market is a basic element of the Board's system of salary administration. Indeed, in its response on 18th June to claims lodged by the three Associations representing professional engineers in the Commonwealth Service, it drew attention to some movements which had occurred in the market and whilst expressing the general view that rates for engineers in the Commonwealth Service remained competitive, stated that it would undertake towards the end of 1970 a further survey of rates paid by other employers (particularly in the private sector) in order to be able to assess any movements in the market apparent at that time. 
As I have already advised in answer to Question No. 1894 by the honourable member, the three Associations met the Board again on 30th September and produced, inter alia, additional material relating to rates paid outside the Commonwealth Service and in particular rates paid in private industry. That material is under study by the Board preliminary to further discussions with the Associations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The State Education Ministers released a summary of the findings of the Nation-Wide Survey of Educational Needs on 1st September. 1 wrote to all Premiers on 7th September asking for the reaction of their Governments, and for an indication of the extent to which they would wish to give priority to the proposed programmes in education, having regard to their other responsibilities. As at the time of preparation of this reply I have received letters from the Premiers of Queensland and South Australia dated 12th and 16th October respectively. 
Papua and  New  Guinea: School Children (Question No. 1475)  Mr Whitlam  asked  the  Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many (a) indigenous and (b) expatriate children of school age live in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
How many (a) indigenous and (b) expatriate students in the Territory attend: 
administration (A) primary, (B) secondary and (C) technical schools, 
subsidised mission (A) primary, (B) secondary and (Q technical schools, 
unsubsidised mission schools and 
tertiary institutions. 
How many (a) indigenous and (b) expatriate children of Territory residents are assisted to receive: 
primary, 
secondary and 
tertiary education in Australia or elsewhere overseas, and what is the (A) nature and (B) amount of assistance to the students and the cost to the Administration in each category. 
I have been a little interested in the great interest shown by the Opposition in the reprehensible attack on the Yugoslav Embassy. But it has also been crossing my mind while this has been going on that not only was less interest shown when the American Embassy was attacked- 
Really! There was also less interest shown when my own office was attacked with a brick and a petrol bomb. No doubt I can understand why the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition would regard them as being in different categories, but on the whole I think they come within the same category - they are all reprehensible. The Attorney-General is dealing with them, I believe, in a completely impartial way while the Opposition clearly is not. 
I believe that not only 1 but virtually everybody in Australia would have been shocked, distressed and disgusted that a man could be kidnapped from in front of his home where he was playing with his children, taken away by thugs and murdered because those thugs wanted some kind of political activity on their behalf. This kind of thing I believe in the hearts of Australians bas the same effect as did the senseless assassination of  President  Kennedy or Robert Kennedy where we can see that a man's life can be snuffed out like that by probably half-witted people walking the streets. I can assure the honourable member that that is the answer to his first question. 
I do not think it was due to underestimation by the Canadian Government of the strength of feeling for a so-called free Quebec movement. There have been in the past, as the honourable member will know, instances covering quite a period of time when bombs were placed in letter boxes and other such activities were taken. The Canadian Government I think was aware of the movement but perhaps did not have the capacity to look sufficiently into a crystal ball, as none of us would have, to see that this kind of senseless murder might take place. I do not think that there are organised movements of this kind in this country although there are individuals who have from time to time endeavoured to make bomb attacks. I am quite sure that if such organised movements should arise in this country the people of Australia would expect the Government to see that they were kept in check by any methods necessary. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation because I believe  that  quite inadvertently the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  is completely misrepresenting what I have said. I have never said on the occasion of which we are speaking that the Leader of the Opposition would not appear. He seems to have taken it into his mind that he has been accused of refusing to appear. What I have stated and what is the fact is that the Australian Broadcasting Commission in seeking to excuse its repudiation of an arrangement for me to go on 'This Day Tonight' said it did not think it was right for me to go on after it had thought about it because it had not asked  Mr Whitlam  to go on. I said: That has nothing to do with me, get him on'. It said: We cannot get him on'. It could not get him on; he had gone away somewhere. Eventually he was got on. This is exactly what was said to me - it could not get him on. There can be no question of that. I think the Leader of the Opposition is being far too sensitive about this because the point was not anything to do with him at all. The point was an accusation by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that 1 had demanded time on the ABC when the facts were it was offered to me and then withdrawn because the Leader of the Opposition was not on it and could not be got on it. 
I do not see why 1 should give him a platform. 
I am not aware of the intricacies of this matter to which the honourable member refers but I think that on this whole question - and I would not confine it to one particular organisation which may be out of favour with the Opposition but would relate it to any such organisation or individuals in it - I cannot do better than to paraphrase remarks which I made on this situation some years ago and before I became Prime Minister; those remarks being that we would not wish to see imported into Australia the old, sad feuds of Europe. We wish people to come here from whatever organisation they might have come and to become Australians, and settle any questions they have without resort to violence or, indeed, without resort to seeking to take over the streets. 
The  Clerk  of the Senate and the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives have supplied the following answer to the honourable members question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no occasion on which my Government has so consulted the Public Service Board. 
I think the honourable member has asked quite a number of questions in one. One is: Would the Government look at the question of providing taxation concessions to persons who are improving land? That is what it boils down to. 
Well, that is denied, but the whole basis of the question was that certain people described as Pitt Street farmers were spending money on altering land for agricultural purposes, that they should not be allowed to do so, and that we should look at the policy we have which is one of giving taxation concessions to people who spend their money on improving the productivity of their land. It may well be - 1 do not know - that some States allow some land to be improved which would better be left in its natural state. As to that I cannot offer an opinion but I can say that the question of looking at taxation concessions for the purpose of improving production in primary industry is one that would need to be looked at very carefully before it was changed. One of the other questions I was asked was whether the livelihood of people engaged in rural industry would be put in jeopardy as a result, if it occurred, of Britain entering the European Economic Community. I think we would all acknowledge that there could be no doubt at all that certain rural industries would be gravely affected should Britain's bid to enter the EEC be successful. That is well understood. 
On the question of dairy produce, the House will remember that this Government some time ago brought in a scheme in order to enable the putting out of production of uneconomic dairy farms and the reconstruction of that industry. That has been a long time coming into implementation because it has been virtually impossible until now to get State governments to agree. The State governments have the constitutional authority in this area. However, I believe that now all States but one have agreed and this can go ahead. All that I can add to what I have said is that this Government is fully aware of the grievous state in which people engaged in rural industry now find themselves. Much has been done to assist them but a great deal more in the way of helping in rural reconstruction and in the way of examining finances needs to be done in order to help them. But whatever we may do in that direction would come to nothing if the people engaged in these rural industries were to have an additional intolerable cost burden imposed on them as a result of a 35-hour week. 
I have not seen the attack to which the honourable member refers, but we must remember that  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, has caused considerable delay on the start of a project which could greatly increase the water supply to South Australia and be of great benefit to that State. We must remember that he took it upon himself to defeat in the South Australian Parliament a Bill embodying the agreement which would have enabled Dartmouth to go ahead, that agreement having been ratified by this Parliament, by the Parliament of New South Wales and by the Parliament of Victoria. 
Yes. That agreement having been ratified by this Parliament, by the Parliament of New South Wales and by the Parliament of Victoria and being of great advantage to South Australia in that it gave an extra 250,000 acre feet a year, was defeated by the present Premier of South Australia. That is merely a matter of history. Therefore we must also remember that he asked for a conference on this matter with the representatives of the other States and of this Government and, that conference having been held, he was unable to bulldoze the other States into agreeing with what he wanted. I can only hope that he will not persist in this obstinate course of action and that we will be able to go ahead with a project which will be of great benefit to 3 States including, particularly, South Australia. 
I do not remember whether when  Mr Dunstan  initially came to Canberra 1 suggested to him that he would need to sign the agreement which had already been agreed to by all the other States or he would be unlikely to get anything at all, but if I did say that I was warning him of what the situation was and what the situation has turned out to be. In relation to the other matter he raises! - apparently the question of rail standardisation and the alleged long delay in answering his initial letter I can only say this: Certainly in lune the Premier wrote to me expressing unhappiness with an agreement on this matter which had been reached with the previous government after Maunsell and Partners had made an investigation of the matter on a brief agreed to by the Commonwealth Government and the Government of South Australia. 1 cannot say on what date he wrote his letter or posted it because he sent it off without a date on it. But we got it on 12th June and it was acknowledged on 29th June. Following that, and bearing in mind that this complicated matter of rail standardisation had been the subject of a report by Maunsell and Partners and had been the subject of interdepartmental consideration, and consideration and discussion with South Australia, a suggestion that the whole thing should be changed into something else obviously required considerable discussion with the Treasury and with the Department of Shipping and Transport before any final reply could be made. I am surprised at this outburst from the Premier- 
Of course I signed the acknowledgment. Do you not like this story being unfolded? Are you trying to stop it? I have just pointed out the lack of basis for this outburst on behalf of the State Premier. I am surprised that it should have happened, because when he was up here for the Premiers Conference he came to speak to me and he advanced in a reasonable way his worries concerning the report put in by Maunsell and Partners, his worries concerning the efficiency of that scheme as opposed to a scheme suggested by the South Australian Railways Commissioner, his worries about various economies and his willingness to pick up any extra moneys involved himself, and after a very amicable conversation al that time we said: 'Right, we will have a look at this again.' He has been written to and told that it would be examined to se whether the views he put forward were reasonable or right, but it appears, just as in the case of delaying the water supply to South Australia aud trying to blame someone else, he is trying to make unjustified political capital out of a case where we are trying to meet him and where so far nothing more has happened. 
I think the question referred to voluntary organisations and church run organisations which were conducting nursing homes for the aged. My attention had not been drawn to the plight in which it is said they find themselves. Indeed, I had thought that this Government's action in increasing the payments for people in such homes who needed heavy attention from S2 to S5 a day had been of considerable assistance to such non-profit making homes. All I can say is this: We have, of course, in the field of health done a number of highly beneficial things. We have put an end to the fear of people who had to stay in hospital for a long period of time and whose insurance ran out before that time was completed. We have, if I may say so, brought in a health scheme infinitely better than the one which was put forward by the Opposition and which does much more for the people of this country. It is our objective to continue to provide such benefits and one of those objectives we must have must be to try to remove the fear of long continued illnesses in nursing homes and this we have in our minds, as I have stated previously. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the answer to question No. 947 the honourable member was advised that an appellant before a Commonwealth Public Service Promotions Appeal Committee ls not entitled to an advocate. 
There are no provisions in the Public Service Act 1922-1968 or Regulations relating specifically to the question of an entitlement of either a promote* or an appellant to be represented by an advocate before a Promotions Appeal Committee. The provisions of the Act and Regulations dealing specifically with Promotions Appeal Committees are sections 50 and 97 and regulations 109, 109D, 109F, I09H and 116. They are silent, as indeed are the Act and Regulations as a whole, on the question of representation by an advocate before a Promotions Appeal Committee. 
and (4) As a result of a query as to entitlement to legal representation, the Public Service Board has conveyed to Chairmen of Promotions Appeal Committees copies of legal advice the effect of which is that it is the duty of each committee to determine its own procedure. The Board has also made clear to such Chairmen that the Board does not favour legal representation at hearings of Promotions Appeal Committees. in taking this view the Board saw Promotions Appeal Committees as tribunals discharging the function of assessing personal qualities of officers competing for promotion, not to determine rights. lt noted that the Committee of Inquiry into Sys tems of Promotion and Temporary Transfers (commonly referred to as the Bailey Committee) had specifically advised against appointment of a judicial  chairman.  The Board considered, inter alia, that legal representation of promotees and appellants - 
might negate one of the main ways in which a reasonable decision is reached in some cases, i.e. by observing the respective abilities of the parties to marshal their facts and present a convincing case; and 
could give one officer an advantage over another merely because he is financially able to afford payment of counsel. 
In conveying to the Chairmen of Promotions Appeal Committees the views referred to in the answers to questions (3) and (4) above the Board was not acting in breach of the Public Service Act or of the Public Service regulations. 
I propose to answer that question since it seeks to deal with a matter I have already raised and stated as an objective of the Government: - and it is an objective of the Government. The details of it are matters of policy and will not be disclosed in answer to questions in the House. 
I believe, though 1 would like to look up the matter more carefully, that there is protection for a political party in a Senate election to prevent unauthorised persons from standing in that party's name. For example, I understand that political parties group together their endorsed candidates and that some candidate who was not so endorsed would not be in that group. I would believe that there would be opportunity for a political party to take action - probably legal action - against any individual who sought to stand under a party label when he was not endorsed by that party. In the entirely hypothetical case allegedly which has arisen, this is not in fact at issue at this time because the individual mentioned, whom I would not for a moment at this time seek to asperse, was chosen and endorsed by the monolithic and junta-ridden Victorian executive. I use the words of the Leader of the Opposition: It was he who called it a monolithic and junta-ridden body, not me. This representative of the Trade Union Defence Committee and the junta-ridden body will be sitting as an endorsed candidate on the platform with the Leader of the Opposition tonight. Unless some action is taken, which seems most unlikely, to do something about the Victorian executive he would bc endorsed and the question would, therefore, not arise. 
The Government during its term of office intends to continue with the programme of alleviating social distress. It has a programme which has been more extensive than any other programme in a similar period of time, and it has done more in these fields than I can think has happened at any other time at all - not only in the field of which the honourable member speaks because thai is confined to pensions alone, but also in providing such social services as vastly improved health schemes with which the honourable member who asked the question will, I hope, agree. For example, what we have done in this field is to provide a scheme where the individual pays less than he would have done under an alternative scheme and gets back more than he would have done under an alternative scheme, which must help the whole spectrum of people requiring health benefits. I can say this: We have, as our objectives, the amelioration of the suffering of the old, the sick, the invalid and others in this community, and I believe it fair to say, on the record, that what we specifically promise we perform. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Premiers of all States. 
Since becoming Prime Minister,I have received over 60 separate communications on this subject from the Premiers. I cannot see that listing all the dates of all communications would serve any meaningful purpose and do not propose to ask officers to undertake this work. 
The answer to that question is no, we do not think that extended working hours are required. But we do believe that at this stage in our economic development the reduction of working hours to 35 would, as any sensible person must see, either greatly reduce production - surely that follows - or greatly increase the price of what is produced. If that is so,  Mr Speaker,  then those least able to stand this loss of production and the increased prices will be the ones that are hurt most by it. In other words, the rural industries, already badly hit, will undoubtedly have their costs added to should this proposal, which I am told is supported by  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition, go through. The rural industries would undoubtedly have an extra crippling burden added to them. So would all those on fixed incomes - superannuitants, pensioners and others. I think that anybody who regards this dispassionately must agree that what is required in this country are new amenities, new schools, new roads and, at the same time, new health and social services and increased living standards. They must agree that this cannot happen if production is reduced or prices are raised. 
Without referring to the last 2 parts of the honourable member's question, I think the first part as to how safe or how accurate is the advice could be answered by saying that the policy of the Opposition that we should withdraw from Vietnam on the plea that that would end the war is manifestly absurd. What has happened is this: As the result of disregarding the policy of the Opposition, as the result of remaining with our allies in Vietnam, we have now reached the stage where the South Vietnamese are able to take over more of the burden themselves and we are able to begin withdrawal. We have also reached the stage at which the  President  of the United States of America has proposed a ceasefire and negotiations. Clearly, if we were to do what the Opposition wants and withdraw at this stage there would be unlikely to be a ceasefire or negotiations because the enemy would see that they could gain what they wanted because, regardless of anything, we were going to withdraw. I would say,  Mr Speaker,  that in fact the result would be either to prolong the war or to hand the victory to the Vietcong on a plate. 
The consideration of this matter, which has been going on for some time, has been in the carriage of the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Minister for Social Services. They have been conferring on the matter. Other things regarding it will be made known at the proper time. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes, both the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government for some considerable time have been raising the question of assistance for the underground railways. The New South Wales Government, of course, has been pursuing the building of its own railway with its own finances, and I gather that the Victorian Government proposes to do the same. I do not feel that I have any responsibility to answer the Leader of the Opposition on what  President  Nixon does or what happens in West Germany. What we are interested in, I thought, was what happened in Australia, and what has happened in Australia is that this Government has provided for urban transport in the form of roads about a half a billion dollars more in this agreement than was provided in the last, or for all roads, but has removed the former blockage which prevented this being spent on roads in urban areas. What it has also done in the railway projects to which the honourable member refers is a matter of record if we look at the standardised rail gauges throughout Australia. 
-I did notice the oddity referred to and took the opportunity to And out what the dictionary definition of joss' was because I was no more sure of what it was than apparently the Leader of the Opposition was. But it turns out to mean 'a Chinese figure of a deity or an idol'. I can assure the House and the Leader of the Opposition that 1 do not regard  Mr Hawke  as a Chinese figure of a deity or an idol. It may be that he was referring to the secondary meaning which is a thin cylinder or stick of fragrant tinder mixed with clay'. I do not know which of them he was referring to, but 1. can assure him that if he meant the first definition he was incorrect; if he meant the second, he was rather insulting  Mr Hawke. 
The Commonwealth has been negotiating with the Government of New South Wales for some considerable time on the matter of the foreshore land around Sydney. It has been our objective to return to the people of Sydney as much of the foreshore land held by the Commonwealth as could be done provided the defence requirements and the other responsibilities of the Commonwealth Govern ment were not impeded. The Press reports to which the honourable member refers indicate the size and location of the lands under discussion. The actual final reply or the last reply to the Commonwealth offer from the Premier of New South Wales was received in my office only yesterday morning but it does appear that the Commonwealth's proposals are generally acceptable to the State. I think there are one or two details still to be finalised before any final agreement is reached. I had thought that this matter would be the subject of an announcement by the Premier of New South Wales and myself, but I can well understand the enthusiasm of  Mr Lewis  at the prospect which has opened up by the Commonwealth Government's farsighted and generous action. 
May I add,  Mr Speaker,  that our objectives were to get rid of such land as we could without interfering with our reponsibilities and to ensure that the land that we divested ourselves of was retained for park purposes and nothing else. 
I saw in the newspapers a report of the statement referred to but that is my sole knowledge of that particular statement. I have indicated before in this House and outside it that the Government believes it essential to protect the civil rights of minorities but it believes it equally essential to protect the civil rights of the majorities and will not permit organised minorities to go beyond the law and interfere with the rights of the majorities. 
We are reaching the close of this period of sittings which brings to an end another parliamentary year. It has been an exceptionally busy year and the Autumn session saw the greatest number of sittings for 14 years. As is customary at the close of a parliamentary year I wish to express our appreciation to you,  Mr Speaker,  for the firm and impartial way in which you have handled the business of the House and, indeed, to express the thanks of all of us to all those - the attendants, those in the parliamentary dining room, Hansard - who keep this Parliament running. 
I wish particularly at the end of this parliamentary year to talk a little on the fact that it marks the closing chapter of one of the outstanding careers ever held in the Federal Parliament. John McEwen has served longer as a member and as a Minister than any other man in the Parliament. 
The Deputy Prime Minister and the right honourable member for Murray has been in this House for over 36 years and has been a Minister for a period totalling a quarter of a century. If the House will bear with me one moment I would like to read into the record the posts which have been held by this great servant of Australia. 
He was Minister for the Interior from November 1937 to 1939; Minister for External Affairs from March 1940 to October 1940 - if I may interpose, I think he was always had a frustrated ambition to be Minister for External Affairs in that it is something I know so much interests him - Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation from October 1940 to October 1941; member of the Australian Advisory War Council; member of the War Cabinet from 1940 to 1941; Minister for Commerce and Agriculture from December 1949 to January 1956; Minister for Trade from January 1956; Deputy Prime Minister from 26th March 1958; Acting Prime Minister on many occasions; Acting Treasurer; Acting Minister for External Affairs; Acting Minister for Defence and Prime Minister from 19th December 1967 to 10th January 1968. He has been the leader of the Australian Country Party from 26th March 1958 and has represented the Australian Government at numerous overseas conferences during that time. He was appointed a Privy Counsellor in 1953 and appointed to the Order of Companions of Honour in the New Year's Honours List in 1969. I suppose his career of service to Australia can be said to have begun when he enlisted in the first Australian Imperial Force on 9th August 1918. 
There is, indeed, in comparatively few words a record of service of various kinds of which any Australian could be proud and on which I believe the whole of this House and all members of it would wish to congratulate him. I think there will be other occasions in the future for us to pay a full tribute to John McEwen but today, since it is the last time on which he will be taking his seat in the House after this last year of service, I wish to say that Australia and the Parliament are greatly in his debt. I wish to add a personal word of thanks for his friendship during the period of time I have been Prime Minister and before when 
I was a Minister, for his co-operation and for his support. I have found John McEwen to be an extremely hard fighter for the causes in which he believes; to be a man never devoid of strong arguments to advance in favour of the causes in which he believes but a man governed by reason and a man above all who when once an arrangement or an agreement had been reached could be trusted implicity to keep that arrangement or that agreement no matter what the circumstances might be. This is a high tribute to pay to a man. 
As I said, he first sat on the benches of this Parliament 36 years ago. He won an international reputation as a tenacious and successful negotiator, as other negotiators from other countries throughout the world will ruefully admit. He enjoys the healthy respect of leaders of other countries and all those with whom he has negotiated. I think his name is synonymous with the interests of the rural industries of Australia and I think they have had no greater champion than he. There will be, I believe, in the years ahead people who look back and not only say what I have said now but who will point to things which will still be in operation and say: 'That is greatly serving Australia's interests and that was initiated or supported by John McEwen'. I refer to such things as the Japanese Trade Treaty which now is of such great importance to us and in the future will I believe be of even greater importance. I refer to such things as the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I refer to such actions, in which I was glad to be associated, as the re-entry of the Australian Government into overseas shipping. I refer to the actions taken to preserve and protect and enlarge Australian equity interest in Australian resources as they develop. These will be monuments, enduring monuments, to a service which we know because we have seen it, and which the future will know because of the monument resulting from this service. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Labour and National Service and the Public Service' Board have advised that the New South Wales Government and some private employers make up, under widely varying schemes, the pay of at least some employees. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given on 15th August 1967 in answer to a similar Parliamentary Question asked by the honourable member (Ilansard page 84). 
The  answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) i refer the honourable member to the answer I gave today to Question No. 614. 
The answer to  the honour able  member's question is  as follows: 
The Departments concerned have provided the information set out in the following tables 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer lo (1). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 23rd September 1970. 
 Mr Speaker,  I have to inform the House that a former Governor-General, FieldMarshal Viscount Slim. K.G.. G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., G.B.E., D.S.O., M.C., died in London on 14th December. 1970 after a long illness. I am sure I do not need to remind honourable members that Lord Slim was a highly respected and popular Governor-General and a courageous professional soldier who had risen through the ranks. He had a particularly warm place in the hearts of Australians. 
Lord Slim was born on 6th August 1891 and spent most of his youth in Birmingham where he began his working life as a junior clerk. Then he became a gang foreman and after that an elementary school teacher. At the outbreak of the First World War he joined the Royal Warwickshire Regiment and, after a short spell in the ranks, was given a commission. By August 1915 he had seen action at Gallipoli, - where he was wounded, France and Mesopotamia, where he was wounded again, and had been awarded the Military Cross. Although he was then discharged as permanently unfit, he rejoined the Army within a year and saw action in France and in Baghdad. After the war he went to India and spent the next 20 years in the Indian Army. 
When the Second World War broke out he was Brigade Commander of the 5th Indian Division in the Sudan. He also served in Eritrea, Iraq and Syria and. when Burma was falling, he was sent to command the 1st Burma Corps. He was given command of the famous Fourteenth Army which finally cleared the Japanese from the Indian frontier and eventually right out of - the sub-continent. He wrote two notable books about the war in Burma: 'Defeat into Victory' and 'Courage'. In 1947 he left the Army to become a full-time member of the British Railways Executive.. In 1948 he was asked to return to the Army as Chief of the Imperial General Staff and was promoted to Field-Marshal. In 1952 he was appointed Governor-General of Australia in succession  to  Sir William  McKell. He remained Governor-General until January I960, a term of office longer than any except that of Lord Gowrie. He travelled tirelessly to all parts of Australia, and both he and Lady 
Slim, though she had a great deal of illness, devoted themselves to their tasks. On retiring from his post as Governor-General,  Sir William  Slim was created Viscount Slim. In 1963 he was appointed  Deputy  Constable and Lieutenant-Governor of Windsor Castle. He remained in that post until June last year. 

 Sir. on behalf of the Australian Government and people I extend our sympathy to his widow and family. A memorial service for the late Lord Slim will be held at St John's Church, Reid, at noon tomorrow week, Wednesday, 24th February. I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death on 14th December 1970 of FieldMarshal Viscount Slim, K.G., G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., G.B.E., D.S.O., M.C., a former Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia from 1953 to 1960, and tenders its profound sympathy to Viscountess Slim and family in their bereavement. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move:: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death on 30th November 1970 of James Patrick Ormonde, a senator for the State of New South Wales since 19SS, and places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement.. 

 Senator Ormonde was born in 1905 in Scotland. He came to Australia as a young boy. He was educated at the Marist Brothers College, West Maitland. He then worked on the northern coalfields before turning to journalism. By the 1940s, he had become prominent in the organisational side of the New . South Wales Labor movement. He, in 1958, was appointed to the Senate to fill a casual vacancy and was elected at the general elections held later that year. He was re-elected in 1964 and his term in the Senate was due to expire next June. 
During my time as a senator, 1 came to know him well and personally as a dedicated Labor man and a man of integrity, high principles and, above all, great humanity.  Senator Ormonde  became a member of the Public Works Committee in 1962 and of the House and Printing Committees at later times. He contributed to the work of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution which presented its report to the last Parliament. He represented Australia as a delegate to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in London in 1966 and, during that year, was a member of the Executive Committee of the Australian group of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. He was a member of the delegation which visited New Zealand with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in 1967. 

 Sir, on behalf of the Government I extend our sympathy to his widow and to his family in support of the motion that 1 have proposed in which this House expresses its regret at his passing. 
It is with regret that I have to inform the House of the death on 20th December 1970 of  Mrs Doris  Amelia Blackburn.  Mrs Blackburn  was the widow of Maurice Blackburn who held the seat of Bourke until 1943. After his death,  Mrs Blackburn  won the seat in 1946 as an independent Labor candidate. She thus became the second woman to sit in this House.  Sir, Mrs Blackburn  was one of the founders of the Aborigines Advancement League and of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders and is well remembered for her work in this area. We extend our sympathy to her family. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to inform the House that, following the resignation of the Right Honourable  Sir John  McEwen, the Honourable J. D. Anthony has been appointed  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry. The Honourable Ian Sinclair has been appointed Minister for Primary industry and the Honourable P. J. Nixon Minister for Shipping and Transport. The Honourable R. J. D. Hunt has been appointed Minister for the Interior.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson will continue to represent the Minister for Trade and Industry in the Senate,  Senator DrakeBrockman  will continue to represent the Minister for Primary Industry and  Senator Cotton  will continue to represent the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for the Interior. 
Since the House met last, the name of the Department of External Affairs has been changed to Department of Foreign Affairs and the Right Honourable William McMahon was sworn in as Minister for Foreign Affairs on 6th November 1970. 
I said something very similar to what the honourable member asked me if I said, and I can give him the printed words actually used. But it was along the lines that with wage awards in the arbitration court and in other areas, the control of the economy was not entirely now in the hands of governments - not just the Commonwealth Government, but governments generally. This is no real change in essence from what has occurred before, but it has become much more evident because the effects on the economy of such awards have been much heavier and have led to much greater cost increases. This is an area where no government can interfere at the moment in the present state of the law, and that being so, it must be conceded that it is an area where decisions can be made which have a very great impact on the economy but which cannot at present be affected by governmental action. 
1 think it is not for me to say what would be or would not be  a  reasonable increase in this field; this is something which, in the event of a disagreement such as has occurred, could perhaps better be looked at by some independent authority. In reply to the second part of the question. I believe that there are a number of courses which are open, at any rate, to governments. For example, it is within the competence of State governments, should they wish to do so, to bring in the equivalent of price fixing on these services. This is not the proper and best way of dealing with this matter, as any doctor here would agree, because it would mean that no doctor, no matter if he were more skilful than another and if patients were prepared to pay him above the common fee out of their own pocket, would be enabled to charge any more than the level set down. This would not be in the interests of the doctors or, 1 think, of the patients. But that is a course which one State, I gather, has already indicated that it might embark upon. The participating doctors scheme is obviously another course which is open i:i this field in order to see that neither the patient nor the taxpayer is mulcted too heavily by people choosing their own fee levels. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I recently spoke to the nation on the state of the economy and on the likely inflationary effects of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's award of a 6 per cent increase in wages and salaries. I said then that in order to decide what action should be taken now, Cabinet had sought to discover the areas in which demand seemed to be growing most strongly. One of those areas is the public sector - spending by governments - and we believe one of the first lines of attack on rising costs and prices should be to restrict what is being spent in that area. 
When our Budget was introduced last August it was estimated that total 'Commonwealth' expenditure would be $7,883m. 1 should say here, I think, that although called Commonwealth expenditure, this amount included $2.708m for reimbursement grants and other payments to the States. Indeed, such payments made up more than one-third of the Commonwealth Budget. The total increase was 11.2 per cent more than the year before. But since that Budget was formulated the Government has been faced with significant additional expenditure. The national wage case decision and other wage determinations are estimated to add directly, in the rest of this financial year, $88m to the Commonwealth's own wage and salary bill in 1970-71. In addition, those wage determinations, because they have led to an increase in average wages greater than was expected, will require the Commonwealth to pay an additional $20m to the States under the formula between the Commonwealth and the States. In addition, we will need to pay some S58m to the States in this financial year to recompense them for the loss of the receipts duty tax on which they had budgeted. Mainly as a result of these two outlays, payments to the States are now expected to exceed the Budget estimates by some $83m. and emergency payments associated with recent floods will doubtless increase the outlays required. 
Other additional demands on our resources since the Budget was brought down include the provision of $12m as a capital advance to the Australian Wool Commission, and we believe some $6m will be required this financial year for rural debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. We must also expect increases in costs of the material used by the Government. So all in all, it is estimated by the Treasury that the net increase in expenditure since the Budget was prepared would amount to approximately S242m, if departments were provided with the sums they have asked for. This is the background against which we have decided that we should make reductions in what would otherwise have been spent. 
Having made a complete and detailed survey of Commonwealth expenditures, we propose to reduce the amounts which departments have sought by some $75m in the remaining months of this financial year. 
These reductions are made across the whole range of Commonwealth departments, but they do not involve any reductions in our payments to the States. Our object has been to effect reductions in the Commonwealth expenditures for Commonwealth purposes. We have not sought to achieve this at the expense of the States. A dissection of the reduction of 75m as between the main categories of Commonwealth expenditure is provided in a table which, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="071131197102162_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

Further details of the various reductions will be provided as necessary by individual Ministers. These reductions are spread right across the board, but it will be observed that the areas where the more substantial savings have been made are defence, capital works and capital advances, and departmental running expenses. We were particularly anxious to effect economies in administrative expenditures, including the overtime and salary expenditures of Commonwealth departments. At the same time we have endeavoured to avoid reducing expenditures on essential development activities. In more general terms we have sought to reduce the contribution of Commonwealth expenditures to total demand and to curb the Commonwealth's demands n the labour market. 
Thus the reductions in departmental expenditures will involve restraint on Public Service employment. The Public Service Board reported to me that a routine statistical projection made prior to my instructions indicated an increase in 1970-71, in full-time employment under the Public Service Act, of 4.6 per cent on the numbers employed as at 30th June 1970. In 1969-70 the comparable increase was 4.8 per cent, whilst the increase in total civilian and defence forces employment in the community was 4 per cent. The Board advised me that my instructions for restraint on establishment increases could benefit the health and soundness of administration in the Commonwealth Service, and it suggested that a limitation should be placed on the increase in Service employment. 
The Public Service Board has now reported to me that in its discussions with departments, it has stressed the Government's policy of restraint but has not endeavoured to impose arbitrary cuts in employment in particular directions. The Board's recommendation, which has been accepted, was that departmental increases in employment, which will be kept to the minimum, should not exceed at 30th June 1971 an overall increase in the Service of 3.4 per cent as compared with numbers employed under the Public Service Act on 30th June 1970. This is a reduction of about 25 per cent on the projected increase in employment disclosed in the Board's earlier survey; or put another way, the Board's original projection was that the Service would grow by 10,534 in 1970-71. This growth has been cut by 2,735. _ 
The Commonwealth has, I believe, moved quickly and firmly in the area available to it. It is necessary to do so. For as we see it, the best interests of the community require that inflation shall be overcome, and one of the first steps to this end must be action to restrain our own expenditures. I present the following paper: 
Reductions in Commonwealth Government Expenditure - Ministerial Statement, 16 February 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
International Conferences held in Australia between 1st July J969 and 30th June 1970 which have received support from the Commonwealth Government are listed in the table hereunder. The list has been compiled from information provided by the relevant Ministers. 
As previously, the table includes conferences which might broadly be described as inter-governmental' and 'non-governmental' (i.e. sponsored by private organisations). The inter-governmental conferences, which for the purposes of this answer include conferences of an official nature such as those associated with United Nations bodies and the Inter-Parliamentary Union, are marked by an asterisk. Conferences and working groups relating to inter-Service cooperation -e.g. pursuant to the American, British, Canadian and Australian Armies Standardisation Agreement - have not been included. For these, the Departments concerned have continuing secretariats as part of their normal functions. 
The table includes the cost of support by the Commonwealth. Wilh regard to non-governmental conferences, where support in addition to a financial contribution has been provided, the form of support is shown. With regard to intergovernmenmi conferences the host facilities appropriate to the conference have been provided. These facilities vary from conference to conference and may include such items as conference accommodation, departmental administrative services, including secretarial services, transport and entertainment. 
The answer to 'he honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
If photographs  are  known to the prosecutor and in the possession  of  the Commonwealth and are relevant they are produced to the Court on the hearing  of  the charge. Also if a defendant has reason to believe any person is in possession of photographs which may be relevant tn his case, court procedures, provide for the issue and service of a subpoena requiring the production of the photographs in evidence. 
Joint Parliamentary Standing Committee on Broadcasting (Question No. 1598) 
I have been advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attention at departmental level to the question of the Commonwealth's powers in relation to third party insurance referred to in answer to the honourable member's question no. 679 (Hansard 1.10, 18th August 1970), related to particular proposals for a scheme of uniform motor vehicle insurance which had been put forward by  Mr Power.  My reply to  Mr Power  dated 27th February 1970 commented as follows: 
Your proposals raise issues which have extensive implications for many areas of Government activity, and while the Commonwealth Parliament possesses limited legislative powers in relation to some of the fields involved, it is the prerogative of the State Governments lo lake all the necessary action within their own boundaries. In particular, only a State Government would have the power to alter the "rule of fault"' liability as it applies at present within the State'. 
and (3) These questions raise much the same issues as were raised by  Mr Power.  They go beyond the question of uniform legislation based on existing principles into the question of uniform legislation based on a different concept of liability than applies at present. As indicated in my reply to the honourable member's question No. 679, the present State laws have a large measure of uniformity and reciprocity. As indicated in my reply to part (1) above, the question of malting a basic change in the concept of liability applicable within a State falls within the legislative competence of that State. 
Yes. 
lt is the usual practice for inquiries instituted by the Commonwealth to take into account the views of all interested parties. 
Television: Subliminal Perception  (Question Noi 1682) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there have been no communications between the Commonwealth and the States for the particular purpose described in the question. I am further advised by the AttorneyGeneral that his predecessor informed the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General ut its meeting on 31st October 1968 of the specific action to be taken by the Commonwealth' oil this matter. Any complementary or related action by the States is for Stale governments to decide upon. 
Conference on Northern Development (Question No. 1816) 
The answer to'  the honourable  member's question is as follow: 
The Commission' commenced its formal inquiry into the application  by  South Australia at a hearing  in  Canberra on  3rd  August 1970. 
The Commission's  recommendation that an advance grant of $5m  be- -paid in  1970-71 was conveyed to the Governor-General by the  Chairman  of  the  Commission on 10th August 1970. The Commission reported on the application  on 1st October 1970. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the. answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Tabic 1 below shows the number of persons employed in the Commonwealth Public Service in each year since 1950. 
Direct comparisons over time to measure the growth rates of individual departments are vitiated by changes in the structures and functions of particular departments. Table 2 below shows the growth and percentage increase in departments existing in both 1950 and 1970. Also shown are the staff numbers in June 1950 in departments abolished since that date and staff numbers in June 1970 for departments- which have been created since 1950. 
I am informed by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Allowances in the Public Service Regulations are reviewed from time to time and adjusted as circumstances require. The allowance referred to in part (1) of this question is of long standing, lt was the subject of a claim before the Public Service Arbitrator in 1966 when the Postmasters' 
Association filed an application to vary the allowance from $48 a year to $.400 a year. Postmasters are the only class of public servants to whom such an allowance is paid. Whilst the Public Service Board and the Postmaster-General's Department did not seek the withdrawal of the allowance, having regard to ils long existence, they opposed the claim on the ground that there was no reason to distinguish in this respect postmasters from other officers of the Service. As one reason for dismissing the claim the Arbitrator considered that there was no justification for officers who were not' provided with official quarters to bc placed on parity .wilh those who happened to occupy official quarters at rentals which may be lower than that required for private quarters. . . 
Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station  (Question Nu. 1926)  Mr Jacobi  asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide details of specifications required of all tenders for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay relating to: 
radionuclide emissions for airborne effluents in terms of (i) gross bela values, 
levels of individual radionuclides and 
time  of  storage ot off-gases required before release lo the atmosphere: and 
radionuclide emissions tor waterborne effluents in terms of  (i)  radionuclide  levels  in cooling water and (ii) radionuclide levels in high conductivity liquid wastes and laundry wastes,  in  terms of gross beta values and levels of individual radionuclides. (2) Is he able to state the relationship oi these radionuclide emission standards to (a) International Atomic Energy standards, (b) U,1it ed States Atomic Energy Commission standards, io) standards specified by the State of Minnesota and (d) standards specified by the Stale of Maryland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: . 
2nd September 1970 
an acknowledgement was sent on 1 5th September 1970. 
Iron, Steel and Zinc: Exports to Mainland China  (Question No. 1975)  Mr Whitiam  asked the Minister  for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many ions of (a) iron. (b) steel and (c) zinc were exported to Mainland China in the last 5 financial years'? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has made no decision yet on the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. Air pollution is only one facet of the problems of the total environment and departments with an active interest in environmental problems are studying the reports of the Parliamentary Select Committees on Air Pollution, Water Pollution and Aircraft Noise, with a view to preparing recommendations to the Government. 
While my attention has been drawn to the recent occurrences of high levels of air pollution in Tokyo and New York, the Government has not specifically considered these particular events. I would point out to the honourable member that the legislative and administrative provisions for air quality control rest at present wilh the individual States. 
The interrelationships between atmospheric pollution and ecological balance are complex and incompletely understood at the present time. Promotion of public understanding of these matters will call for educational programmes that would largely be the responsibility of State Governments to conduct. 
3.330. 
I am informed that demand for the report has necessitated 3 separate printings and that copies of the third print were dispatched from the Government Printer to the Australian Government Publishing Service Bookshops on 29th September 1970 and that copies were available for public purchase at the time of the honourable member's question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
While it would nol be appropriate for me to reply on behalf of Slate and local government authorities, who are responsible for their respective State and municipal public libraries, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided such information as is available on public libraries in the Commonwealth Territories. 
The figures in Table 1 refer mainly lo Commonwealth expenditure on the National Library of Australia which conducts the Canberra public library service and assists with the provision of similar services in other Commonwealth Territories. Figures prior to 1962-63 are not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  :(l).Yes.  f2)  Yes. 
Yes. When wages increase faster than productivity the effect is to increase prices rather than real wages and this is not .in the best interests of Australia. 
Estimates of national productivity (i.e. gross national product at constant prices per person at work) are prepared by the Treasury ou the basis of national accounts, labour force and census data published by the Commonwealth Statistician and are presented by Commonwealth Counsel to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the course of hearings in national wage cases. See, for example, pages 19 to 21 of the Commonwealth's submission in the 1968 national wage case, pages 48' to 49 qf the Commonwealth's submission in the 1969 national wage case and the Commonwealth's submission on pages 541 to 561 of the transcript of the 1970 case. 
Australian Economy  (Question .Vo.  2012) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his statement la Parliament during the debate on the Appropriation Bill on 1st October the Minister for Labour and National Service was referring to the difficulties of breaking up national productivity trends into their constituent industry elements. This is because of problems of consistency and comparability between the data used to estimate output and those used to estimate labour input. The Minister was also referring to the fact that productivity movements can only be measured in retrospect. However, these difficulties are not greatly relevant when considering overall economic capacity for national wage purposes. 
Yes. 
See the answer to part 4 of Question No. 2011. 
 I have been advised by the Minister for Immigration that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
6th August 1969 and 16th September 1970. 
The New Zealand Government, as indicated by the Acting Prime Minister of New Zealand, is seeking uniformity of treatment for all New Zealand citizens who wish to enter Australia. 
The New Zealand Government has been asked to provide further information to enable proposals lo be further examined. 
Papua and New Guinea: Localisation  at  Professions  (Question No. 2025) 
The answer to the honourable member's question, based on advice from Ministers, is as follows: 
Since 17th August 1965 employees ot the Commonwealth and its statutory authorities have made the following official visits to mainland China: 

 Mr L. H. Dorman. O.B.E., General Manager of the Australian Wheat Board. 
January-February 1968 
August 1968 

 Dr A. R. Callaghan, C.M.G.,  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board August 1968 

 Mr J. H. Williams, Assistant General Manager of the Australian Wheat Board 
January 1969 
November-December 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A report has been completed on the New South Wales study of the costs involved for firms and individuals in locating in various areas. This report was publicly released in May this year under the title 'Report on Industry Location Survey'. 
The forward estimates part of the New South Wales study on comparative costs of providing public services in various locations has been completed. The New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development has advised, however, that the report on the study on public costs, which was carried out under its auspices, will be confined to the forward estimates part of the study since, as a result of technical difficulties, the Department has found that few valid conclusions could be drawn from the historical costs part which was completed some time ago. 
The study of the estimated cost of water in the Greater Sydney region to the year 2001 has been completed. 
Detailed work has continued on the Victorian Study on comparative (historical) costs of providing public services in various locations and on .the traffic congestion costs study. 
Papua and New Guinea: Indigines on Appeal Bodies (Question No.  2090)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
In which instances do indigenes sit on the boards, tribunals, committees and courts to which appeals lie from the decisions of departments and instrumentalities in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of officers sent overseas at Commonwealth expense for training under the Commonwealth Public Service Post-graduate Scholarship Scheme and similar schemes operated by the Public Service Board in each of the last 5 years is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2nd October 1970. 
An acknowledgement was sent on 12th October .1970. 
Sec (3) above. 
As soon as possible. 
Papua and New Guinea: Ordinances  (Question No. 2157)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What ordinances have been passed by the present House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
In respect of each ordinance, on what date (a) did the House pass it, (b) did th: Administrator assent or withhold assent to it, or reserve it for the Governor-General's pleasure, (c) did the Governor-General disallow it or pail ot it, or assent or withhold assent to it or part of it or return it to the Administrator with amendments that he recommends and (d) did the Minister table it or table reasons for withholding assent or reasons tor disallowance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) On 7th August 1970 I received a letter from the Federal Secretary of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations requesting that I receive a deputation to discuss a document, enclosed with the Federal Secretary's letter, which set out in considerable detail the views of the Council on the effects it saw arising from provisions in the Public Service Regulations and the Crimes Act 1914-1966 relating to the disclosure of official information and Public Service Regulation 34 (b) relating to public comment by public servants. 
This document had been sent to the Public Service Board by the Council on 2,5th March 1970 and discussed at a meeting between the Board and the Council on 1st April 1970. I have been advised by the Board that the meeting concluded with the deputation from the Council undertaking  to  provide for the Board's consideration additional material on certain aspects relating to regulation 34 (b). Although that material has yet to be received, the Board has advised me that it is continuing its examination of those aspects of the Council's submission which relate lo the Public Service Regulations. 
The Council's submission raised questions about the availability of information in particular areas and 1 have asked for a report on these questions as well as on the rest of the Council's submission. 1 have been advised that all the information necessary for this report has not as yet been collected, but as soon as I have the results of these inquiries and advice from the Public Service Board on the results of its examination, I will consider the question of receiving a deputation from the Council. Once a decision has been reached the Council will be informed. 
Atomic Energy (Question No 2171) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen a copy of a press report of 14th October 1968 concerning an agreement to keep the Citroen company of France under national control. 
The Government's policy with regard to foreign takeovers of Austraiian companies was explained in the course of the statement 1 made in the Mouse on 16th September 1969 on overseas investment in Australia. In that statement 1 said that, whilst our general experience over the years has shown that almost all overseas investment in Australia accords with our country's interests, it has also shown that there remains a need for the Government to be ready to guard against the transfer from Australian control of established companies in particular areas of activity. 1 went on to say that, although we expect the need to arise only on rare occasions, as a Government we reserve the right to do all in our power to prevent particular takeovers when, in the circumstances of the case, we would consider it to be bad in the national interest. 
The Government's policy continues to be as explained in the abovementioned statement. 
The honourable member will also be aware that to assist in retaining and expanding Australian ownership of industry and resources, the Government recently established the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Commonwealth Employment Service  (Question No. 223S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As expressed, the honourable member's question covers a wide field. For example, inquiries may be made of persons who make applications for social service benefits or in connection with the requirement that wireless and television receivers be licenced, and so on. lt would clearly involve very substantial time and expense to research and assemble the data on this basis and ( suggest therefore that the honourable member might reconsider the terms of his question, in the meantime, I 'refer the honourable member to my answers lo Question No. 1 101 which appeared on page 1961 of Hansard of 1st October 1970, and Question No. 62 which appeared on page 607 of Hansard of 27th August 1968. 
The statement made last night was necessarily brief since it was confined to a statement which had been foreshadowed as one relating to cuts in Commonwealth Government expenditure. I believe it covered that quite satisfactorily. The answer to the second part of the honourable member's question is that we do not propose to introduce a supplementary Budget. 
A rise in the consumer price index, which is the bench mark which has always been taken in these matters, does indicate, as it has indicated in past years, that there has been a reduction in the buying power of pensions since the last rise. The last rise in the last Budget was sufficient to bring the buying power of the pension back into line with what it was the year before that, this taking place after 2 Budgets in which the buying power of the pension had been considerably raised in a period of time by, I believe, more than it has ever been raised before in a similar period of time. 
Definitely not. I will give no such assurance whatsoever. When we met at the Premiers' Conference before we sat around in a situation where it was perfectly clear that one of the causes of pressure in the economy was the demand by governments for building construction. It is quite clear, and I believe it has been made clear by me to the nation, that one of the matters that needs to be done is for governments not to engage so heavily io building construction in an endeavour to be sure that the price of building construction does not rise to a point where it would be half as much again as it is now. Of course there is a necessity for governments when they are not going to have all the money they want - and no government ever does - in circumstances such as ours to endeavour to see that the public demand for construction particularly is not increased. This I believe to be in the interests of Australia. So I repeat what I said at the beginning: I will give no such assurance whatever. 
The proposals of the consortium to which the honourable member refers would not require any alteration whatsoever of the ordinance to which the honourable member refers because it would not result in the ownership of Queensland Mines shares passing to the consortium. 
I did not see the actual statement to which the honourable member refers. I can only say that most of the action which requires to be taken in this field is action which the States can take Indeed,I think that the Government of New South Wales and the Government of Victoria have started and really begun a course designed to combat the evils of pollution. 
The Commonwealth Government itself, I think it will be recognised, has played a not inconsiderable part in trying to make sure by a proper inquiry that the Barrier Reef will not be subject to pollution as a result of drilling in that area. This is an example of the kind for which the honourable member asked. We stated in our last policy speech that we proposed to set up an Office of the Environment and would write to all States in an endeavour to set up a council to advise the States and the Commonwealth of the sort of action that could be taken throughout Australia. We have written to the Stales. Four of them have replied. We are waiting for replies from the other two. 
The Board had not made suggestions to me previously on such increases. On the other hand, beforeI left for the Singapore conference I got in touch with the Board and required it to exercise restraint, as I have publicly stated previously. As a result of my communications with the Board, the Board did advise me in the words which I used in this House on Tuesday night. 
 Mr Speaker,  the amendment to the motion which the House is now discussing reads:   . . this House has no confidence in the Government because of ils failure to report to the 
House on the details and purposes of its monetary, fiscal, constitutional and industrial policies for curbing inflation. 
Well, let us examine this amendment,  Mr Speaker.  Let us examine it a little closely. Firstly, we are criticised for not telling the House the details of the monetary policies that we propose to adopt. But on 29th January, I spoke to the people of Australia and, for reasons publicly given then, I stated: 
We do not believe that the present situation requires a lift in interest rates already high, and we would prefer to look forward to a future time - necessarily indefinite - when other measures we take might permit a reduction in such interest rates. 
Are we really expected to come to the House to explain the details and purposes of monetary action which we have clearly stated we are not going to take and we do not believe it wise to take? 
Similarly, I informed the nation that we did not think the present situation calls for a rise in taxation, either direct or indirect. The reason for that is that the rale of growth in consumer spending is not growing significantly as yet. I pointed out publicly that to levy either indirect or direct taxation at this time would be to seek to damp down demand in an area where demand is not now excessive and 1 therefore rejected fiscal measures in speaking to the nation. Should we really have come to the Parliament to report on the details and purposes of fiscal action which at this time we have said we will not take? Yet, this is what this amendment to the motion suggests we should have done. 
Constitutional action may or may not be necessary as regards the Trade Practices Act. In spite of what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, he does not know that we do not have the full powers required constitutionally in this field. I do not know and he does not know the extent of the constitutional powers we now have and we will not know until after the High Court's decision on the case before it. Are we supposed to come to the House and discuss the constitutional actions required when nobody at this moment knows what the present constitutional position is and, therefore, whether any constitutional action is required? Is it seriously put forward? 
I think we can dismiss this amendment in the way in which it is put and consider instead the important matter of our present economic situation, the causes of it and the cures for it - in other words, consider the economic situation which I had thought was going to be the subject of the Leader of the Opposition's speech but which in fact was not the subject of his speech at all. Our assessment is that underlying inflation is higher than it should comfortably be, but we also believe, as I have told Australians, that too much can be made of the increase of 1.9 per cent during the last 3 months of 1970. 
I was told by the Leader of the Opposition that 1 had agreed that half of this rise of 1.9 per cent was due to Government actions. I have never agreed to that. It is a typical mis-statement. Somewhere between 7 per cent and .8 per cent of the rise was due partly to increased indirect taxes - taxes not levied on essentials but on those luxuries which the Opposition tells us it would restrict - and partly on increased charges made by, for example, the Post Office. Why were there increased charges made? They were made because of the inexorable results of increased wages awards for Post Office employees and, indeed, of increased costs for the materials used by the Post Office, again largely because of increased wages pushing up the costs of those materials. 
Having said that, even so and discarding that effect on the consumer price index, the rise remained uncomfortably high at 1.1 per cent or something of that kind, lt was worrying. But on top of that the real danger of inflation in the future as we saw it came from the recent 6 per cent increase of the Arbitration Commission and from the flow on results which that will undoubtedly engender. The Leader of the Opposition contests this. 
Why will it flow on? It is because it will be carried not only across the spectrum of wages and salaries but into such matters as overtime, into over award payments. It will be all added into all aspects of wage increases. 
Overtime is not bad; overtime is good. I heard from somewhere a suggestion that I was saying overtime was bad. It is good. But it is not so good if it is so increased in rewards that it results in an inexorable increase in prices, and that is the basis of our case. 
The Leader of the Opposition, and I think the Opposition generally, contest this argument which I am putting. The Leader of the Opposition claims that the danger of inflation stems from the budgetary actions of this Government over the last few years, and this having been put before the House, let us examine it a little more closely. The present Government brought down its first Budget in August 1968. During that financial year, 1968-69, the consumer price index rose by 2.6 per cent over the year before, the smallest rise in 5 years. It would of course be better to have no inflation at all, but a 2.6 per cent rise, the smallest for 5 years, is hardly evidence of inflationary government action; yet the Leader of the Opposition claims it is. In the financial year of the second Budget that this Government brought, down the consumer price index rose by 3.2 per cent, again scarcely evidence of inflationary government action. Indeed, the Government in that year budgeted for and achieved approximately a $500m internal surplus - surely, as all members must admit, not an inflationary but a deflationary action. 
During the first 2 quarters of this financial year, excluding the special factors affecting the December rise, of which I have spoken, the consumer price index was rising at a rate of about 3.4 per cent, but that rate was beginning to accelerate and it indicated a likely rise during the year which would be too high. Was this rise due to Government budgetary action? It has been claimed by the Leader of the Opposition that it was but there was no argument put forward to sustain it. It was merely an ex cathedra statement. Was it due to Government budgetary action and, if so, how? The income tax deductions which we made in accordance with an election promise, partially offset by indirect tax increases, might be argued to have increased personal demand and therefore to have influenced price rises but, as at the end of the year, consumer spending had not risen unduly and was not a significant factor in price rises, and therefore the income tax deductions made cannot be claimed to have been a significant factor in price rises during that period. 
Then was it Government expenditure, expenditure in the public sector? Perhaps it was to some extent. But if the Opposition is to argue that, and that that should not have happened, then their constant calls for more and more money for expending in the government sector on all the heads we hear about every day on which they are demanding more - even on their own argument those suggestions they make must be uattainable. In any case, the level of our effort to help in the provision by the States of schools, hospitals and other public services, great though it was in comparison with any past year, would not have caused the need to combat inflation now unless there were other factors at work, and there were and are other factors at work. The 6 per cent wage and salary rise, to which I have referred, granted by the Arbitration Commission, greater than anybody could reasonably have expected, raised those payments for wages by much more than production was increasing or was expected to increase. 
The effects of this rise, as I pointed out to the House before, will be much greater than resulting merely in a 6 per cent rise in wages. In fact, as a direct and indirect result of this increase, average earnings are expected to rise by  9i  per cent to 10 per cent while productivity is expected to increase by 24- per cent to 3 per cent. Will anyone, even in the ranks of the Opposition, seriously argue that if average wage costs rise by as much as 9 per cent, or 10 per cent per annum and productivity increases only by 2 per cent to 3 per cent per annum it will be possible to avoid a rise in the price of finished goods or buildings or services? If there is anybody in the Opposition from the Leader down who is prepared to get up seriously, as the Leader of the Opposition did, and to say that you can increase wages by 9 per cent or 10 per cent and productivity by only 2 per cent or 3 per cent and not run into increased costs, then he is talking the most arrogant economic nonsense. 
It is true that in certain instances industry can absorb some of those increased costs but only some of them, and on each occasion to a reducing degree, and I believe that most members of the Opposition know this. It remains true that no matter what action a government takes, no matter how severely it taxes or how ruthlessly it cuts government expenditure, it will not be able to beat inflation if wages and salaries rise significantly more quickly than productivity. Demands for over-award payments, for extra holidays, for additional holiday pay, for shorter hours, for all those things which are advocated by the members of the Opposition can be met only in one of two ways. Either the amount of goods and services produced is increased sufficiently to enable those requests and those demands to be met without inflation or the requests are met at the cost of inflation, which ultimately destroys the benefits sought and leaves us all worse off and immediately attacks those in whom the Opposition pretends to have a particular interest - those who have retired on fixed incomes, those who are pensioners, those who are living in rural areas. It immediately attacks those, and that is why we are attacking this problem now and receiving neither constructive criticism nor suggestions of any merit from the Opposition, merely statements that you can allow wages to rise without restriction and not expect costs to rise at all. 
That is the case as we see it. The Leader of the Opposition characterises it as nonsense. He does not argue his case. He has not argued his case. The people will make up their minds on their knowledge and their experience of whether it is nonsense or whether it is not, but 1 shudder at the damage which will be done to Australia and its citizens if they ever have a government which believes that payments of this kind can increase much more greatly than production and that that will have no economic effects on costs and prices and on the wellbeing of Australians generally. We believe the danger caused by recent wage rises can be overcome. (Extension of time granted.) 
I thank the House. We have identified 3 of the areas in which demand has been growing too strongly recently. The field of Government expenditure is one, and as the country knows we have acted ourselves in this field. We have met with the Premiers and we have indicated that we believe all governments will have to reduce their rate of spending. But let me make it clear that a reduction in the rate of increase of their spending is what is required. The field of private investment in plant and equipment which has been growing by some 20 per cent in the last year compared with the year before is another in which demand is too strong. We have a Bill before the House on this. Should we have come and made some statements about the Bill before it was introduced for debate in the House? Is this what is suggested? Apparently it is, but can there be a more stupid suggestion? 
The field of non-dwelling construction is another area in which demand has been rising too quickly and we intend to see that this levels off. But we do not believe that panic rises in taxation such as the Leader of the Opposition inferred should be brought in are necessary to deal with the situation, nor do we think that if they are brought in in the future they will deal completely with the real problem because the real problem, in spite of what we have been told by the Leader of the Opposition, is cost push inflation leading, of course, to demand - but basically the rise of prices, because of the cost increases and because of wages increasing faster than productivity. The biggest single influence now which can prevent inflation is a conscious and firm effort on the part of wage-fixing tribunals of all kinds to see that rises in wages do not outstrip rises in production as they are now doing. 
The second biggest influence in combating inflation would be to see that productivity is increased as a result of all those engaged in various areas of production realising that by increasing productivity they are improving not only their own living standards but also the possible living standards of all Australians. The biggest single boost to real rises in living standards will be an increase in production. If that can be achieved then we can attain the real objective of most Australians and of this Government, and that is to see real buying power increased, flowing from increased real wages: to see continued expansion of industry to provide the employment we all say we want: to enable the building of the schools and hospitals the people want and to know that when plans and estimates are made by governments for such buildings the cost of the finished product will not exceed those estimates. We want the fruits of labour and management - because the fruits come from co-operation of labour ' and management not from just one or the other - tobe shared between labour and management and the community through governments in a real way. We want a community which can provide for its needs without self-defeating and crippling taxation and without being misled by money wages rising which do not in fact mean real wages rising. 
That is our objective and I believe that this debate has shown that the approach of the Opposition will defeat the attaining of those objectives but that given restraint in wages, increased production and proper sharing of that increased production we will attain those ends, and we will attain them without that overall, constant detailed planning of every section of the community which the Leader of the Opposition asked us to accept. We will see in this country what we were told by the Leader of the Opposition we see abroad as a result of this Government having been in office, and that is a Government which is not subject to the gnomes of Zurich, which has strong overseas reserves, which has been enabled, through good management there, to raise Australia's name high among the nations of the world and which, given responsible government and opposition here, will inside this country do the same. 
Yes, I can confirm that  Sir Daryl  Lindsay has resigned and that the reason for his resignation was that his recommendations for the appointment of a Director were not accepted. I do not think that I should discuss in any way the persons recommended for that position, but I think it is fair to say that there was by no means unanimity in the Interim Council on the first recommendations made. I think that the Australian National Gallery should stand for generations here in the national capital as an example, if we can make it so, of the finest design possible and I believe that, to attain that end, we should call on international knowledge of gallery design and seek advice from those who have before this time designed galleries in other parts of the world. I cannot tell the Leader of the Opposition when a decision on this matter will be made, but I can inform him that at the time I answered the question which was asked of me previously the Interim Council was in consultation and in discussion a very distinguished international designer of art galleries who, for reasons which again I will not go into at this stage, decided that he would not accept the position. I hope he will change his mind. 
 I do not understand why the honourable member should say that it is extraordinary that Australia was not consulted about a military operation in Laos in which Australian troops were not involved. I fail to see entirely why Australia should be consulted before a military operation of that kind is undertaken. I have no first-hand knowledge of whether the statement made by  President  Nixon yesterday was cleared - if that is what the honourable member suggests - with the Minister for Foreign Affairs or sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was not sent to me. I do not see any reason again why it should have been. 
The answer is that, to the best of my knowledge and information, they have never operated outside. I understand that the directive for Australian forces in Vietnam is that they should not operate outside the borders of Vietnam. This is the Defence directive. 
I think the honourable member will realise that the method of carrying out a reduction in the growth of the Public Service is one for the Public Service Board and the departments concerned. If he wishes. I will endeavour to gel: from the Public Service Board an answer to his questions so far as they can be answered, but this would be something that 1 would regard as being within the responsibility of the Board itself and the departments with which it deals. 
1 have had presented to me a document which provides more of an answer to the question asked of me by the honourable member for Newcastle. It is a circular letter from the Commonwealth Public Service Board to Commonwealth Public Service inspectors. It reads: 
You already have  a  copy of my circular letter to Permanent Heads elated 1 5th January 1971 in which I informed  them  of the Government's policy regarding restraint in the Commonwealth Service. 
Pending consideration by the Board of the various measures it .should take .n order to support the Government's policy, flense do not issue any further offers of appointment to school leaver applicants for appointment to positions of Clerk Class 1 in the Third Division. We shall be gelling in touch with you regarding the overall situation. 
I thought I might add that as the answer to the question.. . 
I do not know on what basis the Leader of the Opposition claims, as he apparently does, that the voting of 18, 19 and 20 year olds in Western Australia are able to be at this stage dissected. But T can give him an undertaking that, when the Government decides to present to this House matters of policy concerning this matter, he will be informed, because he will be informed shortly before they are presented to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 have received and sent letters to the Premier of South Australia on ' all these subjects, and on others, bin 1 regret that it is considered too much of an administrative burden to adopt the practice of supplying information which might bc sought on any matter which was the subject of correspondence with any Premiers. 
I do not think that this calls for a statement in the House because the matters raised by the honourable member can be quite shortly answered now. The Reserve Bank has not placed any money into the attempts to see that the shares in companies which Mineral Securities Australia Ltd held and had pledged as collateral are not subjected to being sold at below value on the stock exchange to the detriment of the small shareholders in those companies. Indeed, there is no public money involved in this arrangement unless the honourable member cares to take the view that the money of the Austraiian Industry Development Corporation is public money; which I do not.. 
The proposition that is put forward is, I think, well known, and that is that since Minsec did not of itself own assets - all those assets being pledged, the assets being shares in various other companies - it was therefore suggested that a consortium should advance a loan to the liquidator appointed to Minsec, the liquidator being able to use that loan to free Minsec's assets which were held as security by other persons, the liquidator then being able to dispose of those shares in the interests of those for whom he was appointed as liquidator. At the end of that period of time, should this eventuate - and it is not yet sure it will - the liquidator would repay the consortium which had lent the money to the liquidator and the members of the consortium would therefore have no rights or titles to any of the shares in any of the companies which Minsec held. Consequently, there cannot be any diminution of Australian ownership of mineral resources held in the companies concerned unless, quite distinct from the arrangements of which we are talking, in normal general stock exchange trading some shares were bought, as they might well be, in the normal way by overseas buyers. But the actual arrangements of the people who are providing money for a consortium to lend money to the liquidator are that they are not to receive right or title to the shares which Minsec owns in other companies. I think that answers the honourable member's question. 
 Answering the questions not necessarily seriatim, yes, I gathered together a number of people concerned on stock exchanges, in the banks and amongst the financial and business world generally in this matter to express to them that the Government was concerned that a possible acceleration, a possible domino effect, should not be felt throughout Australian finances and on the stock exchanges, and that the overseas confidence in Australian investment should be as little as possible damaged. The Australian Industry Development Corporation was represented there, amongst a number of other significant companies, by  Sir Alan  Westerman. T think it is well known that the consortium concerned with this matter has already started discussions and it is led, as perhaps the honourable member may know, by  Sir Robert  Norman, the Governor of the Bank of New South Wales who has indeed made statements on this matter. May I conclude by saying this.  Mr Speaker:  One of the real objectives in this field was to see that, as far as possible, shares in companies which were pledged by Mineral Securities Australia Ltd as collateral for loans were not thrown on the market and sold at prices lower than would normally be the case. Surely this must be conceded to be an action to protect the small shareholders in those companies who otherwise might have seen a loss which, I believe, they will not now have to sustain. 
The responsible Ministers have supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd was formed under an agreement made between the Commonwealth of Australia and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd (late Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd), of London, on 14th May 1920. This agreement was ratified by the Oil Agreement Act No. 13 of 1920, which was assented to on 29th May. 1920. (b) 26lh September 1952. 
The Hughes Ministry. 
Net profits (after taxation) shown in published accounts total $5,394,872 lo 30lh June 1952. 
Yes. 
The Commonwealths interest in the Company was disposed of to Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd for $13 a share, the total purchase price being $5,525,013. The cost of these shares to the Commonwealth was $850,002. By 1952 establishment of other oil refineries in Australia was completed or contemplated by several of the major oil companies. Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd planned to erect a large refiner) at Kwinana in Western Australia after which the obsolete refinery being operated by Commonwealth Oil refineries Ltd at Laverton, Victoria, was to be closed. Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd would then have become merely the distributing agent for petroleum products of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. 
Ltd. Further, Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd proposed that the capital of Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd be raised in order to expand  that company's facilities for the distribution of  petroleum products. Legal advice was received to the effect that it was not within the constitutional power of the Commonwealth to provide further funds for this purpose. 
The objectives of Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd as stated in the 'Oil Agreement Act 1920' were: 
the creation and development in Australia of the industry of refining mineral oil; 
the erection, equipment and operation of a modern refinery or refineries in Australia for refining mineral oil; 
the sale and disposal of the products of refining mineral oil; 
such other objects necessary or incidental to or expedient for the aforesaid objects as shall be approved by the Commonwealth and the Oil Company and set forth in the Articles of Association. 
Price control on motor spirit, imposed by the Commonwealth Government in 1940 as a wartime measure, was maintained from 1945 to 1954 (at first by the Commonwealth and later by State Governments) with uniform prices and margins in all State capital cities. 
In December 1954, price control on motor spirit was lifted in all States except South Australia and Queensland. after which time prices varied from Stale to State. 
Variations in retail prices for -standard grade motor spirit are shown in the following table: 
I would regard this as a matter for the Public Service Board. I will endeavour to find out from the Board what the position is, but I would not seek to interfere in its arrangements for the running of the Public Service. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Adoption of the honourable member's suggestion is not considered to be practicable. 
The Commonwealth can and in appropriate cases has used its jurisdiction over exports to achieve national ends. 
 The answer to the honourable member s question is as follows: 
The Commonweatlh, makes an annual grant of $5,000 io the Australian Council of National Trusts. The Commonwealth has also granted income tax and estate duty concessions on gifts and bequests to the Trusts and income tax concessions on donations to appeals by the Trusts which result in the Commonwealth forgoing revenue it would otherwise collect equal to approximately one-third of the sum contributed to an appeal. It would be impracticable however to attempt to calculate the value of this indirect assistance to the Trusts through taxation concessions. 
Details of assistance provided to the Trusts by each State should be obtained from the respective State Governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been consultations between representatives of the Commonwealth and all States and details of the legislation which I foreshadowed in my statement of 8th September 1970 will be made known at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is proposed to issue a catalogue but I am informed it will necessarily be a considerable lime in preparation. 
Common wealth Insurance Legislation  (Question No. 2305) 
The answer to the last part of the question is: 'No, 1 will not'. I have noticed that certain oil companies have been complaining about the pricing policies for Australian crude oil. The complaint has largely been that the price set by the Australian Government is too low - not that it is too high - and consequently that companies which may find fields with a small flow of oil or fields which are far from a port would not be encouraged to go ahead because the price set was too low. This is what is being complained about. In regard to Esso-BHP the House will remember that there was an arrangement at a fixed price for 5 years settled between the Government and Esso-BHP for crude oil from Bass Strait. The price was set at import parity, and if I set aside conditions about quality differentials, the import parity price set for 5 years was $A1.89 per barrel. The overseas price at present at import parity is something like 42c or 43c per barrel higher than the price which was arranged. The overseas price is under the agreement recently made with the oil producing countries to increase year by year and consequently will be dearer and dearer each year as compared with the import parity price for Australian oil. 
I scarcely think that this can be presented as providing a bad deal for the Government or the Australian motorist in securing supplies of Australian oil. I would not be able with certainty to say by how much a gallon of petrol from an Australian barrel of oil would be cheaper than a gallon of petrol from a barrel of overseas oil, but it would certainly be quite considerable, and we have the knowledge that this is fixed. This is not going to be subject to escalation, whereas overseas prices are. Dealing with another part of the honourable member's question, I am not clear - no doubt he is - as to the precise profits made by BHP from its oilfields, but I believe that they would have to be related to the immense amount of capital which was expended in discovering that oil and the funds employed in the business. Surely what is really important is the end result, that we in Australia and the Australian motorists are getting oil far cheaper than could have been got in any other way. 
I cannot pretend to be able to remember the whole' sequence of questions which were' put into that one compendious question. But' the increase in the price of steel iti 1970 to which the honourable member referred can scarcely have been an inordinate increase because since that time BHP- has been earning on the shareholders' funds employed, as 1 understand it. something of the order of  6i  per cent or  6i  per cent. 
The honourable member must surely know by this time that asking questions about what policies will be on financial matters is not a course which will lead to any answers from a government. In reply to the first part of his question, I am not aware - 1 take it he has probably looked it up so perhaps he is right - of the actual percentage of bonus shares. Bonus shares, I take it. are from retained profits which, in turn, flow from undistributed dividends to investors and therefore reduce the dividends. But what is surely significant in this matter, and surely of the most significance, is the statement which was made by the  Chairman  of the Company that he was not now proposing to increase the price of steel although he foreshadowed that he might be forced to do so unless there was an increase in productivity. Not only in this Company but also in all fields of industry, there can be few who would deny that if we are to get the full benefit - and I mean that if the people of Australia are to get the full benefit - of increased expansion, of increased investment and of better methods of making materials, then we will only get that if that is utilised to the full and if it is utilised to the full that must be a great blow against any necessity to increase prices. If it is utilised to the full and if wildcat strikes and other matters do not take place, then we can get the proper benefit which we really want. 
As I announced previously, last year to my understanding showed that there was a profit earned by the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd of 6.25 per cent or 6.2 per cent on shareholders' funds. As I indicated at that time- 
The question asked by the honourable member is based on a complete misconception. What he referred to as a 30 per cent profit was a profit earned before tax, not after tax. The $80m to which he refers therefore would result in something like $40m being that bonus to the people which he said he wanted to see. It is quite useless to refer to a profit before tax, half of which goes immediately to the Australian people, and try to pretend that that is a profit on shareholders' funds. 
The honourable member seemed to be very mixed up in the initial part of his question as to whether he was talking about 1,000 shares or $1,000. He mentioned both of them. 
It makes a difference whether it is 1,000 shares or $1,000. There has been no indication of what the honourable member has in mind as to the extra amounts which would have had to be paid in during the 2 decades of which he speaks. I do not propose to turn myself or the Government into a research department on his behalf. If he wants to certify these matters himself he can look them up. They would be a matter of public knowledge. 
I am not aware of the position regarding the forms to which the honourable member refers, or what would be involved if they were not used. Neither am I clear as to what the reason for that particular question is. I do know that on a previous occasion the Leader of the Opposition has objected to some questions not being placed on the census forms and I can only repeat what was then said, and which 1 believe to be true, that there ought to be a limit to a government's right to extract private information from citizens by law, under threat of penalty, and that there is a need to draw a very fine line between information which would be of use and information- 
I think honourable members opposite do not like the answer. There is a need to draw a fine line between information which would be of use and information which could well be categorised as prying into the private affairs of the citizens of Australia. . 
I am well aware of the costs of pollution as set out in the Senate paper. I would remind the Leader of the Opposition that I indicated that we were going to set up an Office of the Environment to advise the Commonwealth on matters under its control, and that we were also going to seek to set up a council of representatives of . the Commonwealth and the States to deal with matters which, because of their very nature, tend to transcend State boundaries. 
It is quite true that we are not proposing to proceed at this time with the appointments to the Office of the Environment, which was to have advised us. I doubt very much whether the delay incurred in this will greatly increase pollution or have any really deleterious effect. As I have pointed out to this House previously, I have already written to all the Premiers on the other question which we decided, that b, to set up a council, and have received replies from 4 but not yet from the other 2. 
I do not think it is proper or right for me to tell the Leader of the Opposition what State Premiers have or have not answered or when they did or when they did not. But as soon as this has been completed, we will certainly go ahead with it. 
No report from this Committee has at any rate come to me. On the other matters raised by the honourable member, he will no doubt know that there can be very many different approaches as to what is proper decentralisation and what is not. 
I have not yet had time to study the remarks made in the report by  Sir Richard  Kirby but I have had a chance to look at them cursorily and I would be glad to comment on them now in response to the question. But before I do I would point out that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act requires that in the hearing or determining of an industrial dispute or in any other proceedings before the Commission 'the Commission shall act according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case without regard to technicalities and legal forms'. I wish to make it clear that this is, of course, what the Arbitration Commission is required to do and also to make it clear that I and members of my Government will continue to make public announcements on matters which we believe to be of critical importance to the economy, which is a far different thing from making destructive comments. This body is one which through its judgments can give an immense impetus to inflation in this country or can assist in containing inflation. It can damage private businesses. 
It can virtually wreck State budgets and it can to a quite considerable degree negate a government's attempt to manage the economy. In these circumstances,  Mr Speaker,  it is sobering to read that the approach of such a body appears to be so strictly legalistic. We are told that the court can take notice only of evidence which is presented before it in the court. 
Or arguments- apparently it can only take notice of evidence or arguments presented to it in the Commission. It apparently rejects the concept that it can form its own opinion as to what is in the national interest on the basis of what is commonly known. It also appears to reject any concept that it can itself call evidence or argument before the Commission if it wants its mind to be more instructed than by the evidence or arguments put before it. It is sobering also to read that  Sir Richard  Kirby apparently rejects the concept that wage increases should be kept in some kind of equilibrium with increases in productivity, and also says that he has not the slightest idea of how he can go about doing this. I hope that thinking Australians will ponder these approaches to such great national problems and make up their own minds as to whether this approach which seems to pay no regard whatever to the economic effects of determinations on the country is an approach which is or is not responsible and is an approach which is or is not required in the modern context of the economy. 
Before proceeding to the 3 questions which were asked, I should like to comment on the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition that this committee was set up, to quote his own words, 'to consider the question further', that is, the question of the sale of arms by Britain to South Africa. Everybody should be quite clear that this committee was not set up to consider the question of the sale of arms to South Africa by Britain. It was not set up for that purpose and I think that should be made clear, because from the way the Leader of the Opposition spoke one could easily think that he was saying this. In fact, the committee was set up to study the sea routes and possible threats to sea routes in the Indian Ocean. At the time that it was set up the British Prime Minister made it abundantly and unequivocally clear that the setting up of this committee was quite satisfactory to him but that he would be in no way inhibited as to the timing of any action he thought he should take in British interests. There was nobody who could have left that conference under any misapprehension as to this. 
When will the group meet, I was asked. At the moment discussion is going on through the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth as to where and when it will meet. But it appears it will be meeting in London, or that the venue should be London, and initially we at least believe it should be at High Commissioner level. Did we know in advance of a specific announcement by the 
Foreign Secretary in the House of Commons? No, we did not, nor was there any need whatever that we should since it had been made so unequivocally clear to us and to others that Britain was retaining the right to fulfil what she regards as her legal obligations and to take any other action in this matter which she believed to be in her interests. Will we make a statement on the matter? I believe there is no need to make a statement on our position. We agreed to join with a committee, knowing as all other members of the committee knew, the attitude of the British Prime Minister. We are prepared to continue sitting on that committee should all the other members still wish it to go ahead and we retain the same position we have had all through, that this is a matter for Britain's decision in her own interests and what she considers to be her defence and the defence of the Indian Ocean. 
I would not say that I was actively aware or indeed would agree that the first statements made by the honourable member were true but I am aware that the labour situation in Australia is such that any employable person has no need to be out of employment, since at the moment there are so many jobs offering throughout the State. 
I noticed the poll, but the question is clearly a question of policy and, I think, not suitable for answering at question time. 
I have been informed by  Mr Eggleton,  my Press Secretary, that he has received a communication from  Mr Ramsey  which  Mr Ramsey  gives me permission to use. He telephoned  Mr Eggleton  in a great state of emotional upset. I am quoting what  Mr Eggleton  says. 
Apparently just lately. I just got it.  Mr Eggleton  says: 
He says that he lost control of himself in a quite inexcusable way. He apologises most humbly and he realises that his action was very wrong. The reason for his outburst was that he thought you had generalised rather on your own comments to him on the day, while you certainly did quote him quite correctly. What he meant when he made his outburst was that you had been unfair. There was no question of you being a liar. He agrees that he did in fact say: 'Fair enough'. 

 Mr Speaker, as far as I am concerned, that is apology enough for me, and I would suggest that the motion might be withdrawn. 
 Mr Speaker,  I have no objection whatever to the suspension of Standing Orders, though I take it that the suspension of Standing Orders would be such that there would not be just one statement, but at least two. 
I have no objection. 
1 wish to inform the House that the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Malcolm Fraser)  resigned from the Ministry on 8th March. For the time being the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will answer questions on matters relating to the. Defence portfolio and the Postmaster-General will also represent the Minister for. Supply in this chamber. 
I do not disagree with the concepts advanced by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to the proper functions of the Minister for Defence vis-a-vis the Services and the Service Ministers. I do not think that the former Minister for Defence can claim that at any time he was interfered with or in any way obstructed or not supported in carrying out that general concept of the functions of the Ministry of Defence visavis Service functions. Certainly he has not done so now, and certainly I agree with the statements of how the defence Services of Australia should be run. 
I want to say,  Mr Speaker,  that I believe what I am now going to say to be true and essential for any government, and that is that the armed Services of a government have very much expected of them. They are expected to render loya! service unto death. They must retain a standard of discipline more rigid than those of other sections of the community. They ave expected to be at all times subject to the direction of the civil power - completely subject. They are an ann wielded by their commanders but only for purposes decided by the government of the day. They are expected to refrain from any political activity and to make no public comments or statements themselves even in their own defence if they see themselves denigrated in the newspapers. This is their duty in a democracy. This is essential, and an essential duty for them to perform. But in return there is an equal duty on governments. The armed Services must not be' allowed to be denigrated or criticised without proper basis. If that happens the ' Government has a duty to come to their defence and to refute that criticism. If, of course, there is a proper basis for criticism then that should be laid open and corrected. I think this is the only decent and proper way in which a government can act in relation to its own armed forces.  Sir, this  is not, as some newspapers have suggested, taking the side of the generals, lt is protecting the whole of the Army against criticism  when that criticism is undeserved, and T believe there is a duty to do that. 

 Mr Speaker, if I may follow through a sequence of events before coming to some of the remarks  Mr Fraser  subsequently made and which 1 did not know he was going to make, the events of the last week took place, to my recollection this way: A  Mr Baudino  of the 'Daily Telegraph' came to see me last Monday afternoon to tell me of a story he was thinking of publishing. He spoke to me about it. He had shorthand notes. He spoke to me; he did not read the story. Just why he did this I cannot tell, because it is a most unusual thing to have happened, but he did. And the story which he was thinking of publishing made allegations against the Army and, by name, against the- Chief of the General Staff who was, in the article spoken to me and subsequently as written, accused of taking decisions' himself which were against Government policy. The statement he proposed to publish alleged that the Army in Vietnam had carried on its own operations in areas which were not covered by the Cabinet directive. It alleged that the Army had independently decided to cease civic action against known Government policy and it alleged that the Army's behaviour was so unsatisfactory that an organisation had been brought in to spy upon it. These were most serious charges to be published against the military and its commander, for if an Army were to act against its directives, if it were to refuse to implement Government policy, if it needed to be spied on, then the armed forces would have refuted civilian political control and the whole proper relationship between the armed forces and the Government would not have been operating. And, further, the charges by the author of the article were, I believe, falsely placed tn the mouth of  Mr Fraser,  the Minister for Defence. Again a serious allegation. I told  Mr Baudino  that the Army had not acted in the way in which he reported, and I knew it had not acted in the way in which he had reported. For example, I know that when the Army left their province to go to Bien Hoa in the Tet offensive, although that was in the area which their directive covered, yet the Army had rung up the Minister for Defence to say this was going on. They advised it. and the Minister for Defence had rung me up in the middle of the night to check that with me. 
 I am quite unable to remember the dates and months concerned but the answer to the basic requirements of the question is this: I believed that an offer had been made. There is indication that if an offer had not been made, discussions had taken place and I believed that an offer had been made, which was being considered but later was not accepted. I have noticed that  Mr Sweeney  has stated that he had not received an offer and he has now received one. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 1870 (Hansard, page 473). 
The following information has been provided by the relevant Departments as at 19 March 1970:  (1)(a) 176; (b) 124. 
Note (1) The term 'standard daily silting fees' refers to the maximum daily rates approved for payment to part-time members of Boards and  Committees (but see also Note 2). 
The current standard daily sitting fees are: 
Short term Boards - Chairman $45; Members $40. 
Continuing Boards - Chairman $40; Members $35. 
For meetings of less than 3 hours duration - Chairman $25; Members $20. 
Note (2) No fees are paid to any public servants, Service officers or Members of Parliament who are members of the Boards and Committees listed. 
Note (3) This schedule does not contain details of- 
Boards and Committees established under the Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory, theNorthern Territory or the Territory of Papua and New Guinea; 
Boards and Committees established by the Papua and New Guinea Administration; 
Joint Commonwealth/State Boards and Committees; 
Sub-committees and advisory committees that the various Boards and Committees listed may have established by their own authority; and 
Interdepartmental and intradepartmental Boards and Committees of which all the members are Commonwealth public servants and/or members of the armed forces. 
(a), (b) and (c) 
 Mr Speaker,  as honourable members will probably know, there has been a change in the leadership of the Parliamentary Liberal Party since the House met yesterday. In the light of this change I shall be in touch with  His Excellency  the Governor-General to tender my resignation as Prime Minister and to offer him certain advice as to whom he should give the commission to form a new government. In the meantime in these circumstances I suggest that the House should adjourn until next Monday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not believe that the provision of these details would serve any useful purpose; to supply such information would place an unreasonable workload on the Public Service. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the main concern of the Australian Council for the Arts as a Federal body to establish and develop high national standards which will benefit activity in the performing arts throughout Australia, and stimulate interest abroad in Australia's achievements in this field. 
.The Council's funds are allocated on the recommendation of the Council to the Prime Minister. The Council is assisted in this by its various expert advisory committees. 
Applications to the Council should, I think, be regarded as confidential, and although the names of organisations and individuals have been supplied in the past, irrespective of whether or not they . were successful, I do not consider it appropriate to continue te do so. However, I am prepared to supply the numbers of applications received and details in respect of those for whom assistance was approved. There were 285 applications for assistance from the Council in 1968-69 and 413 in 1969-70. 
The Council has provided the following information concerning organisations and individuals who have received support and the amount of the subsidy in each case. 
In respect of the Special Projects Fund only the total allocation has been given: details of the grants made from the Special Projects Fund have been furnished separately in answer to Question No. 1237. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Special Projects Fund was established to provide support for the whole range of activities in the performing arts - principally by fostering experimental and creative work, attracting new and young audiences to the performing arts, underwriting special projects and programmes and encouraging professional standards in the performing arts. 
The Special Projects Fund is administered by the Australian Council on the advice of its Special Projects Committee in accordance with the objectives outlined in (1). 
Requests are considered in relation to the objectives of the Fund as outlined in (1). Proposals must display evidence of adequate budgeting and forward planning for activities which are considered to be of special value. 
The Special Projects Fund was established in the 1968-69 financial year with an allocation of $168,500. $300,000 was provided in the Appropriation Act for special projects in 1969-70. Of this sum $216,500 was allocated for special projects, while the remaining amount of $83,500 was reallocated to regional theatre organisations. An amount of $250,000 has been allocated for 1970-71. 
A total of 403 applications had been received to the end of the 1969-70 financial year. 
Although in answer to 'Senate Question No. 1251 of 19th August 1969 (Hansard, page 119 ff.) a list was furnished containing the names of all applicants for assistance from the Council for the Arts in 1968-69, I do not consider it appropriate or in the best interests of unsuccessful applicants to continue to supply information of this kind. 
A total of 235 applications were approved for the period and a total of 168 applications were rejected. 
(i) 1 am advised by the Council that details of the 1968-69 grants made are as follows: 
The answer tothe honourable member's question is as follows: 
I regret that it is considered too much of an administrative burden and one which would not serve any useful public purpose to continue the practice of supplying information of this kind. 
Commonwealth Office of the Environment and National Advisory Council (Question  No. 2695) 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to make 2 comments on the speech 1 have just heard by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  before 1 proceed to what 1 wish to say to the House. The first comment I wish to make is to refute as quite untrue the statement made by the honourable member that the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  did not consult his Cabinet or his Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on the announcement he made in the House this afternoon. The second comment I wish to make is that 1 believe it is a pity that a debate of this kind, which ought to be concerned with whether a government should be censured for sins of omission or sins of commission, should have been dragged down to such a matter of personalities as it has been by the honourable member for Lang. 
Having said that let me address myself to the motion before us. The motion suggests that the present Governmentshould be censured. There can surely be no honourable member of this House, on either side, who really believes that the Government which has been in office for 5 days could possibly be the proper object of such censure. Nor have any reasons been advanced as to why in the national interest it should be the object of such censure. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested that because there is a new Prime Minister there should be a new election. But any man who can command a majority in the House of Representatives, as the Prime Minister can, is constitutionally and morally entitled to lead the country and would be wrong if he shed that responsibility which he gets as a result of his majority. Suggestions to the contrary are far fetched, and indeed they were advanced by the Leader of the 
Opposition with such a lack of real conviction that they scarcely  merited the detailed and effective rebuttal which they received, but effectively rebutted they were. 
What then were the grounds advanced in support of the motion? In brief they seemed to be that this Government should be censured because of what the previous Government had done or not done. But there was no argued case against what the previous Government had done or not done. The honourable , member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was kind enough to list a number of matters which he said I had done and which he implied, with the support of the Opposition, merited praiseThose matters were the establishment of the Australian Industry Development Corporation; the setting up of guidelines for borrowings by. overseas companies in Australia; the various attempts to preserve as much Australian equity in Australian development as possible. All these were implied to be good and I believe they were. But I have never governed without full and proper Cabinet consultation. It was not me who did these things; it was the Government which did these things. It was the Government which passed this legislation through this House. Yet it is suggested that these matters, which have been praised so highly by the Opposition, should now be grounds for a censure. 
I do not wish to spend too much time on the achievements of the previous Government nor would I mention them at all if it were not that they seem to be the real basis of this motion. There are too many achievements on the record to mention them all. But we did inject, amongst many other things, new vigour and new hope into the performing arts in Australia. We did take steps towards establishing our own film and television industry in Australia. We did bring in a tapered means test to the great benefit of many pensioners. We did introduce a health scheme which has removed the fear of expensive operations for Australians. We did at least ensure that the danger of pollution through drilling on the Great Barrier Reef were publicly and properly examined. We did take sensible and progressive steps towards the orderly handing over of responsibility in New 
Guinea. We did make financial arrangements with the States which gave them record amounts of revenue. We did increase greatly the expenditure on defence. We did reduce income tax as we promised. 
The record stands. It is not one which deserves censure, arid indeed little attempt in this debate has been made to show that it does deserve censure. But perhaps the censure is based on other grounds. Perhaps it is based on criticisms made of me in this House last week. The Leader of the Opposition in his speech hinted at this. Of that criticism I say only this: I was charged by innuendo with supporting the Chief of the General Staff personally against the former Minister for Defence. No government and no man merits censure for assuring the Chief of an armed Service that if false charges against that Service appear in print they will be denied. That is not to be confused with supporting a Service Chief against a Minister for Defence on matters of policy. It is not to be confused with suppressing true accusations. That is quite different. That would be wrong. This 1 have never done nor indeed have 1 been accused of doing it. 1 have been charged with acting irregularly in the matter of an Order in Council permitting the Pacific Islands Regiment to be called out to reinforce the police in New Guinea if required. There was no irregularity in the signing of that Order in Council to permit the calling out of the PIR if it was heeded. I believe that in the light of the great concern of the Administrator of Papua and New Guinea and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  I did discuss and take a different point of view to that taken by the former Minister for Defence on the urgency of that matter. But I did have 2 Ministers who were greatly concerned with what was happening in that country. I did not relish the thought of possibly having to stand up in this House and say: 'There has been a riot out of control in Rabaul and many people have been killed. We did know about it but we delayed while we went through machinery'. In spite of that we did finally go through the course which was discussed and was decided. I think impulsively. I gather, refusing to allow Cabinet to discuss whether, that Order in Council be revoked. I cannot go as deeply into this as I would like because of the inhibitions placed on me but I can say that the matter was brought to Cabinet, was discussed and was decided. I think I should add that following that Cabinet consideration interdepartmental discussions between the departments concerned went on, as they had before, concerning the matter of whether the Order should be revoked. Indeed the former Minister for Defence wrote to the Minister for External Territories in November 1970 on the subject, as a result of this machinery discussion, saying that he saw no current need to bring the question before the Cabinet but thought it should be looked at again early this year. Had there been a submission it would have gone to Cabinet. So if the censure is directed at me on those grounds I refute it. lt matters little in the sweep of history what individual stands at this Dispatch Box as Prime Minister but in my view it matters greatly for Australia's future that he who does stand here should be one who represents the policies and courses of action which this coalition Government has followed for the benefit of our country. I believe the Liberal-Country Party coalition is the one best fitted to look to Australia's security, the one most likely to create the conditions for Australia's growth, the one most likely to tackle the causes of poverty at their roots, the one most likely to leave to the individual the maximum chance of using his talents to advance himself and his country. I believe it is now as in the past the best Government for my country and to my mind this transcends all else. 
I have still a part to play in this and I shall play it, as I am sure all members of the Liberal Party will, by giving full backing to the new Prime Minister, full backing to a party which is not, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested, a party ridden by nostalgia for the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies, but rather a party which sees and advances towards new horizons as it has done and as it will. Tn the party room there may, quite properly, be divisions in numbers on occasions when expressions of opinions are called for but once that has been resolved we must all come into this House without division and back our leader, as I know we will. No cause has been shown why the Government I headed should be censured. 
No cause can be shown why  Mr McMahon's  Government, which has been in office 5 days, can possibly be censured. I. believe that in the time ahead no cause will be able to be shown why it should ever be censured. I reject the motion. 
As I think the House will probably be aware, the original authority was an authority which at that time and because of the circumstances which then existed allowed the Administrator to requisition forces of the Pacific 
Islands Regiment to help the constabulary if he did not have time to get in touch with the Minister beforehand. After a Cabinet discussion in September, held because letters had been received from the former Minister for Defence and the Minister for External Territories, the Cabinet decided to vary that authority so that the Administrator must consult with Ministers before he is able to take any action under that Order-in-Council - not with a higher military authority but, in fact, with the Government. That was the variation which was made at that time. The Order-in-Council is still in existence. What it means is that the Government is in complete control as to whether or not troops are able to be called out in the case of emergency. But the Government can act without first securing another Order-in-Council. In regard to the last matter mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, which was a general discussion on amending the Defence Act as it affects the States, to the best of my knowledge that is not under discussion. But there has been, and is continuing to be, interdepartmental discussion in the proper governmental machinery as to the position in Papua and New Guinea and whether that should continue to be on all fours with the position in the States in Australia. 
I have not as yet had time fully to go into all details of a rather intricate department. 
Yes, you have to be quicker than a few hours. But 1 do understand that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has at least this to look forward to - that the Government did decide to establish a helicopter industry in Australia and that the Corporation was to be engaged in making those helicopters - not entirely; it will not be the only place but it is a place where this is to happen. This must have some helping effect on the possibility of retrenchment there. T do not say it is a complete answer. I will look into the other points that the honourable gentleman has made. But I think the House should know that the decision to establish a helicopter industry would at least be of assistance to these people. 
1 know that the Minister for Supply is aware of the situation in the factory to which the honourable member has referred. 1 have had some preliminary discussion with him about it but have not been able to discuss it in sufficient depth to give a more meaningful answer than that to the question which the honourable member has asked. There are some actions which are being taken as I have indicated to the House which should help to maintain this factory in production. Whether or not it will be possible to maintain it in full production, or for everybody employed there to be continued to be employed, 1 cannot yet answer, but 1 know that it is under study by the Minister for Supply. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  CDROYAL  AUSTRALIAN NAVY 
As indicated previously, the Government required more information, more detailed information, and a good deal more facts presented to it before it felt it could have proper grounds to take a decision that a tri-Service college should be established. Consequently the Department of Defence was asked to make further studies and put forward a further submission to Cabinet. I understand that those studies have been undertaken and that a submission, which has not yet come to me, has been virtually prepared. That is all I can tell the honourable member because I cannot tell him whether or not it will be approved by Cabinet when it does come before the Government. 
If the honourable member will permit, I will answer this question because pay rates apply not to one Service but to all Services. The reason why the 6 per cent increase awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has not yet passed to uniformed members of the Services is because it is necessary under the law for regulations to be made increasing the amounts paid. This is the duty of the Service concerned and, in the case of the Army, I am informed that there were no fewer than 35 pages of regulations required in order to make those and other amendments which were necessary as a result of various changes in pay rates. The law requires that these regulations should then go through the Executive Council and should then- 
Would you mind letting me finish? They are then laid on the table of each House. The regulations are, as I understand, in draft form and they are expected to go before the Executive Council at its next meeting. The honourable member was interjecting when I was speaking as to the 6 per cent increase to uniformed personnel. Were you talking not of uniformed personnel? 
In that case, it would need to be a different answer which perhaps the Minister for the Army or the Minister for Labour and National Service should provide. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present the production of F-Ill aircraft is scheduled to continue until July 1972 when a total of 540 aircraft, including two F-111Ks originally intended for the United Kingdom, will have been manufactured. The Australian Government is not aware of the extent to which funds will be made available for further, if any, aircraft by the United States Government, or of any reduction in funds. Consequently I am not in a position to advise when production might cease. 
No changes have been made to the order for the 24 F-111C aircraft. These aircraft have all been manufactured, but, in accordance with the Agreement dated 14th April, 1970  Mr Fraser  signed with  Mr Laird,  United States Secretary of Defence, will not be accepted until they achieve certain specified technical and operational criteria. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 ' ) One aircraft was accepted on behalf of the Australian Government on 4th September 1968, but because of difficulties with the wing carry through box the aircraft was placed in storage. The 24 F111C aircraft ordered by the Australian Government, including the one referred to above, have been manufactured. However in accordance with the agreement signed with  Mr Laird,  United States Secretary of Defense, on 14th April 1970, the aircraft will not be accepted by the Australian Government until they achieve certain specified technical and operational criteria. 
No F111C aircraft have been returned on loan to the United States Air Force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Four departments are represented on the inter-departmental committee established to consider the resettlement of members of the Regular Forces. They are the Department of Labour and National Service, who provides the  Chairman,  ill( Departments of the Navy, Army and Air. 
The committee was established in 1957. 
The protection of the Butterworth Air Base is the responsibility of the Government of Malaysia. I am unable to inform the honourable member of the exact number of troops which the Government of Malaysia has deployed for that purpose but it is the responsibility of that Government. I have merely read in the Press of the sort of Communist guerilla activity of which the honourable member has spoken. 1 have no information of Australian troops engaging in counter-insurgency actions and, indeed, the House will remember that one of the conditions on which the Government and the Parliament agreed that Australian troops would be stationed to our north was that they should not be used to counter internal disturbances which a local government could well counter itself. 
I ask for leave to make either a personal explanation or a short statement in relation to a matter raised by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James). 
The House will remember that earlier today the question was raised of a Department of Works contract at Terang for the Prime Minister's residence - repairs and painting. I have not checked yet what I am about to say with the Department of Works specifically, but the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  in whose electorate this is, has been in touch with the firm which in this document is shown as having carried out this work, and he has been assured that there is no truth in it, that indeed the Prime Minister's residence' was the Postmaster's residence' and, therefore, probably appeared as 'PM's Residence' and was so presented in the 'Gazette'.I have not checked this with the Department of Works, but I believe that to be correct. 
I would find it necessary to obtain from the Minister for Supply the plans which he had in mind for the manufacture of the light machine gun to which the honourable member has referred. The honourable member will recall that on an occasion I accompanied him over the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. Indeed, I do not think that that factory has in any way suffered, but rather has improved since that time. 
I must confess that when I read the terms of the matter proposed for discussion, 'The unresolved issue of Ministerial control of the Armed Forces', it was impossible for me to understand what it was that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was going to talk about because there can be no question but that there is ministerial control of the armed forces. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made no attempt to suggest that that was not so. There can be no question about it. So the issue is not unresolved; it is resolved. There is ministerial control and governmental control of the armed forces. Consequently, the real purpose of the speech delivered was not to suggest that there was not ministerial control but 1 think to endeavour to deliver a speech which was prepared some time ago and which is now so far out of date that it has no relevant purpose. 
There are a few points raised by the honourable member to which I should refer. In relation to the first of these I would reiterate that a Prime Minister, a Minister for Defence or a Minister for a Service is under an obligation to defend that Service against attacks which are not properly based and to deny allegations which are false. I believe that I should well reiterate that point. Any attempt to go beyond that - there seemed to be some attempt on the part of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - to say that that means unequivocal support for anything a Service does is clearly an improper extension of what is a proper approach. Of course, there is no requirement to defend a Service against a charge if that charge is properly based. There is no such requirement and indeed no-one has ever said there was. But what is more important. I think, is to examine the roles of the Minister for Defence, the Service Ministers and the Chiefs of Staff. 
I have little quarrel with what was placed before this House by the former Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to the role, in general, of the Minister for Defence. The Minister for Defence is the coordinating Minister, Not as a result of any law but as a result of an administrative arrangement order made by a Prime Minister, quite properly, he is the head of the Defence Services as a whole and is responsible for seeing that should this country need to be defended, plans have been made to cover various contingencies and that agreements have been made as to the kind of equipment the various Services would want. It is also true that there will need to be from time to time degrees of integration when that can be done with advantage to the Government and to the country - but not merely for integrations sake. That is the role of the Minister for Defence. But there are also quite significant roles for the Service Ministers. They are legally sworn in by the GovernorGeneral to be responsible to this House for the conduct of their Services. Indeed, I have not noticed any great desire on the part of past Ministers for Defence to jump to their feet, for example, when a charge is made that bad boots have been issued to the Army, that some water torture has been carried out by the Army, that there has been a collision in the Navy or that something is wrong in the Royal Australian Air Force. In that case the Ministers responsible would get up and quite properly account to the House for the running of their Services. 
 That is the case whether they change or whether they do not. All things change. The one thing that does not change is that responsibility of the Service Ministers to the House on these matters. There is also a responsibility on the chief of staff to the Services. They are not at the head of their Services in order to be called in and told what they must do - told what sort of equipment they require - just given their orders and expected to accept them and go away. Their role is to provide military advice. They are the heads of their Services. They have been through the ranks and have arrived at a stage at which they are looked to for the military advice they can give. It is their duty to provide that military advice to their Ministers and to the Minister for Defence through the defence complex. 
If a decision is taken finally after discussion which is not one which a chief of a particular Service would wish to be taken then he is bound loyally, completely and utterly to follow out that decision which has been made by the Government. But he would be failing in his duty if he did not in the course of discussions which led to the final formulation of a policy put forward properly his views of the military advice which he should give as it concerns his arm to the Government. That is the claim, as I see it. I believe that just as it is quite proper for a Service Minister not to have to ask the permission of the civilian head of his Department before he speaks to the head of the works division, just as it is not necessary for him to ask the permission of the Chief of the Naval Staff, for example, before he speaks to somebody in charge of construction, so it is not at all wrong or unnecessary for a Minister for Defence to speak to others down the line. These things make for smoother running, make for better running, and are not to be regarded as something other than that. 
There can be no question about these things. Firstly, there is no question as to whether ministerial contra] of the armed forces exists. Secondly, there is no question but that the paramount control lies in the Minister for Defence. Thirdly, there can be no question but that the Service Ministers themselves are responsible for their Services to this Parliament and - this is an important point - have, and always have had since  Sir Robert  Menzies put forward his administrative order, the right to ' approach the Cabinet if some decision made by the Minister for Defence is ohe which a Service Minister believes should be discussed in the Cabinet because it is against his own views of what his Service should provide. This has always been the case, and it reemphasises the significance of a Service Minister. 
I do not know of occasions, at any rate recently, when this has happened. But this merely shows that the process of discussion, the process of consultation, the processes that are going on, lead to a situation where a consensus of agreement is able to be reached. But it remains true that the Minister sworn in as the Minister responsible to this House can put his case to the Cabinet if there should be an area of disagreement. If this is so, and there is no question but that it is so, there can be no question - I come back to that again - but that full ministerial control of the armed forces is maintained. There has been no suggestion that civilian control has at any time been ignored by the chief of any Service. 
There has never been advanced a suggestion made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that a Service should be supported whether it is right or whether it is wrong. The only argument advanced is that a Service should be defended if false charges are made publicly against it. I am sure that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would not deny that concept. I know that a Minister for Defence will require from time to time to move people from old views. I know that junior officers in a particular Service will from time to time require to use their comparative youth, their new arguments, to move people from old views. There are always requirements for change, but they do not emanate only from one source. I would say nothing more about what I think was an attempt by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to rehash arguments which have already taken place. But before I sit down, I say once more to this House that there can be no justification for the motion put before it. The ministerial control of the armed forces is assured, is resolved, and is working, and I believe it is working in a proper and effective way. 
I think the honourable member would agree that at the present moment any aircraft in service of which I have ever heard is vulnerable to ground fire, anti-aircraft fire, SAM missiles or fire from the ground of one kind or another. The concept of the Fill as in the configuration in which it has been ordered by Australia renders it less vulnerable to such fire than almost any other aircraft known because of its capacity to fly at very low levels at high speeds and follow the terrain by the electronic instruments inside it. However, in the matter of ail these weapons of war constant experiment is going on and constant attempts to improve the operations of whatever weapon it may be. I have not seen the particular article to which the honourable member, refers. 1 can say only that attempts at improvements are constantly being undertaken and that at the moment 1 believe that most military men will agree that the FI 1 1 is less vulnerable than other aircraft to anti-aircraft fire because of the reasons I have given. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Services have provided worthwhile assistance lo the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Administration in road construction in the Territory. During the period 1961-1965 Army construction units sewed at Wewak with the primacy task of constructing a new road from Wewak to Maprik. Since 1965 a small Army engineer unit has been based at Popondetta and employed on public works in the Northern District in conjunction with the Administration's Public Works Department. During this year the unit will be moved to Mendi where its work will, in the main, be the design and supervision of contract work on road-building and associated construction mcn as bridges in the Southern Highlands. The Navy has also on occasions provided assistance in restoring road links on Manus Island. 
Consideration has been given to the practicability of increasing Service assistance to the Administration in this field but having regard to other high priority Service commitments, it is not practicable for Service construction units to do more than they are already doing in the Territory. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The COBOL programming language has been in limited use since early 1968, and a number of systems employing it are now in regular operation. This Language will be used for all major new systems developed for the Armed Services EDP Project in the future, and it is planned that systems not now using it will be progressively converted to its use over the next five years. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Professor H. Whitmore (Chairman) Dean of the Faculty of Law, Australian National University. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The report was handed to my predecessor on the 2nd of March, 1971. 
and (3) The report and the suggestions in it will be put to study by the individual Departments and the Armed Services. They will be later examined collectively from the joint Service point of view; when the examination and consultation are complete I will be in a position to report to the Government. I am not at present contemplating publishing the report. Any eventual decision by the Government on the matters studied by the Committee would be announced in the normal way. 
As announced by the then Minister for Defence in March 1969, the composition of the Committee was: 

 Sir William Refshauge, Director General of Health  (Chairman) 

 Sir Frederick Chilton, then  Chairman  Repatriation Commission. 
Professor S. Sunderland, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, University of Melbourne. 

 Dr H. D. Raffan, Consultant in Ear, Nose and Throat Surgery. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The approved establishment of, the Defence Science Division totals 33 positions. 
The present strength is 25 officers. 
Duty statements for all positions are available and are being supplied separately to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the inter-departmental com mittee are - 
I think that the best thing under the circumstances would be to ask the honourable member to put the question on notice. 
It has been agreed by the British- Government and the Australian Government that it is reasonable to pay for beneficial services which are provided to bases and to the troops in them and, in certain circumstances, for the hire of married quarters on the market. It has not yet been agreed that payments over and above those sums should be paid. This is still a subject of consideration, as I think was made clear in the communique issued in London. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth; 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low, that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a toursit attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. lt is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray, that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. 
 Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
And your petitioners, therefore, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think that the Leader of the Opposition might have gone back a little further in his resume to the initial statement made in this House on behalf of the Government when the decision was made to retain Australian troops in the Singapore-Malaysia area, even after the withdrawal of the British forces. If he does cast his mind back to that he will note that in that statement it was specifically pointed out that we were talking of the peninsula of Malaya and that we felt that at that time the best service we could render in regard to East Malaysia was diplomatic assistance and other assistance of that kind. At the moment the 5-power arrangements which were drawn up and which were the subject of a communique issued in London differ from the previous arrangements under which British and other troops were stationed in that area. Previously, the British had the Anglo-Malayan Defence Agreement which was quite definite and quite specific that they were required to take certain action in certain circumstances. The new agreement arranges for consultation when the areas are believed to be the subject of attack directly or an internal subversion inspired from without. The present provisions provide for consultation between the parties, which are different from the provisions required under AMDA and they apply to all the areas in the area. 
Yes, the Kerr Committee has been engaged in quite a detailed  gathering of evidence. I have myself spoken to the  Chairman  of the Committee. It has taken evidence from a variety of sources. I believe that there will quite' shortly be a report from the Kerr Committee which will be presented on this whole question of pay and allowances of the Services. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In December 1969 the nucleus of a section was established in the Logistics Division of the Defence Department to study supply organisations, policies and procedures in the Defence Group of Departments with a view to determining the extent of re-organisation, co-ordination, rationalisation and standardisation required. 
In the same month a high level Steering Committee was established under the chairmanship of a  Deputy  Secretary,- Department of Defence with terms of reference which consisted, inter alia: 
To identify the present procurement organisation, functions and procedures of the Service and Supply Departments, both within Australia and overseas, and to submit proposals: 
recommending rationalisation measures; 
for the management control by one authority of common user items including the application of the Single Manager concept and its implications.' 
Under the direction of the Steering Committee commodity areas were selected on their potential for single manager arrangements. Studies of these commodity areas have been completed or are in progress, and as a result, the Steering Committee has so far approved the single management of food preparation and serving equipment (excluding 2 group/classes with little commonality) and common weapons, their associated spares and ammunition through 30mm by the Army. 
An implementation plan to give effect to these changes in responsibility is being prepared at the present time. 
It has also been decided that the RAAF be responsible for the complete supply support of Navy HS748, Macchi and Iroquois aircraft, also the Army Light Observation Helicopter. In respect to the Macchi, they have already assumed responsibility for the supply support of this aircraft. 
The Defence Procurement Steering Committee has recognised that, apart from common supply terminology (in which area considerable progress continues to be made), the development of standard demand and issue procedures and the codification of service holdings to the Defence Codification System, are essential prerequisites to the proliferation of single manager arrangements. They have therefore appointed a Study Team to examine the development of standard demand and issue procedures for use by the Services and have sought a high priority for codification of commodities selected for single management. 
Additional staff have recently been engaged by the Department of Defence to carry out studies in selected commodity areas and assist the Services and Department of Supply in the implementation of single manager arrangements. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department has not conducted any surveys of the time taken to travel various distances in and between the capital cities. 
 The Minister for Supply has provided the following reply: 
and (2) Details of all procurement contracts placed by the Department of Supply's Contract Boards are published in the Commonwealth Gazette. A list of some of the major contracts placed during each financial year is provided in the Department of Supply's annual report, which is presented to the Parliament. Contracts of particular interest or magnitude are generally the subject of a Ministerial Statement in the Parliament or a Ministerial Press Release. 
If the honourable member has a particular area of interest, I would be happy to see whether additional detail could reasonably be provided. 
The following disposals realised more than $100,000 at each sale and, as such, might te regarded as 'major'. 
 The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. Following the visit by  Dr Paine,  then Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, to Australia in early 1970, meetings were held between the Department of Supply and other departments to discuss possible Australian participation in the future NASA programme. Working groups were established to examine the various applications satellite projects, including one on Earth Resources. As a number of branches of the Department of National Development are directly concerned with Earth Resources, that Department agreed to co-ordinate the work of the group. 
The following Commonwealth Departments have been involved in the discussions of the Earth Resources group: 
National Development Education and Science Primary Industry the Interior the Army Supply 
The following are those Australian authorities known to be interested at present in participating in the NASA, Earth Resources Satellite programme: 
Antarctic Division, Department of Supply CSIRO, Department of Education and Science 
 The matter of public importance which the Opposition has raised is worded thus: 
The continuing waste of public money, frustration of skilled personnel and disruption of the defence programme in Australia due to the Fill contract. 
In the whole of the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of  the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  there was no attempt to argue that there was any frustration of skilled personnel as a result of the Fill contract. 
The terms of the matter of public importance say so.. Nor was there any attempt to argue that the defence programme was being disrupted due to the FI 1 1 contract. I think that in a few words I should refer to both these matters which are mentioned in this matter of public importance which has been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It is nothing short of sheer nonsense to claim that skilled personnel are being frustrated because of the Fill contract. It is clear, and I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition may know it is so, that skilled personnel in the Royal Australian Air Force are working on the Phantoms which have been brought to Australia as interim replacements for the Fill. I am informed that their morale is extraordinarily high. Is it argued that their morale is bad or that they are frustrated if they are working on anything but an Fill? Is it argued that it would be all right if they were working on an Fill, because if that is the argument it is surely an argument for getting the F111. Yet the argument seemed to be designed to be against it. There is not and cannot be any truth in the suggestion that skilled personnel are in any way being frustrated because of the F111 contract 
The matter we are discussing states that there is disruption of the defence programme in Australia due to the F111 contract but, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out, interim strike aircraft have been brought to Australia pending the delivery of the F111. Those strike aircraft are here. Those aircraft are assisting and not disrupting the defence programme of Australia and while they will not, in themselves, do as much as the F111 will do, nevertheless until the F111 is presented they are an extremely good aircraft for the role for which they are required. As the former Minister for Defence indicated in his statement, sufficient arrangements have been made for tanker aircraft to enable them to fulfil the role the Air Force wishes them to have. Any suggestion that there is a frustration of skilled personnel or a disruption of the defence programme because of the F111 contract cannot be, in any degree whatever, sustained. Indeed, I believe that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition must have been aware of that because he did not even attempt to sustain it. 
That being so, what is the gravamen of the charge that there is a continuing waste of public money due to the F111 contract? Let us examine what arguments were advanced in support of that contention. As far as I could follow the argument of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition it was that if we were to cancel the F111 at this point of time there would be very great cost to Australia because we would lose the benefit of what we have already paid for the F111 and would have to expend large sums of money on some replacement. This was the argument as I understood it, and I believe this is so. If it is true, and it is, that cancelling the F111 contract now would lead to the great expenditure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said it would lead to, surely it is not a continuing waste of public money to continue with the contract. Rather would it be a gross waste and an inexcusable waste of public money to cancel that contract at this stage and involve us in all the expenditure which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, quite rightly, we would be involved in. 
It seems to be a very strange form of argument to say that there is a waste of public money because we are following a course which is likely to save rather than increase our expenditure. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition raised certain matters concerning the F111 itself. One of them was related to the recent crash in which the crew was killed. I think I should make it clear that the aircraft were not grounded, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said. There is a technical difference between the grounding of an aircraft and the suspension of an aircraft. If it is grounded it is unable to be flown under any circumstances - I refer to the United States Air Force regulations. If it is suspended it is able to be flown if there is an emergency or if it is required, and this in fact was all that occurred - a suspension. I do not believe that the failure of the parachute on the ejection capsule will affect in any way the approach to the purchase of the F111 aircraft. I speak, subject to the full report on the reasons why the cartridges - if that is the proper word - which were supposed to send the parachute out after the capsule had separated itself from the aircraft did not operate, but this is not as significant as the other problems still to be overcome on the F111. 
When the former Minister for Defence spoke in this House previously he pointed out quite frankly and quite rightly that it would not be until December 1971 at the earliest - I emphasise that - that we would be able to make a decision on the F111. He added:'I have indicated it could be much later'. The House was therefore put fully in possession of the facts at that stage, and those are still the facts. We cannot yet make a decision and indeed we did not indicate we could. We have not sufficiently overcome the technical problems which still remain. It could be that it would be later that a decision could be made than the end of 1971. But if the F111 aircraft can overcome those technical problems which still remain then its operational performance will be that which is required by the Royal Australian Air Force; that which the Air Board has said it wishes to have. It will be a strike aircraft with a range that the Air Force wanted, with a capacity to drop accurately its bombs by day, by night, through cloud, on seen or unseen targets, which the Air Force said it wanted. It will have a capacity to come in low under enemy radar which the Air Force said it wanted and indeed it will meet the specifications which our military advisers said they wished to be met, according to the advice given to us, better than would any other aircraft now flying. 
So the operational benefits from this aircraft are not, I think, in question. I do not even think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition questioned that. What is in question - what still does remain to be resolved - is the capacity of this aircraft in its operational role to be able to fulfil the requirements of the Air Force and not to be restrained to only part of its performance envelope because of technical difficulties relating to steel and other matters of that kind. Surely it is wise and proper that the Government, having made, through the former Minister for Defence, an arrangement with the United States that if this aircraft did not overcome its technical problems to a degree where it could meet the operational requirements of our Air Force, should say that we would not have to take delivery of that aircraft. That is a great step forward. Surely that is wise and surely, having that safety factor, it is also wise for us to say that while there is a continuing improvement in overcoming technical faults we will maintain our contract, our contract being to accept these aircraft only if these technical faults are fully overcome. If it should turn out that there may be a greater delay in the delivery of the aircraft, as it well might, than was previously thought to be the case, then at least the aircraft will still be amongst the best in the world for the job for which they are required by our Air Force, and their operational life will in fact be extended by that amount of time by which the delivery may be delayed. 
All I can say in conclusion is that there has been no indication and no argument that there is a waste of public money in continuing the Fill contract under the conditions of the agreement between Laird and Fraser. Rather there has been argument advanced to show that it would be a waste of public money to scrap that contract at this time. There has been no argument advanced to show that skilled personnel are frustrated, and indeed they are not. There has been no argument advanced to show that there has been a disruption in the defence programme of Australia, but rather an argument showing that we now have good strike aircraft the possibility of getting better. So there is no significance whatsoever in the arguments advanced by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
I add only this: I am not responsible for completely incorrect reports which may appear in the Australian Press. If some newspaper wrote that I was going to the United States to conduct discussions on the Fill, that is not my fault. The newspaper must have invented it or been told by someone who did not know the facts. The facts are that I was definitely not going to discuss the Fill for the technical matters in issue - the question of the testing of certain parts and the question of the steel involved - are not matters which I am competent to discuss. Neither, I would think, are they matters that the United States Defence Secretary is competent to discuss. These are matters for experts from our own Air Force and scientists and for experts from the United States Air Force and scientists. These are the levels at which these discussions are now taking place. I cannot undertake that this Fill aircraft will overcome finally all the technical problems we wish it to overcome, to a degree where it will fill the operational requirements laid down by our own Air Force. But I believe I can say that if those technical disabilities are overcome to that extent - I hope and believe they will be but I cannot be sure - we will have in operation an aircraft which completely meets the requirements of our own Air Force, a good strike aircraft and one which it would be folly to jeopardise at this stage by cancelling the contract as is suggested by the Opposition. 
I have read in the Press various remarks attributed to Vice-President Ky, and indeed to other significant figures in South Vietnam. I think that the honourable member might remember that there is the beginning of an election campaign in that country and that a number of statements are often made in election campaigns, even in this country. Also, I would like to take this opportunity of pointing out to the honourable member that in South Vietnam an election campaign is possible. Free elections can be held, whereas they cannot be held in North Vietnam, and that is one purpose of our presence there - to see that the South Vietnamese retain the right to have a free election. I do not think that the rest of the so-called question requires any answer other than the request to know whether there would be a statement on defence. I understand that the Opposition is refusing leave for statements. 
Before leaving on the overseas visit which I have recently concluded, I had a discussion with members of the Air Board, with the Minister for Air, with technical officials and with the Secretary to the Department of Defence on the technical stages of the Fill and certain steel which went into that aircraft. This was not a briefing in expectation that I should be discussing with the United States Government the question of the Fill because, as 1 have indicated, it was confined to technical and scientific matters. We reached, I think, the very proper conclusion that these matters should be the subject of discussions between technical experts and that there was little point in myself or Secretary Laird discussing matters of this scientific complexity. 
Indeed, there is going on, as is more or less continually going on, discussions between experts from Australia and the United States on those technical matters to which I referred yesterday, and there will be a senior Air Force officer going to continue these kinds of discussions - not, as the honourable member suggested, to do the job which I neglected to do but rather to do the job for which he is competent because he is a technical expert, and which we decided he should do. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report produced by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled 'Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from May to August 1970'. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The major prohibited areas in South Australia are the Woomera Prohibited Area and the adjoining Maralinga Prohibited Area. 
These prohibited areas are declared as such to enable the Government to control entry in the interests of security and safety. There are established pastoral activities in the areas, and additionally, tourist and mineral exploration activities are permitted insofar as security and safety requirements allow. In relation to mineral exploration it will be appreciated that no guarantee could be given that companies would be permitted to set up permanent establishments such as mines and that such a possibility would need to be considered in each case in the event of significant mineral finds. 
As recently announced by Ministerial Statement to the Parliament, an ample workload at Woomera is assured at least until 1974. The Woomera Prohibited Area will need to be retained for reasons of security and safety in carrying out this work. However, the honourable member may be assured that my Department reviews this matter from time to time and that restrictions will not be imposed any longer, or to an extent greater, than is necessary. 
In regard to the Maralinga Prohibited Area my Department, in consultation with Department of Defence, is currently reviewing both- the extent to which this area might be reduced and the extent to which restrictions can be eased within the localities which need to remain . a prohibited area. 
IKARA Anti-Submarine Missile System (Question No.  3082) 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following reply: 
The total cost to date of the research, development and prototype production of the IKARA anti-submarine missile system for use by the Royal Australian Navy is $23,446,553. 
These costs include basic research and development, feasibility studies and associated administrative efforts, and also manufacture of prototype and pre-production missiles and equipments used in research and development trials, compilation of initial draft handbooks and provision of equipments used for environmental tests on elements of the IKARA system. 
I wish  to  make a personal explanation. I think that 1 have been misrepresented by a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition concerning Mineral Securities Australia Ltd. I think that this is so. I do not believe that I did give an undertaking or an assurance that the shares in the various Minsec subsidiary companies could not and would not be sold to overseas owners. My recollection of what occurred is that when Minsec ran into trouble a number of industrialists from abroad and from within Australia met with me, and arrangements were made for  a  considerable sum  of  money  to  be lent  to  Minsec, or  at  any  rate  to  be  used  so that  those creditors  of  Minsec who  held  shares in the Minsec's subsidiary companies as security could be paid off. The ownership of those shares would then return to Minsec, and Minsec would be in  a  position where it could sell them gradually and without pressure on the market in the ordinary stock exchange ways. I think there is  a  slight difference between that and the suggestion that, under all circumstances, assurances could be given that what has happened would not happen. May I conclude by expressing my pleasure that the Prime Minister has made it clear that I have at least one constant reader? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, etc. The Minister will recall informing the House that it will cost some $7m over 5 years to establish the formerly proposed film and television school in Australia. Will the Minister inform the House how this sum is arrived at, breaking it down into land and buildings, capital excluding land and buildings, and annual running expenses? Will the Minister also inform the House whether this is the only proposal that was put before him or whether there were other proposals for the establishment of this Australian School which were estimated to cost less than the sum he mentioned in the House? If this is so, will he inform the House what the other estimates and suggestions were? Is it a fact that Australia sends or remits some 
S55m a year abroad for films alone, excluding the cost of television, and if so, has there been any estimate made of the saving to Australia which even one successful film or television series with world wide distribution would bring to Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport and follows upon a question asked by the honourable member for Griffiths concerning the ketch 'One and AH'. Will the Minister ask his departmental advisers to consider the feasibility, on the assumption that the Commonwealth has sovereignty over the territorial sea, of creating a safety code at Commonwealth level for vessels not engaged in overseas or interstate trade but sailing in and beyond the confines of the territorial sea? 
I rise to speak on the present confusion which surrounds the Government's attitude to the recommendations made by the interim council for the establishment of a national film and television school. We have been variously told by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  firstly, that in 12 months time consideration will be given to the recommendations made by the interim council. In my belief this statement was made by the Minister on the direct verbal instructions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Secondly, we were told by the Minister that in 12 months time consideration will be given not to the interim council's recommendations but to some other, at present unformulated, recommendations which the Minister believes will be better. We have been told by the Prime Minister that the matter has not been deferred for 12 months because well before 12 months time some proposals - it is not clear what proposals - will receive Government consideration. Today we have been told by  Mr Phillip  Adams, through a newspaper, that the Prime Minister has assured him, on the telephone, I understand, that  Mr Howson's  comments in the House were misinterpreted and that it has already been decided that work on the national school is definitely to proceed. At least this is an advance on considering the matter at some time in the future. 
Further, this afternoon the Minister answered a question on which I am unable properly to comment because he took the unprecedented step of refusing to allow me to look at the Hansard greens of his answer or to allow me to get a copy of his answer from Hansard. However, he did say - I listened to the rebroadcast of his answer at 7.15 p.m. - that he had given details of the first report of the interim council to the House. I suggest that in fact he did not. I think the House and the country would be grateful if these conflicting statements could be reconciled so that we might have a clear idea of just what recommendations are to be considered by the Government, and when. I express the hope that when this matter does come to be considered by the Government those considering it will not accept the figures given to the House by the Minister as accurate because they are not. We were told that the estimated cost of establishing the school would be over $7m. Leaving aside the consideration that this figure included running costs for the first 5 years, which is surely a dubious method of computing the costs of establishing a school, still the costs given to us are misleading. We were told that the cost of the land for the school would be $2.4m, but this is not the cost of the land required for a film and television school, lt is- the cost of 60 acres of land, contiguous to Macquarie University, which it is estimated can be bought for $40,000 an acre. Those 60 acres of land are required so that in the future, hopefully, a complex or consortium of various post-graduate arts schools may be established on the one site and exert influence, the one upon the other, in a national centre for advanced training in the arts. 
We might well have then not only the film and television training school but also a post-graduate school of industrial design, a post-graduate Australian conservatorium, an opera school and, perhaps in the future, a ballet school and a national institute nf dramatic art conferred to the one site, all self-governing, all independent, yet by their nature interrelated and the activities of any one perhaps influencing the activities of others. This would give an opportunity for cross fertilisation of ideas. I had thought that such a concept might well advantage the creative arts in Australia and that if sufficient land was bought to . make this possible there could be no real chance of monetary loss even if the project did not in the future go ahead, because such land could undoubtedly be sold at a profit. The interim council fully agreed with this and, therefore, proposed to buy an area of 60 acres, that being enough to provide room for all these creative schools on the one site. But the interim council believed that all that would be required for a film and television school would be not . 60 acres but approximately 8 acres and at $40,000 an acre the cost of land for such a film school would be $320,000 and not $2.4m which the Minister has worked on as the cost of land for the school. 
It would be a very great pity if the recommendations of the interim council were dropped because of such misleading costing. Similarly it would be tragic if the recommendations were held up because of other misinformation. For instance, we were told that it would be too expensive to spend $7m in order to produce 12 graduates a year and we heard doubts raised by the Minister as to whether I had really considered the total number of graduates that would be required by the industry. As to the second point, let me assure the Minister and the Committee at once that I did not consider the total number of graduates that would be required by the industry. I did not feel competent to do so. That is why I set up an experienced and distinguished interim council to consider this and other matters relating to the establishment of the school. The council did examine this matter very fully and had consultations with those engaged in the industry. This is shown by the council's remarks on page 12 of its first report, which honourable members have not had an opportunity to see. It is shown too by an 81 -page report commissioned by the interim council and compiled by P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd on the very matter of the number of graduates required by the industry. 
So there is no substance in any suggestion that there has not been full, and exhaustive consideration given to how many graduates are required by the industry; neither is there any accuracy in the statement made to us that the school would produce 12 graduates a year. In fact, the second report of the interim council on page 4 anticipates that when staff and accommodation are available the annual intake may well be as high as SO students. Not all of the intake will complete the course but it is clear that the suggestion that the school plans to produce only 12 graduates a year is quite mistaken and quite misleading. The employment survey from P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd reports that, all things being equal, the industry believes that it can absorb 30 to 40 graduates a year, excluding any requirements from other quarters such as educational television or those required to train people to engage in educational television. lt is of no use talking of what we have done in the Film Development Corporation or the experimental film fund and using this as an excuse for not founding the school. All 3 initiatives need to be taken and regarded as an interrelated 3- pronged attack on the problem. Indeed, it the Film Development Corporation is to be fully effective the film school is essential in order to improve the standards of production which the Film Development Corporation could use. A cost of $6m or $7m over 5 years should not be too frightening. After all it is only roughly the cost of running the Australian Broadcasting Commission for 7 or 8 weeks and we should be able to meet this expense. There is now no film or television school in the South Pacific nor, indeed, in the whole Southern Hemisphere. We can be the leaders in this half of the world. Let us look not at film and television making in Australia as it is. Let us rather look at it as it could and should be. Let us adopt the recommendations of the expert committee instead of rushing round in circles seeking some way to evade them. Let us regard this as a real contribution to creative art and therefore to the quality of life, as a good long term economic investment and as a way of showing the world the Australian scene presented with the highest artistic, professional and technical skill such as befits the nation we are and the nation we can become. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Will he read the speech to which the Leader of the Opposition referred in order that it will be clear to him, the Prime Minister, that my remarks were not directed towards what has happened in the past in the attack on inflation but rather towards a discussion of what proper action would be now should that inflation continue? 1 am sure that if he reads that speech his belief in my wisdom will be reinforced. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally, concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have closed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by, far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners,  as  in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an Immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least 10 million dollars immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectively showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That,  as  part  of  the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government grant income tax deductions for donations over TWO DOLLARS made towards the relief  of  overseas disaster areas. 
That this be effected with haste  to  ensure the maximum possible aid  to  those at present in refugee camps and those in danger  of  famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners,  as  in duty bound, will ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members  of  the House  of  Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal  is  of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That only a quick settlement of the Pakistan-Bangla Desh conflict will make  it  possible  to  avert the death  of  many millions. 
That concerted action by the world community  is  an immediate imperative. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government, in order  to  effect relief to some, grant  at  least temporary entry  to  academic and qualified persons among those from Bangla Desh. 
That donations over $2 be tax deductible when contributed towards the relief  of  refugees inside and outside East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as a part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government go beyond the plea of the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty of this openly and democratically elected leader. Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
told the House that the cost of establishing the proposed National Film and Television School would be 'over $7m during the next 5 years'. In subsequent statements or answers to questions he informed the House that the School would produce 12 graduates a year and that it was doubtful if sufficient attention had been given to the numbers of graduates which the industry would require. I subsequently refuted the 2 latter statements, pointing out that the Interim Council had commissioned a full survey into the needs of the industry - this has now been tabled - and that the number of graduates was planned to be many more than 12 a year even though the number in the initial years may be only slightly more than 12 a year. The corrections I so made have not been questioned except in a minor way by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  tonight and I therefore presume they are admitted. 
But I also corrected the statement made by the Minister to the effect that the cost of the School would be over $7m over 5 years. I pointed out that the Minister had included a cost of $2.4m for land for the School whereas the School itself required only 8 acres of land, and that was estimated to cost some $320,000. This assertion of mine has been questioned tonight yet it is correct as I believe the reading of the 2 reports which have been tabled will make crystal clear. All the way through the reports the Committee differentiates between what is required for the Arts Centre, consisting of many schools, and what is required for the School itself. Thus in the recommendations made on page 4 of the first report it is recommended: 
That the establishment of the National Film and Television School be regarded as a priority matter, nol to be delayed pending decisions and actions on the proposed Centre. 
That is, the larger proposition. On page 15, paragraph 11.5 of the first report, the Committee supports the idea of the larger centre in which: 
The Film and Television School would share the common facilities and services with other similarly oriented schools. 
In page 17, paragraph 12.3, the Committee states that only Macquarie University appears to have a sufficient area of land immediately adjacent to it not only for the Film and Television School but also for the additional area that might be required for the Centre with its other schools. Past experience in establishing other colleges of advanced education indicates that some 60 acres may well be required. I point out that the Committee is talking of the area required for the Centre, not the area required for the School. Having indicated that 60 acres were needed for the whole Centre, including the Film and Television School, the Committee then went on in its second report at page 7, paragraph 4.5, to say: 
The programme as set out in the timetable is applicable whether the Government accepts the recommendations to purchase the larger area required for the Centre - 
That is, the 60 acres -  or a lesser area sufficient for the Film and Television School alone. 
It is clear that the Committee in talking about 60 acres was talking about the area needed for the whole Centre and was urging the Government to go ahead and buy a smaller area sufficient to the School alone if it was not prepared to buy the larger area. Therefore, to take the cost of the larger area and attribute all that cost to the film and television school which only needed a smaller area is to present incorrect figures to the House. I congratulate the Prime Minister on having tabled the 2 reports of the Committee and on having tabled the very extensive survey which was carried out and commissioned by the Interim Council on the requirements of the industry for graduates. I congratulate him because now there are before all honourable members the actual reports of the interim committee, and every member of this Parliament and of the public who is interested will be able to read these reports, to have the factual information in the reports before them and to make up their own minds as to the accuracy of the figures previously presented. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment. The Minister may recall a question asked of  him yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition concerning Aboriginal land rights. Arising from the Minister's answer yesterday I ask him this: Am I to take it that he is stating (1) that there has as yet been no Cabinet decision at all on this matter or (2) that the Committee of Ministers has not as yet made any firm recommendation to the Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister seen a Press report in at least one of today's newspapers to the effect that Australia is to pay the expenses of members of the Singapore forces trained in Australia should such training take place? Is that report accurate or is the Singapore Government itself to pay the cost of any such training? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the. people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I congratulate the Government on presenting such farsighted, statesmanlike and admirable estimates as these and I hope that noone will be nasty enough to think that I do this merely because I was instrumental in persuading the Government to adopt them. From the strictly defence point of view of course the estimates should be larger but from the national point of view, and remembering all our competing claims, they are, I think, as large as we could expect. For the future they will not be large enough unless the Government either reduces the manpower of our forces or refrains from securing modern replacements for the ships, aircraft, artillery and tanks which are wearing out. But that is a decision for the next Budget. 
I want now to discuss the matter of defence against the background of my firm belief that if turmoil develops in the region to our north there will be no United States involvement in that area and there may, according to the circumstances, be no British involvement. I express the hope once again that public discussion of Australia's defence requirements will not be confused by parrot cries of 'forward defence' from some people and 'Fortress Australia' from other people, for much of the public discussion of this matter over the years has gone no deeper than support for such unthinking slogans and approval of some slogan called 'forward defence' and condemnation of some other called 'Fortress Australia'. I believe that those who conduct these discussions in those terms do a great disservice to the rational consideration of what defence material Australia needs, and I believe that those who seek to portray a concept of forward defence as being incompatible with a concept of Fortress Australia and suggest that they are opposed one to the other do a real disservice to the planning of Australia's defence and therefore to Australia itself. 
The prime object of Australia's defence is the preservation of Australia itself from military attack and subjection. That is the end purpose we need to achieve. In order to succeed in doing so it is obviously in our national interest to try to prevent any overt successful attacks on the countries to our north, and to do what we can to keep any fighting which may develop as far from Australia's shores as possible. To do this we need the capacity and the willingness to join with such countries as Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia, should they wish to join with us and with each other, in repelling overt attacks on any one of them in that region; but we cannot and should not try to do this by ourselves. 
In my view the capacity of which I have spoken should be primarily, though not wholly, provided by naval and air forces capable of operating off the shores of, or even being based in, such countries. I say primarily, though not wholly' because we should also have the capacity to provide and transport ground forces able to operate in concert with local forces, and we should have the willingness to provide technical support, logistic support, signals support and weapons of various kinds when they are wanted and needed. But I do suggest that the use of any Australian ground forces in Asia in the future should be the subject of the strictest safeguards by any Australian government. It was a cardinal principle in United States military thinking post-Korea and pre-Vietnam that American ground troops should not become involved in large scale hostilities in Asia. I think time has shown that thinking to be valid, and if it is valid for a country with the power of the United States, how much more valid is it for Australia. But to have the capacities I have mentioned, able to be used in these ways, must be in Australia's interests. 
I presume that what I have just said is what is meant by those who advocate what they call forward defence. But having said that, I now emphasise that we cannot and will not have this capacity unless we first have a secure, well defended Australian base on which any forward operations must primarily depend. The dockyards to repair and refit our naval vessels must be here and must be defended; the aerodromes from which strike or maritime reconnaissance aircraft will operate must be here and must be defended. The defence of them and of our cities and of factories producing war material calls for fighter and missile protection, for a capacity to move ground troops inside Australia and for a capacity to call an army quickly into being by calling up trained reserves such as are now provided by the national service scheme. 
This concept, I suppose, is what those who denigrate it call Fortress Australia. Yet only by adopting that concept can Australia properly be defended, for I repeat there can be no effective forward defence which does not depend entirely on a secure, well defended base in Australia itself. Proper defence planning would, as far as our resources allow, provide for both requirements but would regard the protection of Australia itself as a secure base as the first and overriding requirement - a sine qua non. This is not retreating to isolation. It is not 'settling down behind the barricades'. It is realising that a secure and well defended Australia is an essential basis of any defence policy. 
A dialogue on this subject tends to be further confused by discussion of whether Australian ground troops should or should not continue to stay in Singapore. I think there is more nonsense talked about this than about any other matter connected with defence. I think it was right for us to keep troops there when we did. I think there are strong arguments - not as strong as they were but still strong arguments - for retaining our troops there now. But people speak as if retaining a battalion of troops there was in itself a forward defence policy. It is not. Retaining our ground troops there now is one facet of such a forward defence policy but it does not of itself provide such a policy, and removing them I would hope would not mean the abandonment of a concept of forward defence. I think it essential that we should realise this because I believe that sooner rather than later in the life of the nation their presence will no longer be welcomed by local governments. We should not seek to stay one minute after this becomes evident, but when that time comes it would be tragic if we become so obsessed with the matter on both sides that we abandoned planning for regional assistance as I earlier defined it and thought that merely because our troops had come from Singapore we could no longer have forward defence. 
There is much I want to say about defence which cannot possibly be said in the time allotted for an Estimates debate. I hope therefore that a defence statement will not be too long delayed and I hope that when it is made and debated it will not be marred by being conducted in terms of slogans or of insult or of cries of 'war.mongers' from one side of the Parliament and 'traitors' from the other. It is too important a subject for this. 

 - Mr Speaker, my question to the Treasurer concerns a matter which I have brought to his notice in correspondence, lt requires a short preamble so that its import can be thoroughly understood. I understand that not infrequently Commonwealth employees - I confine this question to them - are paid less than they are entitled to receive. This under-payment, which is done by mistake, may go on over a period of years. When it is discovered, the amount under-paid is paid to the employee in a lump sum and that lump sum is added to the employee's normal income in the year in which it is paid for the purposes of striking a taxation rate. The Taxation Office claims that under the Act it is unable to do anything else than this and cannot apportion the amount under-paid over the years during which it was under-paid for taxation purposes. I ask the Treasurer Is this, in fact the position? If it is the position, will he examine the existing Act in order to try to ensure that employees are not disadvantaged through a mistake not made by them but by the Commonwealth as their employer? 
I believe that the debate on this statement and the papers which were tabled at the time the statement was made can meaningfully proceed only after the papers themselves have been able to be examined by all honourable members. I understand that the Government is prepared to make time available for this debate at a later stage in this session and I therefore move: 
That the debate be adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to make it clear right from the outset that I do not support this motion, as it has been put forward. Nor can I, for reasons which will be immediately apparent, regard the present tax as an ill-considered piece of bureaucratic nonsense. That point T wish to make in the first instance. Secondly, if I may, I should like to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  It was noticeable that when this motion was first brought on not one member of the Opposition appeared to consider it of sufficient importance to put his name down on the Speaker's list. It was a virgin list, as far as the Opposition was concerned though I would not now regard it as a virgin list, after listening to the speech of the honourable member for the Riverina. After all, he told us that actions speak louder than words. So far he appears to be the only  speaker  from the Opposition side. The first thing he did was to try to gag the debate and suggest that there should be no further speakers in it. It is noticeable that there are no Opposition speakers from the State of South Australia - the State which is alleged to be so badly affected by this legislation. Therefore,  I  believe that this is evidence that there is no real interest by the Opposition in this matter, and there appears to be no interest by honourable members opposite who come from South Australia. This seems to bear out the suggestion made by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that the industry in South Australia has been unable to receive a clear answer from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  as to what the Opposition's policy will be. I do not know whether that is true or not, but it has been alleged by the honourable member for Angas, and the actions today at least lend some colour to it. 
I have 2 reasons for speaking. The first is that I feel and accept a great measure of responsibility because the measure imposing the excise was introduced by a government which I led. I want that to be thoroughly understood by the House. Nor do I think it at all wrong that an alcoholic beverage such as wine should be subjected to the same kind of taxation, or at least to taxation, as are the competitors of wine - beer, whisky and other spirits. Why should one alcoholic beverage be selected to be. free from what is imposed upon its competitors? Secondly, I would suggest - this has been argued very often, and it is of course true - that what happens in the wine industry gravely affects primary producers who produce the grapes from which wine and other spirits are made. That is quite true. But it is also true that what happens in the beer industry affects primary producers who produce barley, malt and the other primary products from which such beverages are made. So there is no significant difference in these respects. I would go further and say that for those reasons I do not think it wrong that a tax should have been imposed on this beverage. I do not believe that the results of the excise which was imposed have been such as have been suggested by the honourable member for Riverina and other speakers. I say that for this reason: The excise imposed was the equivalent of 8c a bottle, and the honourable member for Riverina admits that. He says that the Government gets 8c a bottle out of it. But as a result of the imposition of excise of 8c a bottle, the vignerons, the sellers of wine, raised the price of a bottle not by 8c but by 15c. 
They put it on, we did not; they raised the price by 15c, not by 8c, and this clearly has an effect. 
We did not put it on; they put it on. That is the point. Further, on the half flagon - and it is really the bulk sale of wine in half flagons and flagons which has most been affected  - the excise imposed by the Government was 25c, which was immediately raised by the sellers to 45c a half flagon. So if there has been a considerable increase in price, and of course there has because these initial impositions have mark-ups- 
One of the things which struck one's mind while the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was speaking was the most extraordinary statement that this government, unlike a number of other governments, has managed to produce in this community both unemployment and inflation. I would suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he might take a look at the position in the United States of America in regard to great unemployment and increasing inflation, that he might take a look at the United Kingdom where the unemployment numbers are approaching -1 million and where the rate of inflation is greater than it has been here, and that he might take a look at Canada where the same situation prevails. One is quite certain that on comparisons - 1 confine myself to that - what has been happening in Australia is better than what has been happening in any of those nations to which I have referred. 
There has been talk about the Budget strategy and a suggestion that the Budget strategy was wrong and that perhaps the alleged problems in Australia's economy today stem from that last Budget. Let us have a look at what the situation was when that Budget was framed. We had - there is no gainsaying this - inflation at an accelerating rate because of cost-push factors, because of Arbitration Court awards, because of wages boards awards and because of negotiations carried out perhaps with a tinge of blackmail by unions or sections of unions with particular employers. We had that flowing into the economy. T wish to return to that later. But we also had savings at such a high rate and so much money available to be invested that there was a greater potential demand intiation than we had ever had in this nation before. The Government therefore took action which it can take through a Budget, to ensure that this demand inflation did not eventuate. Were it to have been imposed on cost-push inflation then that which we have suffered would be nothing compared with what would have occurred. 
 This demand inflation did not eventuate. It might not have eventuated even if the Government had not taken the action against it which it did. But it might have eventuated, and if it had it would have been immensely damaging. Can one imagine the attacks which would have been made on . a government, knowing the situation which . existed, if it had not taken some action and that great surge of demand inflation had come swelling into our economy? It was a prudent step to take. Even though the demand inflation did not eventuate, it was nonetheless prudent. So. there is no justification for attacking the Budget strategy as such and claiming that economic ills flow from it. 
We need to remember that Budgets brought in by any government can only partially affect inflation in this or any other nation. We are no longer in a situation where a so-called deflationary or inflationary Budget has a major effect on prices and on what is happening inside Australia. We can affect it marginally by budgetary action and this, of course, has been done.' Birt far more compelling and effective than budgetary action is the action of wage rises and price rises which following wage rises throughout this community. 
It has been suggested by the Leader of the Opposition that those who say this are engaged in a ritual incantation or are engaged in seeking to bash employees. I would hope that we on both sides of this House might approach this in a different atmosphere. -It is no ritual incantation to suggest that if wages rise to a much greater degree than productivity rises, then there will inevitably be inflation no matter what any government does. That is no ritual incantation; that is a mere fact. I do not think this can be gainsaid. This is no ritual incantation, nor is it an exercise in employee bashing. If one seeks genuinely, as I believe most members on both sides of the House would seek to do, to see that the buying power, and therefore the prosperity, of employees is increased rather than diminished, the suggestion that wage increases alone are beneficial is open to grave question. 
What great benefit does a man get if his wages are increased now by some arbitration award and, therefore, his new income attracts a higher rate of taxation if at the same time he is faced with a rise in the price of everything he has to buy? I think we are approaching the point - this could well be - where this could be selfdefeating and against the interests of the employees. There are arguments, I know, which can be advanced for and against the proposition I have just put forward, but there are arguments for what I have said and that they are not to be dismissed by being called ritual incantations or by having suggestions made that one is seeking to damage the wellbeing of employees. Nobody who has listened to what the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said today, and to the facts and figures which , have been put before us' by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  could fail to believe that overall - I emphasise that - the Australian economy is as sound and as good as any economy in the world. Nobody listening to those figures could, I think, have any impression but that the future of Australia and Australia's economy - again overall - is bright and that there are immense opportunities before us. This is clear from all that has been said. 
But if we are to make the most of those opportunities, and if we are to see that the ordinary people of Australia - the man and woman in the street- get .the benefits of making use of those opportunities, then we must combat the root cause of our troubles today which is inflation. That is the real problem before us. In previous times it was simpler and inflation could be put down to demand inflation, that is, to people calling for more goods than could be produced, and because they called for more goods than could be produced the prices of those goods rose. That was demand inflation and, therefore, one adopted the classic method of raising taxes or interest rates or increasing unspent Government surpluses in order to damp down that demand inflation. That was simple. But that is not what we have in this country at the moment. Our problems do not stem from demand inflation but rather - I come back to it - from cost inflation. There can be little pleasure in realising how strong and sound Australia's economy is. and in realising the great opportunities which lie before us, if we still have inside our country, as we have, pensioners, those on superannuation, those on fixed incomes of all kinds, lower paid members of the community, those struggling in rural areas against higher costs and lower returns, those seeking to develop export markets in manufactured goods - all those people feeling and knowing only too well that however strong our economy may be and however bright our future prospects are. their incomes are buying less each year due to cost inflation. If it is true that these things stem from cost inflation, what should we do about it? What can we do about it? 
I submit that we can do nothing about it until arbitration commissions - wage tribunals - are prepared to at least accept that they have a responsibility for the economic effects of their decisions. In tha past we have had the Arbitration Commission saying: 'We do not accept any economic responsibility. We do not fake that into consideration.' Yet it is the only body in Australia which can make such decisions because at the moment the Parliament cannot. lt is left to the Arbitration Commission, and if economic results are not taken into account by the Commission, then, we have an irresponsible section of the community. Having said what 1 believe to be the cause of our trouble, I want to come back to consider what we can do  to  remedy it. 1 do not think that one can expect the wage earning section of the community to pass a self-denying ordinance and say: 'We will not press for higher wages. The other sections of the economy can do what they like but we will not press for that.' We cannot expect that. 
But surely we can expect that the organised trade union leaders of Australia would be prepared to sit down with the organised leaders of industry, and with the Government, and try to work out a system or an agreement which could be seen to be fair to all whereby they would say: 'Because it is to our benefit - we trade unionists being affected by rising prices perhaps more than are other sections of the community - we will therefore, confine our requests for wage increases, for arguments sake, to the increases that can be shown to have occurred in the cost of living. We will do this for our part if you, for your part, will undertake, not that you will not raise prices, but that you will be able to justify any increases in prices that you make by showing that the wage component has increased, the raw material component has increased or that interest rates or whatever it might be have increased. If you can do that and we do the other, then we can bring about a pause, for some years at any rate, in this real root cause of oppression of some sections of our community.' This is not, attain, a matter of economic policy of a government to which this motion is directed, it is not a matter of budgetary action; it is a matter which is at the root of Australia's present problems, and it is one which I would hope members on both sides of this chamber would seek to bring about. ft is true, as an honourable member opposite mentioned, thai in speaking to this subject in Brisbane I did say that we cannot expect the unionists, even if they agree with the diagnosis that f have given here, to alone accept a self-denying ordinance but that v/e should sit. down with them, and when we sit down with them we should nol be concerned primarily with the question of sanctions or no sanctionsnot primarily, though that is an important matter - hut with whether an agreement can be reached whereby, for a term of years, application for wage rises shall be confined to increases to cover cost of living increases, and prices shall not be raised without some precess of price justification. Is anybody in this House prepared to say that if that could be brought about it would not be to the benefit of everybody in Australia and not just those whom the unions and the Opposition claim to represent, namely, the employees? I suggest that it would. I suggest that the workers of today would like nothing better than for there to be a cessation of price rises and a cessation of wage rises other than those required by cost of living adjustments. 
 The honourable member is not in touch with the people of Australia if he believes that that is not so. I do believe that prior to the discussions to which I have referred being held we should consider - I put it no higher than that - the possibility of asking the States whether they will agree to refer to the Commonwealth the powers over wages and prices which I am told the States have and the Commonwealth does not have. In that way discussions could be held at which both parties would be able to make undertakings - one with the other - instead of one party being unable to make an undertaking to the Commonwealth Government because it has no power to do so. I am not suggesting that whatI have put forward would be easy to achieve. I do not underestimate the difficulty of taking such a course of action. I do not underestimate . the problems which could arise and the possibility that those problems will not be overcome. But 1 think it ought to be tried in order to achieve both industrial peace and a diminution of inflation. 
We would be still left with the problem of what I shall call wildcat strikes, which also add to costs and cause inflation. By wildcat strikes I mean strikes which are called by shop stewards or a section of a union at a time when some large project which involves the pouring of much concrete is half completed. Unless the pouring of concrete is completed the concrete which has been poured and which solidifies has later to be chipped out and a new start has to be made. I mean strikes which suddenly occur at a factory that has an overseas contract which is of great importance to Australia but which carries a penalty if it is not completed in time; and not those employed in the factory but perhaps the crane drivers or theli ft drivers or a small section in that factory goes out on strike and the rest are unable to work and the owner is faced with the alternative of ruin or capitulation. They are really damaging strikes. They really add to the cost of everything. They really add to the burdens on the employees whom the Leader of the Opposition says the Government is trying to bash when it tries to take them on. I believe that the unions, the Government, the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Labor Party should be at one in seeing that that type of strike is not successful. On the broad union side, althoughI think sanctions are required as an ultimate resource,I should hope that with common sense and a realisation of common interest such sanctions as were retained would be in the background as a very last resort for use when everything else has failed and not until then. But I do believe that these sanctions need to exist. 
I have not heard a  speaker  on the Opposition side of the House attack the positive steps which the Government has taken in other fields to combat inflation. Nobody said that it was wrong for us to bring in resale price maintenance. Nobody attacked us for introducing the new restrictive trade practices legislation, which is to be stronger than the old Trade Practices Act, and the extension which has been made possibleby the concrete pipes case. Nobody has attacked us for a reduction in the growth of public expenditure, which is growing but at a smaller rate than the rate at which it grew last year. Nobody has attacked us for recently lowering interest rates. Nobody has attacked us for suggesting a long term approach to the problem by way of a tariff review. Yet these are all economic measures which have been taken by the Government and all of them have had a salutary and good effect on the economy, though they have no overcome the problems of those individuals to whom I have referred. But they are not Party problems nor budgetary problems but parliamentary problems in relation to which we on both sides of the House should set some kind of example to the unions and the industrialists by not scoring political points on every side. The cost-push problem is the root cause of inflation. Let us overcome that problem in fairness to all. Let us not expect the Government to do it by budgetary measures. If we can do that the future which is a potential for us will be a reality. 
I am very glad that the Opposition has now decided that this is a matter of urgency and of great national importance. Indeed it is, and a Bill should have been passed by this Parliament months ago. It would have been passed by this Parliament months ago if the Opposition had not been so opportunist and had not taken the opportunity to support a move by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  against myself and the Government on the grounds that they had not delayed the matter farther by having more discussions with the States before the Bill was brought in. Indeed. I think that the attitude adopted by the Opposition at that time was a subjugation of national interest to the purest ephemeral political tactics. In doing so the Opposition did the Government a disservice; it did this nation a disservice. 
It is urgent and it is important that this matter should be cleared up and it cannot, in my view, be presented in any way as a party matter. There is no ideological difference here clearly delineated between the parties. There is no basic different political approach. There is nothing that can be represented as something that involves budgetary expenditure by the Government. There is nothing that can be represented as involving budgetary expenditure by the Government. It is purely a matter of where Australia's interests lie. 
In support of the contention that it is by no means a Party matter, I reiterate that the proposition that this should be cleared up was adopted by a national Liberal government every member of which accepted that proposition. We have on record an interim report from the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources which states that it is against the national interests for this matter to remain unresolved. I think the  Chairman  of the Committee was the present AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  Certainly he was a signatory to that report. We have on record the evidence of the present Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  saying how wrong it is for the present confused situation to continue and we have the Bill which was introduced into this House so ably by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on behalf of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Finally, we have the statement on behalf of the Government, made from the Throne, that this legislation would be passed during this session of Parliament. With that record, who can say that this is in fact a Party matter? It is a matter which, if people have views on it, I should like to see debated in this Parliament and voted on in this Parliament with a free vote. Surely if ever there was a matter which should be so voted on, it is this. 
We cannot continue in a situation where people do not know what the law is and where sovereignty resides. As a member of the Opposition said, it is ludicrous for us to be the only country in the world that does not in fact know who has sovereignty over the waters which wash its shores. This matter involves fisheries and fisheries protection. It involves conservation of those things which grow on the sea bed. It involves control of pollution. If a tanker is to blow its oil out off the coast of New South Wales within the 3-mile limit, who has jurisdiction? Who can punish those responsible? If it is done off the coast of Victoria, is it a different penalty? Surely wherever it is blown it pollutes Australia, not just a part of a State. It involves mining and conservation, not only mining of such magnificent national monuments as the Great Barrier Reef but also on the sea bed itself. It involves the question of whether it is wise to take action which may involve changes in currents and in ecology and whether it is wise to leave these matters to State governments rather than to a national government. No-one can tell me that this can be resolved by uniform legislation, because uniform legislation remains uniform only until one party changes the legislation which its Parliament has passed. There needs to be a national authority in these matters. It also involves matters of defence - it involves naval matters and that involves control of devices which may be put on the sea bed either for offensive or for defensive purposes. As I said, no-one knows who has authority in these affairs. 
There are at least 3 schools of thought on this matter. One claims, as I do, that the Commonwealth has sovereignty in law from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. Another school of thought claims that the States have sovereignty from low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. They do not confine their claims to the territorial sea. Yet another claims that the States have sovereignty from low water mark to the limit of the territorial sea - at present 3 miles - and the Commonwealth has authority after that. But nobody knows and nobody will know what the position will be when and if the territorial sea limit is moved from 3 miles to 12 miles. This will confuse the matter even more. Will the States then have authority from low water mark to the 3-mile limit and the Commonwealth from the 3-mile limit to the outer limit of the continental shelf, or will there be a still more disputed area between the 3-mile limit and the new 12- mile limit? The possibility of confusion and lack of any legal action being able to be taken to conserve and to look after our national interest will grow and grow until this is resolved. 
I am very taken with the argument, as I understand it, that there is an unbroken continental shelf between the coast of Australia and Indonesia. At some stage, there will need to be an agreement as to just where the sovereignty of whoever it is in Australia extends to and where the sovereignty of Indonesia extends to. But who knows who is going to do it for Australia? Is it going to be the national Government or will it be the Western Australian Government for part of it and the Northern Territory Administration for part of it? Will it be the same between ourselves and Papua New Guinea, which is advancing so rapidly towards independence? Are arrangements concerning that continental shelf to be carried out only by Queensland, as they would be if Queensland had the sovereignty over those areas as it claims, or will the national Government, as it ought to, clearly have sovereignty in these affairs? I am not going to vote for the suspension of Standing Orders and to take the business out of the hands of the Government at this time. However, I noted that there was no nodding of the head by the Minister for National Development in response to the appeals of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and I think therefore that the Minister and all concerned should know that if it appears that this Bill is not ever going to be brought on in this Parliament, as it was promised that it would be, then I will cast whatever vote is open to me to cast to endeavour to see that it is brought on, debated and passed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been informed that since I spoke some few sentences before securing the adjournment of this debate it is necessary for me to ask for leave to make a statement on the matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a matter of misrepresentation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister noticed a series of tents pitched on a public lawn in front of Parliament House? Is this area of public lawn open for anyone to camp on at will? If so, will that situation be changed forthwith? If not, will the group now camped in front of Parliament House and any other groups who seek to camp there be removed? Will such future camps be prevented so that the public as a whole may enjoy the environs of Parliament House freely and so that the lawns themselves will not be damaged? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This motion of no confidence is directed ostensibly at the various interpretations which can be placed upon answers given in this House. It is directed ostensibly to that. But I think there are more significant undertones to the motion than appear in the wording of the motion. Very briefly, I want to say something about my own approach to this problem. This is a motion moved against an individual. It is true that that individual is the Leader of the Government. But the motion is not directed at the Government; it is directed at the individual. This is a practice which appears to have been increasing in this Parliament over recent years. It is a practice which I feel ought to be diminished if we are to follow proper parliamentary procedures. It is a practice which ought to be deplored. 
That is my opinion. The right to move a motion of dissent against a government is, of course, one which all members of this House would cherish and protect. Of course one could not interfere with the right to move a motion of censure against an individual. But I feel that all too often the moving of censure motions against individuals is motivated more by expediency than by real principle, more by an attempt to embarrass politically rather than a true belief that they can change a government. 
On my own experience, I believe that those in the Opposition who adopt these tactics do so for one reason only. It is that they hope to be able to attract the support of a handful of private members who have been elected to support the Government and who disagree on some particular measure or dislike some individual member personally. Therefore, the Opposition can hope that they may cause them to be disaffected. That is the purpose of this motion and of others. I think it is a bad principle to adopt. I think it can react against the national interest. This was the tactic that was adopted when the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill was before the House. The result was that a Bill of great significance to Australia's futture and a Bill which was supported by the overwhelming majority of the members of this House, taking both sides together, is still because of this tactic, not an Act but merely a Bill. I think the nation is the poorer for it. This was the same kind of tactic that was adopted by the Opposition last March. It is not one which I would like to see continued in this Parliament for those purposes. I do not believe for one minute that the private members who presently support the Government would be inveigled into supporting the motion which is now before the House. I will not, and I have given the reasons why I will not. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. As I recall, the right honourable gentleman informed the House last August that he intended to refer to the Tariff Board the question of protection to the Australian film industry. Can he inform the House whether any terms of reference have as yet been drafted or sent to the Tariff Board on this matter? 
I had not intended to enter into this discussion until I heard one or two comments which were made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I should make it clear at once that, under no circumstances, can this action be described as being indicative of the Government's not taking proper steps to protect Australian assets. Indeed, as a result of the action which was taken, we have the ordinance before us today, and the action which was taken was the best possible way in which to protect Australian assets and the value of the shares in which Australians had invested. 
Let me read this against the background of the Mineral Securities Australia Ltd crash because it is against that background that we must consider what has happened. If members of the House cast their minds back, they will remember that Minsec, an empire holding shares in many companies - controlling a number and owning a number - suddenly found itself bankrupt. At that stage, it had borrowed large sums of money and had given as collateral shares in the companies which it owned. So, there were a number of creditors throughout Australia who were fully secured, and a number who were not secured, who owned shares in a number of mineral companies which were substantially Australian companies. 
In those circumstances, with the borrower having gone bankrupt, one would normally expect that the creditors would immediately take steps to recover the money owing to them by selling the shares that they held as collateral. This would have been the normal course of events. However, if that had happened, vast numbers of shares would have been thrown on the market at one time, the value of the shares on the stock exchange would have collapsed and, indeed, it would have been easy for overseas interests to buy shares at minimal prices because of the collapse of the market. I am not speaking of these particular shares which were protected but of a number of other companies in which shares were held. So, it was necessary for the Government to try to do what it could to prevent this occurring. Enough damage had already been done to overseas confidence, ft was essential that there should not be a crash in the value of the shares which were held by Minsec and which had been given as security for borrowings. That required a number of actions. 
The first action which the Government thought it should take was to do all it could to expedite a plan worked out by a consortium led by  Sir Val  Duncan from overseas and supported by  Mr Peter  Looker  of the stock  exchange in Australia. It is necessary to see the plan in full detail to see how it did protect the ownership of Australian assets because what was proposed by these leaders of the consortium was that there should be a number of significant companies which should raise a sum of X millions of dollars and provide that to the Minsec Liquidator who would then pay off those who held the shares in collateral and the consortium would itself take those shares as collateral. But part of the agreement was that it would not keep those shares, tha' the shares would be in the hands of the Liquidator to be sold in an orderly and progressive way and enable the capital sum proposed by the consortium to be repaid. 
There could have been no better way ro protect Australian ownership in those shares or to protect the stock exchange value of those shares than that proposal. I remember calling together in Kirribilli a vast number of representatives of the financial world including the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Australian Industries Development Corporation and a number of other significant companies in an endeavour to work out this plan. In fact the consortium's plan did not come to fruition but what it did do was to secure time. Whilst those discussions were going on people were not panicking; people were not throwing their shares upon the market and there was no crash in the value of those shares. The Liquidator was able, T think partly as a result of this, to see that there was an orderly sale of the assets which Minsec had put out as collateral and there was not a collapse. 
One of the parcels of shares with which we are concerned involves Kathleen Investments Australia L:d and Queensland Mines Ltd. They were protected by an ordinance, as the honourable member for Dawson has said, to the extent that overseas owners could not have more 'han 15 per cent of those shares. The Liquidator sought to dispose of those shares, again at a fair and proper market price. Let us remember that there were a number of other share; in Australian hands and a crash of 15 per cent could well have affected the shares that still remained in Australian hands as far as value was concerned. So the Liquidator called for tenders. Noranda Australia acted in perfectly good faith throughout. It put in a bid. lt sought to ensure that it was not transgressing the ordinance. Noranda was told by the Government that if it did transgress the ordinance in a reasonable way for a reasonable time that was no reason why the whole deal should fall through. Well, it did transgress the ordinance - not by much, but it did. Therefore this new ordinance is necessary. 
The only points I wish to make in this contribution are that read against the background of all that happened this is not an indication that the Government was not seeking to protect Australian ownership and assets. Ra'.her it is an indication that proper and successful steps were taken which did protect Australian ownership and assets and which in the course of time will return ownership even in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments to the IS per cent which is the utmost that was allowed. I do not concern myself with the general comments made by the honourable member for Dawson but I do say that the action taken here today is action taken to rectify a previous action which was to the benefit of Australia and for which I think the Government, Noranda and the liquidator ought to be congratulated. 
I think that all honourable members from both sides of the House would probably agree with me that what we are considering is a matter of public importance. The subject matter refers to: 
The increasing control of Australian industries and resources by foreign companies. 
There can be no doubt in my mind that the control of Australian industries and resources has been increasing and there is little doubt that it should be diminished. I do not think, however, that the bringing forward of this matter in this way will help us to solve the problem of how to attain the goal which most of us would want to attain. After all, I understand that we are confined to 3 speakers from each side, a number of whom are limited to 10 minutes only. This is a matter of such great national importance that it is paying it scant attention to deal with it in this way. 
We have been told by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that there will be brought down to this House a White Paper prepared by the Treasury and by the Reserve Bank which will go in depth into the actual situation which exists today and which will propose arguments for and against possible actions which the Government might take. On previous occasions I have pointed out that unless the Treasury and the Reserve Bank have abandoned the kind of approach to this problem that they made some time ago, of which I had full knowledge, then setting them up to write a paper on what action should be taken to restrain foreign investment is like asking a committee of Tatts bookmakers to write a treatise on the evils of gambling. But we will have to wait until the White Paper arrives before we can really go into it. 
The point is that we are going to get a fully considered paper and each one of us in this House will have a full opportunity, with unlimited debate, to put forward our proposals and our suggestions and to analyse, accept or rebuke the proposals of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank on this most important matter. I believe that this is where the benefit will come rather than by a discussion of this kind in this truncated way. I would hope, too, that when we do enter into such a discussion on these matters we will be able to do so without too partisan an approach from either side of the House. After all, as the Treasurer has pointed out in a previous speech and in the House today, there are arguments for foreign investment - benefits flowing from foreign investment - and there are arguments against foreign investment. Costs are associated with foreign investment. It is not a simple matter and it not being a simple matter it should be one to which honourable members in this House can apply their intelligence without impugning people on the other side of the House or, indeed, arguments in which they do not believe. This is how I think this chamber should approach this most complex and important matter. 
For my own part I think that all I propose to say at this stage is this: We need an inflow of overseas capital. Australia has benefited in the past from an inflow of overseas capital and it would be a brave man and, I think, a not very good economist who would suggest that we should have no inflow of overseas capital and should not benefit from the development which takes place as a result of it. I can find no great objection, if there are properties in the Northern Territory or in the north of Queensland which are open for development, in which Australians are able to put money but will not, to overseas capita] coming in and improving those properties, increasing production, turning off more and more cattle from them and earning more foreign exchange. The position would be that Australians had a chance but did not take it. The property will always be there and at some stage will come back. 
Nor can I find any great objection to overseas firms taking over Australian companies if they are inefficient, if they are badly run and if they are managed in a way which is not in the best interests of Australia. But I can find great objection to overseas companies moving in and buying up efficient and effective Australian companies, perhaps because their shares on the stock exchange have sunk to a level where the assets of the companies are greater than the money that has to be paid for the shares. I can find great objection to that and I know that it does on occasions lead to what the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said about franchise arrangements which limit the opportunities of Australian exports. I know that that is true. I know it is true, too, that in the film industry nearly all our film theatres are owned by overseas interests and they will not allow an Australian film to be shown. It has to be shown on the circuit around the country and the few independent theatres which remain are finding it more and more difficult to stay in business because the overseas-owned film chains are refusing to provide them with overseas films, so here there will eventually be a monopoly. This is the sort of intervention which is greatly to Australia's discredit and which we could act against. 
I further say that it is essential if we are to . take any action in this matter that first we should have this discussion on the White Paper and, secondly, that we must get the information to which the Treasurer referred, which we have not previously had but which we must have if we are to approach this problem. That information is: Where is this money coming from? From what countries is it coming? What is it to be invested in when it arrives in Australia? I am not talking of every silly little deal; I am talking about large amounts of proposed investment. We should know that. I am afraid I cannot agree with the Treasurer's approach on borrowings. What does 'borrowings' mean? Who is borrowing - the merchant banks from their parent companies abroad in order to take up equity in Australian firms or to buy portfolios of investment? We do not know. This is the kind of information we must have and I think it is to the Government's credit that it is seeking now to get this informa tion. But it must be got promptly and precisely and kept up to date if this matter is to be really tackled and really overcome. 
The second essential approach and one which it appears to me the Government is now following is to abandon what used to be some years ago an old Treasury dictum that any questioning of foreign capital would drive foreign capital away, frighten it and keep it out of Australia. We must abandon that and adopt an approach that we are an Australian Government, that we have information as to where money is coming from and where it is going. There will be some instances when we do not want it to go into particular areas and in those instances we will say to those who propose to provide that money: 'Thank you very much. We do not want it. Keep it. We do not want capital coming in for that purpose.' This is a governmental approach  -  I am not in any way attempting to work it out in any detail - which is essential and, judging from the Treasurer's speech today, one which we are now accepting. If these 2 approaches are made then we can act in accordance with Australia's interests, as the honourable member for Cunningham suggested. It is in our interest in many cases to have overseas investment for development which would not otherwise take place or which would not otherwise take place for decades, lt is not in our interest to have money coming in for the taking over of development which has already occurred or if it comes in in such large proportions that the cost of servicing it is greater than the economy should bear. These are matters that we can discuss when we get a fully-argued paper from the Treasury. These are matters on which there will be a good deal of agreement in many areas, and disagreement in others as there ought to be. But certainly in my view this whole question is a matter of the utmost importance to Australia's future. 
If I may say one more word before I sit down, this is no recent conversion. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was less than fair when he said I had done nothing about this before. We did, after all, lay down new guide lines to provide incentive for Australian equity. We did protect the Mutual Life and Citizens' 
Assurance Co. Ltd and Nabarlek. We did bring in the Australian Industry Development Corporation. We did take some action and I trust that this Government from what it is saying and doing will continue that action. 
I commend the Government on the presentation to this House of . the White Paper on defence and on some of the comments which were made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  when that Paper was presented. I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of (he Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that this provides us with a proper basis for discussion of what we should do to defend Australia, though in many ways I disagree with other things that he said tonight. But one thing that I am pleased about is that the presentation of his Paper from the advisers of the Government should, I hope once and for all, put paid to the silly discussion of whether we should have Fortress Australia or forward defence. 
Clearly what has been presented by our advisers is that what we need for the defence of Australia is, firstly, a base in Australia which can be properly defended and, secondly, a capacity to send from that base forces which can operate in cooperation with other countries in the region in order to help them to repel aggression so that aggression will be held farther away from our shores. There is no confrontation here as there has been in these arguments in the past between Fortress Australia and forward defence; nor should there be because history has shown us in wars over the years that Napoleon was defeated not by forward defence but by Fortress Britain being able to send forces abroad to overcome a dictator; and that Hitler was defeated not by forward defence but by 
Fortress Britain being able to build up its forces and to build up capacity, and then to go forward and overthrow the dictator in areas abroad. Therefore I believe, and I make no apology for this, that there is some measure of agreement now, which there was not before, between the approach of the Opposition and that of the Government, that what we need is a capacity to defend ourselves, to defend our base and, from that base, to support regional defence. 
However, there is one significant difference between us in that I think that at least now and for some few years into the future  -  I do not know how many - it will be of advantage to us to maintain in the region in which we are concerned an Australian contingent or an Australian military presence. We have been told by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that those forces would not be withdrawn, but I am not prepared to accept that as a statement of the Opposition's policy. 
Because of other statements that have been made by other members of the Opposition. The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  will remember that in the 1966 election campaign he made statements on defence, that his  Deputy  Leader made statements on defence, and that they were quite far apart from each other. Therefore, who are we to believe in this matter? 
I wish to revert to some of the remarks which were made in this House tonight by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who is not here. 
Good. I am glad that he has come back, because I think that the matters which he raised need to be cleared up and I think that the implicit accusations which he made cannot be sustained and ought to be rejected. What in fact the honourable member for Sturt has done tonight is to make an attack upon our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and to suggest that what he has said in this House is inaccurate. I do not believe that that is so, and I do not believe that the honourable member for Sturt produced any arguments to show that this is so. The. whole matter arose from a question at question time by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and an answer which was then given. The honourable member for Sturt suggests that this answer was inaccurate. He has indicated to the House, tonight that a  Mr Jonathan  Gaul rang up a  Mr Terry  Colhoun who runs the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Canberra, being the Canberra Manager of the ABC, and complained that it was derogatory of the Prime Minister that  Mr Whitlam  should appear on a programme at the same time as the Prime Minister did. 
I do not know, but this is what I understood the honourable member for Sturt had said. It does not matter whether he said it or not because this is common gossip in the Press gallery, and I assume that the honourable member takes notice of this bazaar gossip. Did  Mr Gaul,  as has been suggested, say at the same time to  Mr Colhoun  that the Prime Minister would never appear on a programme again with the interviewer from the ABC? 
Did he? Is this suggested, because it is common gossip in the Press gallery that this was said, and this must be the basis of the speech that was made by the honourable member for Sturt today. I cannot believe that there is any truth in these kinds of accusations. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I cannot believe that there is any truth in this suggestion that was alleged to have been made by a  Mr Gaul,  who was a journalist working for Maxwell Newton at some stage and is now working for the Government, as I understand it, that the Prime Minister would never appear with  Mr Richard  Carleton again on a programme of this kind. I think that it is most improper for the honourable member for Sturt to make these kinds of suggestion without any basic evidence at all to sustain them in this House of the Commonwealth Parliament. I believe that there is no truth whatever in it, and I hope and expect and believe that tomorrow the Prime Minister will be able to stand up in this Parliament, and reject completely the accusations and the implications which have been made by the honourable member for Sturt because I think that there can be no indication of accuracy whatsoever in what he has said. There has been nothing presented to us to sustain this kind of suggestion. I really do wish to say this: It is improper. I have sustained more than any other person has in this Parliament, these kinds of inaccurate accusations. 
I have. 
Therefore, speaking from that point of view, I believe that this should not happen. 
All I ask is a fair go, too. I think it is most improper for these kinds of accusations, without any evidence whatsoever to sustain or support them, without anything brought forward to indicate that they are right, to be made against an individual in this Parliament. I suspect that they are wrong. I believe that they will be able to be completely destroyed tomorrow. I hope that if that is so- as I believe it will be - the honourable member for Sturt will rise in his place and apologise for what he has said about the Prime Minister and what he has indicated about the Prime Minuter tonight. 
Motion (by  Mr Fox)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation, believing that I have been misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and/ or the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the takeover bid for Rocla Pipes Ltd made by Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd? ls Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd owned as to 49.9 per cent by overseas interests? Should the takeover be successful will it not result in sufficient overseas ownership in the new corporation to be able to control it effectively? Will it not also result in the avoidance of the present competition between the 2 pipe making industries concerned? If these propositions are correct, does the Government consider this to be in the public interest? If not, (a) can the Government act to prevent this takeover, and (b) will it consider doing so? 
Let me, at the outset, say that I do believe that this question of sovereignty over Australia's national seas ought to be resolved. I believe it is of great national and international importance, as the spokesman for the previous Government has said, that it should be resolved. However, I do not believe that it is necessary for this matter of sovereignty to be resolved before the Bill to establish the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville is passed. This Institute, which also was promised to the Parliament in a speech made by the GovernorGeneral on behalf of the Government which I led, is clearly going to be of great advantage to science not only in Australia, but to scientific activity throughout the world. It will push back the boundaries of knowledge. It will enable us to understand more easily the processes that go on in the ocean depths, and to become more able to control or to affect that great part of the world which is covered by ocean waters. 
It will also - and this is a secondary matter but one not to be completely lost sight of - be of great assistance to the city of Townsville itself if this Institute is established, particularly at this time, as quickly as possible while that city is still suffering from the disadvantages of the cyclone that hit it. Let us assume, just for the sake of argument, that the States do have that power over the territorial sea and the continental shelf which they claim. Let us assume that the matter has gone to the High Court and that the High Court has said the States do have this authority. Would we then refuse to establish this Institute? Would we say that because of this we will not go ahead and establish the Institute? Of course we would not. No matter who had the powers eventually over this area of water and sea, the Institute of Marine Science ought to be established, and I am sure that when members of the Opposition put their minds to this they will agree that that is so. 
If that is so, then it is necessary for the question of sovereignty to be first established before the Institute of Marine Science is established because wherever sovereignty lies that Institute should go ahead. Therefore, that is all I have to say on this matter. I believe it shows quite conclusively that the Opposition has not made out any case to establish that it is necessary to postpone the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science until such time as the very important question of sovereignty is resolved, because however it is resolved the Institute should go ahead. That is my position. 

 - Mr Speaker, I give notice that contingent upon the conclusion of the consideration of Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) 1972-73 I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be  suspended  as would prevent the debate on the second reading of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970 being resumed forthwith. 
May I say at the beginning how pleased I am that this debate is taking place on this Bill of such significance to the nation. I am glad that the Parliament is now considering it. I perhaps, if I may be permitted to say so, have more of an individual interest in this Bill and in what it can do for Australia than anybody else in this Parliament, for it was the Governor-General, during the time when I was Prime Minister, who in his speech from the throne said: 
My Government will introduce legislation forthwith to establish an Institute of Marine Science at Townsville. . . . 
It was the view of my Government that it would serve Australia's national and international interest to have the legal position resolved. In order that this could happen my Government would ask the Parliament to pass legislation to assert and establish what the Commonwealth conceives to be its legal rights. 
That speech was given by the GovernorGeneral but it was written by me. It was written with the full authority of the Cabinet. I feel some personal responsibility for having made to the Parliament the statement of intentions of this kind. The state ment in the speech was, as has been pointed out before, borne out by the interim report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources which, after considerable investigation, said: 
That, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
The report is signed by I. J. Greenwood, the present Attorney-General in the present Government. There has been a subsequent and wider Senate report and that, too, repeats the findings of the previous occasion. So, there is a strong body of opinion - there always was, and it is still continuing - that it is not in the national interest that this matter should remain unresolved and, as has been pointed out, the object of this Bill is solely to resolve that which at present is unresolved. There are good reasons for this, some of which have been advanced by speakers on both sides of this House and others which I hope to advance at a later stage. 
However, I do not believe that it would be right for me not to point out that, although the Opposition now claims that this is a matter of high national politics - I agree unreservedly that it is a matter of high national politics - and although members of the Opposition say that the BiD should have been passed long ago, it is nevertheless true that by this stage this Bill would have been law, the case would have been tested in the High Court of Australia and the matter would have been resolved if the Opposition had not abandoned the concept of high national politics embodied in the Bill in order to seek some small, petty, temporary political advantage by moving a censure motion because it knew that there were 2 or 3 dissatisfied members on our side. I think that it is wrong to suggest that the responsibility for this Bill not being passed rests on the Government. That responsibility must be shared on the record by the Opposition and I think that the fact should be brought out. Indeed, as the Opposition acted then, so I think there was an attempt last night to act again in the same way. I hope that those sorts of approaches will not continue on either side of the House, because it is a matter of high national politics. Let us not play around with this matter, seeking to achieve some temporary political advantage .me way or the other by House tricks. 
We have heard some of the reasons why this Bill should be passed and why it is necessary to resolve matters. I think the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred to the question of fisheries. This obviously is of great importance to Australia's future and to the .preservation of the food supplies around Australia's coast. Is this to be under the control .rf one government from low water mark to 3 miles and of another government from 3 miles out to the end of the continental shelf, or is it to be under the control of one government for 12 miles, if the width of the territorial sea were opened, and then of another government out to the limits of the continental shelf? What kind of division is to occur, unless the matter of sovereignty is resolved one way or the other? 
As has been pointed out, we are approaching an international conference on this matter and fisheries is one significant matter which will be discussed. But there are others. There is the conservation of the seabed. It may well be that some company wants to mine - it could even be mining already - some dead coral reef somewhere off the coast of Queensland or Western Australia and bring the aggregate ashore. Who knows what the destruction of a reef - even a dead reef - will do to the currents that flow around in that area? It could change them. It could, therefore, throw out of balance the whole ecological structure of that area. If damage is done to an area, say, in the Great Barrier Reef, the damage is done to the whole of Australia and not just those who compose the Government of Queensland. 
We are worried, as all countries are worried, by the pollution of our sea waters. That pollution comes not only from the effluent from rivers which flow into the sea but also from the dumping of oil and waste by tankers which pump overboard the oil not required. Are we to be protected against that kind of damage by attempting to get 7 different kinds of law or 7 laws from 7 different parliaments? It is sometimes suggested that we could achieve uniform law on this matter - uniform law under which prosecutions could be launched, with uniform penalties. So we could, after enormous expense of time; but how long will it remain uniform when any one of those governments can amend the law at any time and make it not uniform? If a tanker which is close to the border between New South Wales and Victoria pumps large quantities of oil into Victorian waters and the oil floats to shore and pollutes the beaches in New South Wales, what a Gilbertian situation it would be to try to discover who had the right to prosecute and who had the right to gain damages. Surely there should be one national law protecting the nation's shores against pollution and one responsible authority which can be held responsible by the people for what it does or does not do. 
Other questions also have been adverted to. Who is to decide where the boundary of the continental shelf between Australia and an independent Papua New Guinea lies? If the States' claims that they have sovereignty over the territorial sea and the continental shelf - this is what they do claim - should turn out to be true, we would know who has the responsibility and I would hope that the people of Australia would seek to change it. However, at the moment, we do not know. If it is suggested that the Commonwealth has the right to decide that boundary, that decision could be contested until the matter was resolved one way or the other in the only way it could be - in the High Court of Australia. 
I am given to understand - I cannot say whether this is completely accurate - that the Parliament of Western Australia has passed an Act proclaiming the sovereignty of Western Australia over the territorial sea and continental shelf off Western Australia. There is at this moment some discussion between Indonesia and, I understand, the Australian Government - certainly between Indonesia and a government in Australia - as to just who has the right to issue permits to drill for oil and in what areas. Will this be able to continue when one State claims that it has a sovereignty? Is this not a matter which should be resolved, if there is an unbroken continental shelf stretching between Australia and any of the contiguous countries near Australia? If we go to the international conference and the territorial sea boundaries are changed from  3  to  12  miles, from  3  to  20  miles or whatever it may be, we must know that our representatives who are at that conference are speaking for this nation with the authority of national law to back them up in what they say and that there can be no question of whether they have or have not the rights. 
These are many of the reasons why this legislation should be passed and why this matter which is unresolved should be resolved. But what reasons have been advanced for not passing the legislation? 
In the whole of the time since this legislation was brought down I have not heard one reason or one argument advanced which says that the national Government should not have control of the. seas around Australia. Nobody has put forward a case saying that that would be wrong or injurious. There have been no arguments that I have heard along those lines. The reason for not putting the matter on the statute book is quite clearly a desire not to disturb the susceptibilities of State governments. I do not write that desire off as being something which we should ignore altogether but that is the only argument that T have heard: Do not let us disturb the State gov.ernments on this matter. I believe that at some stage it will be necessary for this Parliament to decide whether the national interests which have been adumbrated by speakers on this side of the House and on the other side of the House are sufficiently strong to require us to take the step even if it might upset for a while some members of some State governments. 
I am told that there should be negotiation. There is room for negotiation after sovereignty has been established, just as there was room for negotiation and agreement over the question of the treatment of Aboriginals after the Commonwealth received sovereign power over Aboriginals in Australia. I am told that the High Court cannot in any case pass a judgment on this matter until after the next elections. All that means to me is that it will take a long time for the High Court to reach a judgment. Whenever any legislation is passed it will take a long time for the court to reach a judgment, therefore the sooner the legislation is passed the better because it will mean the sooner we will come to that res olution to which we must ultimately come. We are told now by the Government that it needs more time, for negotiation with the States in order to try to reach agreement in part or in whole on matters put forward in this Bill. Those negotiations are going on in the Attorney-General's group, the minerals group and ultimately, I understand, between the Prime Minister and the Premiers. 
If I do take leave to doubt whether the question of sovereignty can ever be resolved by negotiation - and I do take leave to doubt that as I do not believe it can - nevertheless if the Government says it wants more time at least to narrow down the field of disagreement to the utmost point, then I believe the Government should be. given the time for which it asks. This is another reason why I am glad that this Bill has come down now, because it can be debated now. It will not be concluded now because the Government wants extra time. That extra time I think we should give to the Government but we should not permit the Bill to be shelved indefinitely. We should not permit it to go into the limbo of forgotten things. Time for negotiation of course, but a continuing interest in the Bill itself in the parliament and ultimately passing the Bill is necessary. That is the course which I would propose should be adopted. Of course, give time, to the Government for negotiation but seek to ensure that the Bill is hot completely forgotten and that in this Parliament we hear from time to time of the progress of such negotiations. 
I have only this to add: There have been, as I pointed out at the beginning,  2  occasions on which this matter of high national politics was sullied by an approach which was petty, politics, an approach seeking to use dissatisfied people on this side of the House, an approach seeking and hoping that some of us who now wish this Bill to be passed, subject to time being given to the Government, could be induced to help the Labor Party in this House and to give it headlines in the newspapers. For my own part I would wish to say this: Though I attach the greatest importance to this Bill and though I attach the greatest importance to its becoming law and though I think the national interests will not be served until it does become law, yet I attach even more importance to a Liberal-Country Party coalition remaining in Government. I think the national interest will be better served by the Opposition not coming into government and that is a matter which goes not only to this Bill but to all the Bills and all the actions which a Government should take. 
There is no point in seeking to try to get some small advantage which might help an Opposition come into Government because in the fields of defence of Australia and in the fields of the good government of Australia and in the fields of having a government which is not controlled by outside bodies and in the fields of having a government which is not controlled by militant left wing unions, this is the most important thing but it does not obviate the requirement that we, being a LiberalCountry Party in government, should continue in government but should also seek to serve the national interests and consider these matters as they have been put and consider this matter as it has been put, and carry it to a conclusion, subject to the Government's having a reasonable time and being able to make reasonable arguments in return to those of us who wish this Bill to become law. The ultimate purpose of myself is to see that this LiberalCountry Party Government remains in power. A subsidiary purpose but none the less an important one is to seek to persuade it to take actions such as this which are in the national interest and which many of those in the present Government agreed were in the national interest. I hope therefore that this will happen. 
The reason why this morning I moved a contingent notice of motion that in the Budget session at some stage this debate should be resumed was that this does give time - months - to the Government to carry on the negotiations which are being carried on and we will then be able to discuss the matter again in the light of those discussions with the States, and be able to have told to us what the position then is. That will prevent the matter just not being discussed at all in the Parliament for the rest of this session. What will happen when it is discussed must depend on the circumstances at that time but I believe the discussion itself is vital and I would hope that the Government itself believes that the discussion, carrying on and reporting of these negotiations is also of great significance. I commend the Bill and trust that it will in time become law. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister who will recall that a few days ago I asked a question about the Government's attitude to the proposed takeover of Rocla Pipes Ltd by Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd. This takeover or merger, if consummated, would appear to reduce or eliminate competition and to result in substantial overseas ownership of the merged company. In view of the statement made yesterday by the Government on mergers, will the Government examine this proposal to ascertain whether it would contravene the announced intentions of the Government and, if it would do so, in advance of the passing of any proposed legislation will the Government take such action as it can to discourage or prevent the takeover? 
The motion before us is that the House has no confidence in the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  because of his handling of the dispute in removing the tent city outside Parliament House. That is the only motion before us. As an honourable member on the other side said, it has nothing to do with land rights and nothing to do with anything other than the Minister's propriety in handling the erection of tents in front of Parliament House. The Minister is attacked on 2 grounds, apparently: Firstly, that he removed those tents and, secondly, the way in which he removed them. I want to examine them separately because 1 believe this to be the fact: Either the lawns in front of Parliament House are a public preserve or they are a preserve on which people can erect tents, park caravans, sleep in sleeping bags and do anything of that kind which they like. They are one or the other. If they are to be areas which are reserved for the public, which the public can walk over and enjoy and on which the public can exercise their rights, then the rights of the public will be infringed if any organisation is allowed to set up tents, to park caravans or in any other way to impede the rights of the public on those reserves. 
In the instance which is under discussion the rights of the public were definitely infringed on one occasion when some members of the public were moved on from the vicinity of the King George V Memorial by some of the individuals who were camped in the tents outside Parliament House. Clearly if these lawns are to be preserved - I believe they should be, otherwise we will have a tent city in which any organisation can erect a tent and this would be an unsanitary and unhealthy public eyesore and would obstruct the rights of the public - action has to be taken. Either they are public lawns or they are areas on which people can park. If they are to be areas on which people can park, then anybody can erect a tent city whether they are Aborigines or members of the Returned Services League or the Country Women's Association. I believe that the Minister would move any of them on and I believe that he would be right in doing so. 1 am sure that he would move them on even if they were members of the Victorian Farmers Union. He would be entirely right to do so because either no organisation or person is entitled to park and erect tents there or any organisation or person is entitled to park and erect tents there,  lt they were entitled to do  this it would create absolute chaos. I believe th.it on the first count the Minister was entirely right, in protecting the public interest, in removing this tent city not because it was anything to do with Aborigines but because he should have done so no matter whom it had anything to do with. That is all I have to say on the first point of the attack on the Minister. 
Secondly, we are asked to believe that the way in which he carried out this duty was improper. We have heard from him. I do not believe anybody would deny the accuracy or the truth of the statements he used in his speech to the House, saying that every effort was made by him to use reason and common sense in order to ensure that there was no confrontation, as referred to by some speakers on the other side of the House, and that these reasonable approaches failed. It has never been suggested that he did not have the legal right to remove the tents whether he passed the Ordinance to which reference has been made or not. But, having this legal right and having failed in a reasonable and sensible attempt to bring about a compromise removal, he was legally bound, I believe, by his oath of office to enforce the law and to ensure that people were not allowed to park haphazardly in front of Parliament House and erect tent cities there. We can get from his own speech the whole sequence of events. 
The only other point I want to make on this matter is that I do not think I have ever heard a more irresponsible speech in this Parliament than that which was made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby). His  speech was an example of the most sickening double think, lt would be an irresponsible speech if it came from a layman; it is doubly irresponsible when it comes from a lawyer who has been admitted to the Bar and is required to uphold the law of which he is a servant. We have been told that violence occurred because the police were seeking to carry out their duty and that the fault lay with the police. 
The suggestion by the honourable member who is interjecting from outside the House - another example of his regard for the law and the rules of the Parliament - as all who listened to him in this House and outside it will know, is that the responsibility was on the police; and he went on to say ...r.-1.., on by the Minister'. That is a shocking accusation against a Minister who was carrying out a law and ensuring that the police carried out a law. It is perfectly right and sensible for the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory to object to that law, but to stand up in this House and to attack the police and the Minister by saying that that was the cause of the violence seems to me to be something which no lawyer could possibly accept. Surely, violence does not occur because a police officer seeks to carry out the law; violence occurs only when a citizen, objecting to the law being carried out, uses violence against the servants of the public who are seeking to carry it out. That is what occurred on this occasion, it is no good speaking about who was there and how respectable they were. The violence occurred because the people concerned resisted the carrying out of the law. Here we have a lawyer - a member of this Parliament - supporting them in their resistance and turning the blame on the police who where carrying out the law which was not only the result of the Ordinance but the result of a law of the land. 
We have listened with varying degrees of attention to a speech which seemed to concern itself with a number of very minor and petty anomalies and not to concern itself with the basic issues which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has put before the House in this Budget. I believe that the Budget has greatly advanced the national well being of Australia. I believe that the Budget makes significant advances in relieving distress amongst the Australian people and I have heard nobody from the Opposition deny that they are very significant advances. The Budget makes advances in providing incentives to people to work in that it reduces the amount of taxation levied on their wages and salaries. It makes a proper approach in existing economic circumstances to stimulating consumer spending and stimulating the Australian economy generally. 
These are 3 most important matters for any Budget to deal with. We have now reached a stage in this nation  -  a stage which other nations have reached - at which a Budget is only one factor among a number of factors which will decide our national economic progress and the well being of our Australian people. It is not by itself the only matter which can achieve that result, but it is a significant matter and on this occasion it has taken the 3 steps which I have stated. 
I will enumerate why I believe we have made these advances. In the area of relieving distress I believe that the introduction of the proposal to help those people who have to spend long periods in nursing homes is one of the most significant advances recently made. Every honourable member must have many experiences of constituents coming before us and explaining the difficulty they are experiencing because they have elderly relatives not in hospitals but in nursing homes which have greatly increased their charges. In many cases the nursing homes are forced to increase their charges in order to pay their employees and to pay for the facilities they must have to run the homes. Not only has a great deal of distress been caused to individual Australians as a result of the high cost of maintaining people in nursing homes, but also a great deal of anxiety has occurred amongst Australians who fear that at some future stage they may be unable to meet their commitments without great hardship to themselves. 
This is a logical extension of action which this Government has taken in the past to ensure that people can stay in hospitals indefinitely without being overcharged. The Government has enabled people to insure against an indefinite stay in a hospital. The provision of insurance in respect of people in nursing homes and the additional assistance given is a great advance and I do not believe that anybody could reasonably deny that that is so. I believe that the acceptance of the principle of child minding centres does the Government great credit. It will be of great assistance to very many Australians. The proposal is that working mothers will have places where their children can be properly cared for while they work. 
Some people argue against this concept and say that it will encourage mothers to go out to work and that that is a bad thing to do. Presumably the people who argue that way, although they do not say so, would be logically bound to go on and say: 'Because we think this we do not care what happens to children who are left without mothers, whether they are locked up in the home without proper supervision or put in improper places where they do not get the correct supervision while their mothers are away.' I think all honourable members know that at least 240,000 women are in the work force. There is a requirement that their children be properly cared for while the mothers are at work unless we wish those children to be at risk of growing up as delinquents. This is another action which has been taken by the Government in this Budget. 
I hope,  Sir, that  I may be forgiven a very small diversion on these matters at this point, because I would like to put on the record that I do not believe that these are new policies, as is claimed. They are newly implemented policies but the fact that they have been part of Liberal thinking is indicated by the knowledge that the proposal for assistance to nursing homes was part of the policy put forward by the Liberal-Country Party Government in the 1969 election campaign. The child minding centres proposal was part of a policy speech during the 1970 Senate election campaign. That ought to dispose of any suggestion that these ideas have just been thought up at the last moment for the purposes of this election. I hope I will be permitted to say that there is some personal satisfaction for me in seeing these proposals included in this Budget. 
These are significant and perhaps more dramatic steps than many of the others which have been taken, but the other measures in this social welfare Budget - and that is what it is - are also sensible and helpful. I refer particularly to the proposal for home nursing care for those people who otherwise might have to be sent to a hospital or a nursing home. Under this proposal they may stay in their own homes and receive nursing assistance there. It has not only the humane advantage of ensuring that people who have grown up in their homes and are left alone because of the death of a partner, who have memories of their lives in those homes and want to remain there will receive proper care, but also has the significant economic benefit that it is much cheaper to keep such people in their own homes with nursing assistance than to move them out to hospitals or nursing homes. So it is on both humanitarian and economic grounds a provision in the Budget which should not be overlooked. It will provide immense satisfaction to very many Australians. 
It is a social welfare Budget. Not only has it taken steps for this year; they are steps which are necessary, which are irrevocable and also will be felt in years to come. This Budget is charting a course in social welfare which cannot ever be reversed. Stemming from the Budget is the most important statement that the means test will be further ameliorated and tapered and will be completely abolished within  3  years. When this plan for the abolition of the means test was first put forward  1  argued against it, I must admit. I argued on the grounds that it would be preferable to make more money available to the lower income people before that plan was implemented, although the first step was taken towards abolition. But now that we have seen the costing and the result of taxation being levied on means test free income, the situation is different. We should not lose sight of the fact that this proposal was never put forward by the Opposition. The Opposition never suggested that means test free income should be taxable and this does make a significant difference to the amount of total funds available both for this and real poverty levels. I believe that this is another great advance forward. 
Look at what the abolition of the means test will do. It will give an incentive to the aged to work and earn more than they otherwise would do because they will not have their pensions reduced until they have earned a considerable amount. When the means test is abolished, there will be a great incentive for people to continue to work and to produce, and, therefore, not to rust themselves as individuals - this is significant - but to increase the productive capacity of this country. That is one result of the abolition of the means test. It will also provide an incentive to save more than there has been before, so that people could pay more into a superannuation fund or save in other ways. This will provide an incentive in that area lacking before the abolition of the means test took place. There will be removed a temptation to refrain from declaring an income which is earned when people get to a certain age because, as a result of that income, they may lose some of their pension. This too, as a by-product, is extremely good. 
Of course, this Budget does not solve all areas of poverty. I do not think that any single Budget could hope to do that. But associated with the Budget is the statement that there will be a proper inquiry into poverty and, presumably, the reasons for poverty in Australia and this will cover not just an area of pensions but also areas of health and other reasons which can lead people into conditions of poverty. There will be an inquiry of that kind and that will chart a path along which we can move in the future in attacking this problem. The fact that we have here an enormous move in this year surely should be full indication to the Australian people that when that path is charted we shall continue to move along it. This too is something which has flowed from the Budget and which will be of great benefit. 
In addition, as I mentioned, there is the question of providing an incentive by reducing taxation. Argument has been advanced that it is unfair to reduce taxation in the way in which it will be reduced, even though taxation on the higher incomes will be reduced by a lesser proportion than taxation on the smaller incomes. I do not believe that this is a proper or a valid argument. It is usually sought to be backed up by saying that somebody on a higher income will receive more in dollars as a reduction than somebody on a lower income will receive. Of course, that is true; but it is only part of the argument - only a fraction of the argument. Of course they will receive more because they are paying infinitely more in dollars before the reduction is applied. Surely it is the percentage reduction that must count and the percentage reduction on the lower incomes is, in this Budget greater than that on the higher incomes. 
We do need to avoid any kind of approach which suggests that people who earn more should not get the benefit of those earnings because, in this country, tor purposes of productivity and for purposes of justice, those who are considered to be worth more in salary should not be  reduced to one common mould after taxation, which I think is sometimes suggested by the Opposition and which 1 fear would happen should the Opposition become the government of this country. I do not want to digress too far in this but, from what I have heard the shadow Treasurer on the Opposition side, the honourable Member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  say, it does seem to be a recipe for increased taxes al! round, more particularly increased taxes in that area where increasing taxes will bring in less revenue than it would from any other area but where it would have the greatest dampening of incentive to produce. However, in this Budget, the opposite is the case. Here, the incentive is given and surely that in a country crying out for productivity must be necessary. 
Is it not true that a reduction in taxation for a man earning wages or salary means infinitely more in real terms than an increase in wages of the same amount would be, because that increase in wages not only attracts taxation but also puts up prices on what is being purchased, whereas a reduction of taxation does neither but would mean a much greater increase in take home pay than would be a much higher amount added to the wage cheque each week? In fact, I would hope to see, as years go by, the question of taxation reduction being discussed in conjunction with possible wage claims for the future so that they would not be in separate compartments as they are now. This might - I put it no higher than that - be one means of approaching the problem about which I now propose to speak, the last one that is left. 
At the end of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  very properly sounded a note of warning. Having made these enormous advances in social services, having given the great incentives that were given by taxation reductions and having thereby undoubtedly stimulated the consumer demand which is required by our economy at present, he nevertheless said and said properly that we still had to grapple with the problem of cost-push inflation because a budget will not cope with that. It is true that if we do not grapple with that problem and overcome it, a great part of the benefits of the taxation reductions and a great part of the increased pensions given throughout the Budget will lose their value. Therefore this is still a task facing us. It is not a part of a Budget to do this, but it is a very proper thing for a Treasurer to point out when he has introduced his Budget, that that still large remaining task is for the community as a whole to tackle. This must be in these next years a problem which is attacked and beaten. I believe that it can be attacked and beaten only by co-operation by labour, employers, consumers and government. I do not think that any one of them alone can lay down laws and say: These must be followed and they will have the effect that we will require'. 1 think we must seek to achieve that co-operation. 
I ask honourable members: Who would the people of Australia think were most likely to tackle the problem of cost-push inflation? Would it be those who support or at least do not condemn crippling strikes which come quickly on the scene such as, perhaps, we have seen in the New South Wales Branch of the Builders Labourers Federation, which not only stop production but destroy that which has already been produced? Would those who attack a government for putting before an arbitration court arguments indicating what it thinks the economy of this country can properly bear, and people who object to proper economic arguments being put before a tribunal, help to keep down costpush inflation or would they help to increase it? Would people who do not condemn strikes which stop production - I am not talking about all strikes but about strikes which stop production and which destroy that which has been produced - be likely to attack cost-push inflation more than this Government would? I really believe that not only is this Budget great but also that the important problem facing us of increasing productivity and keeping prices down for the benefit of all is unlikely to be solved by the Opposition. I believe that, on the evidence of this Budget, it is likely to be solved by a Liberal-Country Party government and I believe that the people should take that fully into their consideration when they decide not only that this is a good Budget but also what is going to happen to this country after this Budget, although when they will get the opportunity to do so seems at the moment a little clouded. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  You will recall, or I will recall to your mind, that a few minutes ago the Minister for Foreign Affairs quoted the American Ambassador as saying that if there were a change of government the new government would maintain its ANZUS commitment in full force. 1 ask you: Did you hear, as I heard, an interjection or interjections from the Opposition 'That is not true'? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In the very short time available to me to run through the proceedings of this matter I should like to put before the House the facts, as I understand them. They are these: Some considerable time, in my memory, before the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  became Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Department of Foreign Affairs offered to Nepal and Laos 5 aircraft to be in a passenger VIP configuration. As a result of that action, I think also before the present Prime Minister became Foreign Minister, the Department bought from the Royal Australian Air Force 5 surplus aircraft. These aircraft were Service aircraft and were not conditioned to carry VII persons as had been offered to Nepal and Laos. The Department then discovered that it would take far too much time and cost far too much money to convert these surplus 
RAAF Service aircraft into the kind of aircraft which it had promised to Nepal and Laos. 
At that stage of the proceedings Jetair Australia Ltd advertised in the newspapers that it had for sale a fleet of aircraft which were of the configuration required and which had certificates of airworthiness - which incidentally the RAAF aircraft did not have. As a result of this advertisement the Department of Foreign Affairs - I think seeing a way out of the trouble it had got itself into by buying Service aircraft which would cost too much money to prepare: but for whatever the reason was at the time - recommended to the then Foreign Minister that it should buy these 6 Jetair aircraft, or some of them, in order to fulfil the undertaking it had given to Nepal and Laos. The Foreign Minister at the time approved the minute which was sent up to him advising that course. The Department was then left with 5 Service aircraft which it had bought already and which nobody at that time had indicated they wanted. The Department therefore, I think quite sensibly, believed that it could help the Cambodians to resist the attacks on them by providing them with these aircraft. The Department made inquiries, I understand, through the Americans for some reason I do not understand, to the Cambodians, saying: 'Do you want these 5 surplus aircraft that we have?' And the Cambodians did. The aircraft subsequently were sent to Cambodia in a Service configuration. 
The final point I will make before 1 sit down is that these aircraft were bought in an entirely irregular way by the Department of Foreign Affairs, but subsequently the Department of Supply, having searched throughout the whole of Australia to see whether aircraft of the kind wanted were available at the time at a cheaper price or as a better buy, said: 'No; in fact these are the best buy that is available if we are to buy this kind of aircraft at all'. 
There is perhaps little which is new that can be said on the matter which is now before the House. But it is also true to say that I think there is advantage in restating in this House, of Parliament, and before the Australian people, the importance of this Bil] and the reasons why it should be passed into law. I welcome the opportunity for the Parliament to discuss once more the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. It gives us the chance - so far postponed - to resolve on the floor of this House, the attitude of this House of Parliament towards this proposed law. I must emphasise at this stage that this Bill, if passed, will not decide the question of whether the national Government or the State governments have legal sovereignty over the waters around our coast. Therefore those of us who support this Bill are not asking that the question of sovereignty be decided by this House. We are asking that a situation be created where the question of sovereignty may be. properly decided in a constitutional way, and that situation will be created by the passage of this Bill, which would open the way for a decision by the High Court of Australia in accordance with the Constitution. 
The last time the House discussed this matter we were asked by the Government to adjourn the debate so that conferences could occur between national and State representatives to see whether this matter could be resolved in some other way. That was a reasonable request for time, and it was acceded to. Since then these conferences have taken place and have, on communiques issued to us, reached no agreement except an agreement not to try to resolve the matter at all - not to try to put the matter of sovereignty beyond doubt. That is not a reasonable solution. In fact, it is not only not a reasonable solution; it is not a solution at all. Certainly, even if all that was hoped for by those engaged in these discussions took place, it would not be a solution which would be lasting and final. Even if all matters in question - those relating to fishing and fishing laws, to poaching, to conservation, to anti-pollution measures, to mining, to drilling for oil, to international agreements and to the questions which will arise between ourselves and Papua New Guinea - were the subject of identical legislation, co-operation, cooperative legislation between the national Government and the States, each State would still be able in future - any State would still be able in the future - to change its legislation and the whole facade of uniformity would fall to the ground, as it has fallen to the ground on the question of uniform company laws. Moreover the national government, in changed circumstances in the future which might call for changed national legislation, could not itself legislate to change existing mirror legislation and ensure its sovereignty without altering the whole pattern of uniform legislation and with the sure knowledge, which it ought to have, that it had the power so to legislate. 
The only real resolution of this matter is to put beyond doubt the question of sovereignty and the only way to do this, since the Commonwealth and the States still make conflicting claims as to the sovereignty right out to the end of the continental shelf, is to have the matter resolved by the High Court. It may be that some private litigation will eventually lead to such a resolution. But I suggest it is unworthy of the Parliament, representing the nation, to shirk creating a situation which will have the matter resolved and leave it to some private individual to bring a case, which he may or may not be able to do. Especially do I feel this when the Commonwealth, as it has done in its agreement with Indonesia, asserts a positive sovereignty over waters in the Indian Ocean which it will not assert by legislation passed inside Australia - although I must say that even in this matter of the agreement with Indonesia, good as I believe it was for Australia, I understand that the Commonwealth was so unsure of its position that it felt it necessary to consult with the Government of Western Australia while engaged in carrying out this international agreement. 
If that is so, is this to be a precedent? Must the national Government consult with any State or all States in the future on international matters which may be in dispute between ourselves and some other countries? What happens if agreement cannot be reached after that consultation and a State asserts that it will not agree to the international agreement made by the Commonwealth? If it is argued, as I gather it is, that the matter is in doubt and there may be State sovereignty over these waters, then what happens? Do we then assert that this is not so and that we, as a national Parliament, have authority? If that happens then why can it not happen now? 
The reasons why this matter should be resolved have been stated before. Senate select committees, a speech delivered by the present Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  on behalf of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Foreign Minister and a number of authoritative statements all assert after thorough examination that it is not in Australia's national interests for this matter to remain unresolved. I read into the record, in order to support that, the final recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. It said: 
The Committee considers that, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
I reinforce that by a quotation from the speech made by the Minister for National Development when he introduced this Bill. He said: 
At present, the State governments also claim sovereign rights in this same area. The Commonwealth believes that, except in respect of internal waters as they existed at federation, the States have no such rights. The legal issue is presently unresolved. The Government's view is that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. This will be a matter for decision by the courts. 
It is not just I who is saying that it is in Australia's national interests to resolve the matter, and the corollary must be that it is against Australia's national interests if it is not resolved. 
I would also suggest that, in spite of the arguments which have been put forward for the resolution of this matter, there have not been arguments put before us to show that the reasoned, cogent arguments in the Senate Select Committee's report - presumably those reasoned, cogent arguments led to the quotation I read from the speech of the Minister for National Development - are wrong. No suggestion has been put before us that the Chief Justice was talking through his hat in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia when in the course of his judgment he said that the sea bed and the continental shelf naturally belong to a nation as an international person. Either they do or they do not. Either they belong to Australia as an international person or they belong to 6 or 7 different international persons, 6 of whom are not recognised internationally. We do not know the answer. Nor has it been argued that the Chief Justice was wrong when he said that the existing situation in respect of fisheries is pregnant with practical difficulties, particularly if there is at any time any diversity between Commonwealth and State laws with respect to fishing on the high seas'. There is such diversity between Common wealth and State laws at present. There is a diversity which bears upon individual citizens of Australia in an unjust way. 
I have not heard one argument advanced to destroy the validity of the reasons which have been advanced for resolving this matter. It has occasionally been said that the matter is not important; it is not significant enough for the Parliament to take note of; it is not one of great importance to Australia. But surely any reasonable person examining the present position must agree that it is important both now and especially in the future for as far as we can see ahead. The sea, and its contents - the fish in it and the deposits on its bed - are becoming of more and more importance to the peoples and the nations of the world. Already we see grave disputes abroad on the question of fisheries, as to who has the right to fish in certain areas and on the vastly important matter of so regulating fisheries that particular species of fish are not destroyed and made extinct. There have been clashes on the high seas - in the North Sea - on that very matter. There will be further matters of international concern as to the width of territorial waters, as to the distance over the sea bed to which national sovereignty extends and as to whether the resources of the sea bed outside that limit should be internationalised and used for the benefit of underdeveloped countries. This idea, as I understand it, was put forward by the United States of America in the United Nations. 
Who is to decide the limit of the continental shelf from Australia's point of view in this kind of argument? Who is to decide whether at this cut-off point the sea bed outside is to be internationalised? What happens if a State government claims that the national Government does not have the sovereignty to do this, because the State government has the sovereignty it now claims? I know at present it does not assert this although it does want to be consulted before national sovereignty is asserted. But what is to stop it asserting it in the future if this matter is not to be resolved? Not least among these matters of great concern are those of conservation and pollution of the sea. I have already spoken about conservation of fisheries. Pollution of the sea wherever it occurs is not confined to that area in which a tanker discharges ballast or to some specific area in which some kind of pollution occurs. When it occurs it is of interest to all those countries whose coasts are washed by the sea. At the moment we do not know who has the ultimate sovereignty over conservation and pollution. We do not know who has the ultimate sovereignty over deciding whether a dead reef somewhere around Australia can be mined for cement works. We do not know who has the ultimate sovereignty over deciding whether an oil well can be drilled in some area where there is a possibility of destroying a great national asset. We do not. know who has the ultimate authority on that. 
And it is no answer to say that agreement can be reached on this point or that point or that co-operation may be achieved on this point or that point. What we need to know as a nation is where ultimate sovereignty over these matters lies. That is why the Senate Select Committee brought in the report it did and that is why the then Government reached its conclusion and read in this House the speech of the Minister for National Development. 1 cast no aspersions on any persons who have changed their minds since then. It is the perfect right of anyone to do this. But I do assert that there has not been advanced by matter of argument or reason any explanation of why that change should have taken place. Bearing in mind that State governments claim sovereignty right out to the continental shelf, must the national Government consult all State governments and get their agreement before entering into an international agreement? Are we to be able to act as a nation, or as 6 States which have another government negotiating for them but necessarily bound by the rights those other 6 governments claim? I believe that is a derogatory position for Australia to have in the world. All these matters are not confined in importance to Australia. They were even considered to be of sufficient importance in Canada for a case to be stated before the Supreme Court there so that the resolution could take place. Already we have a situation where State and Commonwealth laws on fisheries do conflict. In Tasmania a fisherman has had his boat confiscated for allegedly breaking a State fisheries law. He believes he was wrongfully treated because he was complying with a Commonwealth law which he believes was applicable in his case. He has been trying to get the matter before the High Court - with, meanwhile, his means of livelihood out of the sea and on a slip. But the State Government is doing all it can to delay that matter going before the High Court. It might lead to some resolution of this problem. But, on the other hand, the fisherman himself may well run out of heart or out of money before he can bring a personal case before this great tribunal. 
Now we read that the Tasmanian Government has given what are reported to be exclusive fishing rights' in waters where Commonwealth fishing laws apply. What is to happen if other States follow suit? Who is really to decide this matter, if somebody infringes an exclusive right which a State claims it has the right to give in waters over which the Commonwealth claims it has sovereignty? All I know is that one of the things that will happen is that some individual Australian citizen or citizens will be greatly disadvantaged, as they must always be, when the state of the law is not clear and when they are caught, as citizens, between such conflicting interests. In justice it is wrong for Australian citizens to be liable to be subjected to this kind of a situation. 
This is not, as I see it, a matter of differing political philosophy; it is not a matter of basic differences between the the parties in this House. This is a Government Bill, albeit one introduced by a previous Government, and that it is not already law is a responsibility resting at least as much on the present Opposition as on the present Government. But that is water under the bridge. It remains a matter which, while it is unresolved, inhibits necessary national action, afflicts with injustice private citizens and leaves completely unclear the situation around Australia's seas. At some time I am sure that the demands of common sense and the pressures of future historical development will lead to a resolution of this matter, but we have an opportunity now to act in what has been said to be the national interest and what I believe to be the national interest, and as a Parliament I believe that we should do so. We should pass this Bill. 
I have no doubt whatever as to the complete sincerity and straightforwardness of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  but I think it is unfortunate that this debate should become one concerning some individual because the importance of it extends far beyond that, important though that might be. It seems to me that what was being raised by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was a matter of some public importance and I put it to the House this way. What he was saying is this: 'Is it not true that there are papers properly classified as secret or top secret - papers which deal with defence matters, foreign policy matters and matters of sensitivity of that kind? By that 1 mean properly classified because if the information contained in them was revealed to an unauthorised source it could cause damage to Australia's security. I suggest that that is a proposition which most people would agree was true. Is it not also true that such papers in Ministers' offices are handled by one or more officials or secretaries in such offices? It would be normal for that to happen. It would not be improper for that to happen. It would be the usual way of going about the handling of such papers. 
I am trying to put a genuine case to this Parliament, not trying to talk to you. 
All right, you regard those 2 propositions as nonsense. If it is true that there are such documents and that making use of the information in them could damage Australia; if it is true, as would be normal and right, that officials or secretaries looked at them, ought it not also to be true that those who do look at them should be cleared by Security to see not that they are not communists - let us get away from that - or nazis or fascists but whether they are people generally who may wish to do some damage to Australia? In spite of what the honourable member said about rights, and I know what he feels about that matter, I put it to the House that no individual has a right to examine a secret and confidential document which is the property of a government. Nobody has that right. A normal government ought in the interests of Australia to take care that such information was seen and handled only by those who are thought safe to do so by the Security Service. It does not mean a Minister cannot employ somebody who is not checked in that way, but it does mean that they should not have access to such information unless such clearance is given. 
There was one more point of importance raised in what the honourable member for Mackellar said and that is that if what I have advanced now is generally true, and I believe that most people of good sense would think it was, is it not also true that a Prime Minister ought to know whether his Ministers are following these practices and ought not be able to get up in the Parliament and say to it and the nation: T do not know what a Minister has done. I do not know whether the people handling these documents have been cleared. I wash my hands of it.' I think that this Parliament 
As far as I could understand the interjection - because the chamber is rather noisy and it was competing with others - it was that the present Prime Minister trusts his Ministers and therefore does not care to find out - he, the responsible head of a government - whether his Ministers are allowing secret documents to be seen by those who have not been cleared by Security. I say that this is not a proper attitude and not one to be excused by saying: 'Oh, he trusts them.' It is the responsibility of any Prime Minister to see that such documents are properly guarded. 
Let me finish on this note: What I put before this House cannot be construed as an attack on any person, on any individual. It is not meant to be and it is not. But it is an attack upon a system of government. Members of the Opposition are entitled to point out where they see discrepancies or errors, as they think, in systems of government and to be able to do it without having such unjustified attacks made upon them as the Minister made upon the honourable member for Mackellar. It was not only unjustified but also untrue and it failed completely in its object of trying to stop the honourable member for Mackellar from raising these matters, as I am sure he will do again. 

 - Mr- Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  made at least 2 false statements concerning me. The first statement to which I draw attention was that, as Prime Minister, I initiated a policy - which he apparently did not like- by making a statement at the Five Power Conference held in Canberra at which I referred to Malaya as distinct from other parts of Malaysia. That statement is untrue. The policy to which he referred was initiated and stated to this House in February 1969 iti the first speech made by me on behalf of the then Government on what it would do 'iti Singapore and Malaysia. It was in that speech that the policy to which  Mr Morrison  refers was initiated. It was stated clearly that in regard to east Malaysia we would regard ourselves as being more useful giving diplomatic rather than military help. That was a firm and final statement. It was adhered to. We never vacillated from it. 
The Minister for External Territories said that this distinction started at the Five Power Conference here. In fact, the policy differentiating between the peninsular of Malaya and east Malaysia began in February 1969. It has been firmly adhered to ever since. There has been no vacillation. That is the first point on which I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The second one is the report, which was not entirely inaccurate but significantly inaccurate, of a conversation held between me and the Tunku of Malaysia which quoted me as saying: 'If you' - the Tunku - "have any border clashes you will have to take care of them yourselves.' This is untrue. In accordance with the policy initially stated and adhered to all the time, I said: 'If you have border clashes in Sabah or Sarawak you will have to deal with them yourselves.' It was nothing at all to do with the peninsular of Malaya, which was the area where we first stated we would regard ourselves as being militarily committed. I think that those 2 statements need to be corrected, firstly because they are untrue and slanted and, secondly, because by correcting them I can show that, unlike the present Government, we never varied or vacillated from the firm and right stand we took initially. 

 Mr MORRISON (St George - Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Does the Minister for Defence agree that it is strange indeed that a man who had served him faithfully for 6 years should tender a resignation to take rapid effect without giving any reasons whatsoever for such tendering? Does the Minister also agree that it is equally strange that he, the employer, should accept and indeed seek to accelerate that resignation, again without giving any reasons for doing so? Can the Minister explain this strange and almost unbelievable occurrence? 
A number of us in this House have had experience of the Minister for Labour  (Mr  Clyde Cameron) making speeches when he has arguments in which he believes and he has been able to make a good case. I do not think anybody who has heard him today would not realise that he has no arguments in which he has believed and as a result he has made an extremely bad case. Indeed, he has not tried even to discuss the point of this matter which is before us, except in one way in which he showed the necessity for the proposal of this matter for discussion. He read out a series of contracts which he questioned in. his own mind on the grounds of quality and price. I do not believe that suggested criticism is valid for a moment. But what is keen and what comes out of this is that if what he proposes to bring in is brought in you could not any longer be able to question a contract on the grounds of quality and price because his reply would be: 'Ah, but the trade union movement has good relationships with the contractor. I say so and that is all that matters.' 
Indeed, he brought out in some way the whole point of this discussion. What we are saying now must not and cannot be construed, as he tried to construe it, into an attack on any individual Minister and into an attack on any individual public servant. That is certainly not in our minds. But we do say this: When there is introduced into the awarding of contracts a right of an individual Minister to decide not on quality, not on price, not on ability to supply but on his own judgment of whether a union likes a firm or not, then we say that there is created an opportunity for graft, for bribery and for corruption of a kind we have not seen in Australia since the days of the Rum Rebellion. 
Again this is not directed at any individual - certainly not  Senator Cavanagh,  certainly not the Minister. But all history shows that if an opportunity for corruption is created then sooner or later some man or another, some 
Minister or another, some public servant or another will be tempted to take advantage of that opportunity and some will fall into that temptation. That is what is provided in the rules now to be laid down. We are asked to leave the question of deciding contracts on quality and price and have, amongst other things - and this is the really dangerous thing - a decision by the Minister on whether the contractor's relationship with the trade union movement is good or not. 
Let us have a look at what this involves. First of all, what is the trade union movement? Is it the Australian Council of Trade Unions? Is it an organiser for a particular union, a secretary of a particular union, a shop steward? It is not defined. It is clearly any member of a trade union who does not like a firm, who could go to the Minister and say: 'This firm is unfair to my union. Our relationship with it is not good.' There is no way in which anybody can question that. Then it becomes a matter for the Minister to form his own judgment, in secret, in his own mind, without giving any reasons - merely saying: 'I agree that the relationship is not good and therefore this man will not get the contract which on terms of quality, ability, supply and price he should get.' 
If any firm in Australia breaks the industrial law, then it ought to be prosecuted under the law and have an opportunity to defend itself before an independent arbitrator or judge in public. If it has broken the law it should well be punished in that way. If it has not broken the law it should not be punished in any way. It should not be subject to financial fines and punitive measures by anybody, by any court, and, more importantly, it should not be subject to punitive measures by one man without charges having been brought, without any chance to defend himself or the firm - indeed, quite possibly unknowing that he is being punished because it is a decision of the Minister sitting in his own office. 
What opportunities there are in this innovation. There are opportunities for corruption on many levels. First there is the opportunity for the head of a firm to say to the union organiser with whom he is having some difference of opinion and who might well have said to him: 'Unless you do what I want I will tell the Minister that our relations are not good and you will not get any more contracts' - that he- 
Well, this is inherent in this proposal - my word it is. The Minister shakes his head because he does not like us bringing out the actual inherent problems in this whole proposal. Are you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or is anybody else going to say that a head of a firm wanting government contracts now or in the future, threatened in this way by somebody with a position in the trade union movement, will not stop and think and say: 'Well, it does say that the Minister can decide whether my relationships with the union are good or not. The union representative said he will go to the Minister and say that the relationships are bad. He may well cost me the contract which I would otherwise get on past criteria applied.' This must affect his judgment. It could well in some cases result in a pecuniary offer so that that complaint would not be made. There could be some employers, and I emphasise some employers, who for some reason that they did not quite understand were not getting the government contracts awarded which they felt they ought to be getting because they knew their prices and quality were good and they knew they had had contracts in the past, who would wonder whether it might not be a good idea to approach not a Minister, not a public servant, but some representative of the Labor Party in their area and say: Look, try to find out what is wrong here, would you? After all, is there a branch in your electorate that would like a good solid contribution from my firm to help with electoral matters?' The opportunity is there. I would like to think it would be taken advantage of by almost none. But the history of government requires that opportunities for this kind of thing should not ever be there. 
There is the final chance of a contractor seeking a contract, not quite understanding why he does not get it, going to inquire of the Minister whether the reason why he did not get it was perhaps because somebody had said his relationships with the union were bad. The opportunity is then there for those relationships to be greatly improved by a donation slipped into an open drawer. I may say at this point that the Minister for Labour was quite wrong in suggesting that there was some attack on public servants in this matter, in the awarding of contracts. If there was any attack it has been made by  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister in another place, who has publicly stated that he is going to take over the decision of what contracts should be awarded from the public servants who previously decided what contracts should be or should not be made. This is where, if anywhere, there is this attack. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in the past before we decided the criteria on which contracts should be let there were bad days when shoddy goods were supplied by contractors, when prices far too high were charged and when the public purse was pillaged. This occurred - and I speak of long ago, quite possibly in England rather than here - as a result of relationships between a Minister and a wealthy employer. It was necessary to see that the public purse was not pillaged, that the quality of work was high and that prices were kept down. For those reasons these criteria were introduced so that nobody would get favouritism. Only those who met that criteria would be. contractors to a government using public money. These criteria have been thrown out the window - not quite thrown out; they are still there certainly - but there is now an overriding matter. Now the Minister in a Star Court can decide whether a contract is awarded or not. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, arises out of the answer just given by the Minister for Science about the siting of the Institute of Marine Science. Will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to the House that when the Institute of Marine Science is sited it will be sited nowhere else but in north Queensland? Also, will he give an undertaking that those who examine alternative sites will do their best to see that the site they choose will be as close to Townsville as possible? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving that in accordance with standing order 359 a message be sent to the Senate requesting that the Senate give leave to the AttorneyGeneral to attend this House for examination. 
I move this motion because of the serious implications and the danger to civil liberties which are implicit in the courses that the Government has already embarked on and in the words used in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today. It seems to me that the Government has recently embarked upon a path dangerous to the liberties we have accepted in Australia for years and each day that has passed it has advanced further along this path on the pretext of protecting Australian liberties. The danger is the assumption that merely asserting something, which cannot be proved or which is not sought to be proved, is sufficient to establish the truth of a proposition and is sufficient, it is alleged, in some cases to justify punishment and, in all cases, to justify the public condemnation of individuals or organisations against whom no legal proceedings have been brought. The underlying thought in this approach is that because we abhor and are disgusted by particular actions, that is sufficient ground for abandoning the protection which the law of the land extends to all citizens, even when they do things which we abhor, that protection being that they cannot be punished unless they are charged, proceeded against and convicted in an Australian court of law. 
To abandon that principle and to assert that a man or an organisation can be charged and convicted and, indeed, can be punished without that procedure being passed through, is one of the most dangerous attacks on civil liberties that I have seen in the time that I have been in Parliament. If a group of people in Australia were to form a club, were to show a swastika flag, or were to wear storm troop uniforms we would, all of us, be sickened and disgusted. But unless they broke the law as the law stands we would not take action against them and we would not seekto punish them, because if we did do that we would be destroying that concept of freedom and that concept of the rule of law which lead us to fight Hitler in the first place. This is the danger I see in the approach being made today by the Prime Minister. 
The previous Government has been accused of not taking action against persons and organisations whom the Prime Minister apparently thinks to have committed some crime. That accusation against a previous Government must stand or fall on the truth of 2 assertions, the first being that the previous Government should have acted without legal sanction, without prosecution, without getting a conviction in a court of law. The second proposition can only be that the previous Government should have sought to obtain convictions with the evidence available to it. Let us examine that second assertion first. If it is asserted that the previous Government should have taken action on the evidence then available to it, it is equally true now that the present Government should take action on the evidence it said was sufficient to enable action to be taken previously. If it does not take such action it is clearly agreeing that there was not sufficient evidence for a conviction; it is clearly agreeing that there was not sufficient evidence for even a charge and it is therefore agreeing with and not attacking the previous Government for not taking such action on such a lack of evidence. 
If the Government's second assertion is to be that we should take action whether we can bring a charge, whether we can get a conviction or not, this is really a most serious approach and I believe that we are entitled, having heard that from the Prime Minister in this House, to call before us the senior law officer of the Government to inquire of him whether he in fact as a lawyer and the senior law officer agrees with the proposition that people should be punished, held up to public ridicule, their names made available without any evidence against them sufficient to obtain a conviction in a court of law. We need to know this because if that is in fact to be asserted by the senior law officer in accordance with what the Prime Minister suggested ought to happen, there should be no lawyer on the other side of the House and no man on the other side of the House concerned with civil liberties who ought not to hang his head in shame, if I may use that word, sir. 
If on the other hand we are to be told by the senior law officer of the Crown, as we should be told if it is true, that he agrees there is not sufficient evidence in which to bring a charge, then all the attack made by the Prime Minister this afternoon falls completely to the ground and it is shown instead for what it is - an attempt to divert attention from the damaging attack on national security which his Attorney-General made; to divert attention from that by making unsustainable and false accusations against the previous Government. That is not the only reason why I suggest we should follow the course laid down under standing order 359. This whole affair has been a sort of continuing story of Peyton Place' - a little bit brought out now; a little bit brought out later; some new accusation, made mostly on television. 
I believe that this House - again in protection of civil liberties - ought to inquire a little more fully into just what sort of star chamber procedure was followed when a so-called inquiry was made into a so-called conspiracy by senior public servants. The Public Service Act lays down procedures by which those who are thought to have behaved wrongly can be examined. Those procedures on this occasion apparently were not followed. Instead, proceedings were taken in secret and again relying, so far as we are told, on the evidence of interested parties - that is to say, on the evidence of heads of departments whose officials were accused of conspiracy. We need to examine the Attorney-General and to get his views on the evidence applicable on the question of why it was necessary to have an inquiry at all. It may be that he could convince us that it was necessary and maybe he can show us something that has not come out yet. But if the report from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation member at that committee meeting was true - and we have been told it was false - why does that suggest evidence of conspiracy amongst public servants? Were they not meeting to examine, in anticipation of being asked to help  Senator Murphy  make a statement, what advice they should give? Has it been shown or even asserted that at that meeting they had before them some facts, some evidence which required a different answer from that given previously? I have not heard that asserted. All I have heard is the statement that because they met, presumably examined what was on the table before them, said that as a result of that examination they should not give anything different to what they gave before, that is evidence of a conspiracy. This ought not to be enough and ought not to be a charge levelled even for a while against public servants who cannot defend themselves. 
Above all we need to inquire into the question of why one man - one ASIO representative^ - has been made a scapegoat for this affair. This again is a man who cannot defend himself. Let us ask the Attorney-General when he comes before us whether this man has been treated in such a way because the laws relating to public service inquiry do not apply to ASIO personnel and therefore he would not have the same right of protest as any other public servant who attended that meeting would have. This is a suspicion which must enter into anybody's mind in trying to pick his way through this labyrinthine affair. I feel that in recent weeks we have, seen something approaching- 
Today we are discussing the matter of a number of Australian citizens who have been subjected to arrest and harassment by the Yugoslav Government. Included in those citizens are 3 Australians who have been killed by the Yugoslav Government. For all we know, and for all the Government has found out, it may well have been judicial murder by the Yugoslav Government. To keep the record straight 1 indicate the timetable of events. These men were tried, not arrested, during the term of the present Government, not the previous Government. 
They were tried in December. They were arrested previous to that. 
The Opposition does not oppose the underlying intent of this Bill which, when all is said and done, is merely a Bill to amend the Act introduced and passed into law by the previous Government for it was that Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government, which first brought the national Government into the field of the development of cities, old and new, and into the field of planning for regional development. 
That is right and we are therefore glad that the present Government has adopted our previous initiative. 
We are glad that the Government adopted our previous initiative. I promise the Minister that we are. I will tell him why. After all, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and I am glad that the present Government accepts our contention set out in the second reading speech made at the time the previous Government introduced its Bill. That is why I am glad that this contention has been accepted. It was said: 
The consequences of the imbalance caused by the concentration of population and employment around the principal Australian cities with the resulting problems of congestion and pollution are such that action must now be taken. The trend to increasing concentration is already evident to a degree which is causing concern. If no action is taken, the problem will become more acute as our population grows from 13 million to possibly 22 million over the balance  of the century. The increasing concentration of population in our great cities will magnify the consequences of increasing population growth. It is the geographical distribution of population  and  industry rather than total scale which calls for our attention. 
Those words which were spoken in this House when the previous Government introduced legislation which is now being amended are still true, and I assure the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  as I said before, that we are very glad that he accepts those words of the previous Government as his own. 
You do not accept what I have just said? 
That surprises me, and I am sure it would surprise the electorate, but we can go into it in greater detail later. Support in general of a Bill does not mean support for each particular proposal in it. We have an objection to one particular proposed amendment. We have a new proposal which is not in the Bill but which we think should be in the Bill and would improve it. We have considerable apprehension at what we believe will be the administrative action taken by the Government after the Bill is passed. 
The purpose of the Bill, as set out in the second reading speech, is to change the name and composition of the existing National Urban and Regional Development Authority. At present the Authority consists of a Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner and an advisory committee of 11 members. It is proposed to change its composition so that there will be a Chairman of the Commission - the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development - 3 other commissioners and I think, although the Bill does not make it clear and neither does the second reading speech, an associate commissioner not included in the 3 other commissioners to whom 
I have referred, plus an advisory committee of 
II members. We do not raise any objection to- expanding the personnel of the Commission from 2 to 5 or 6, whatever it may be. Of course, the Department of Urban and Regional Development having been established, it is sensible that the head of the Department should be on the Commission and that the Commission should report to and be responsible to that Department. But we make a suggestion. We think the Bill would be improved by it and we propose later to move, it as an amendment. We believe that on the Commission or the advisory committee there should be at least 2 persons who have a specialised and expert knowledge of environment preservation and of conservation. The 11 members of the advisory committee have already been appointed and they contain not one such person, though one, a professor, is close to it. These were appointments of the previous Government, so I do not in saying this reflect on the Minister. But the number 11 is not sacrosanct. It could be changed to 13 or 14 and the additional members, I suggest, could have a specialised approach. I believe this would have great advantages. 
In the planning of new cities it is essential to consider the effect of specific proposals on the environment. If new factories are to be provided attention should be given to ensure that effluent from them does not pollute streams or rivers. It must be ensured that factory chimneys do not pollute the air. This can be done by laying down at the start stringent conditions as to what comes out of the factory chimneys. Full plans must be made for the disposal of industrial waste. The effect on water consumption in a new mini metropolis must be considered, and so must sewage disposal. We must make sure that all sewage is fully treated when a new metropolis is started. Problems of drainage which have a great effect on conservation matters, areas of parkland in relation to areas of building and where an aerodrome should be sited are all matters in which conservationists have a vital interest, and the addition of 2 members with the special qualifications I have mentioned would ensure that this was done from the very beginning of the discussions on the new city. This approach, and occasional interdepartmental consultations with environmentalists as planning was proceeding, would be much better than waiting until plans were well advanced before consulting the Department of Environment and Conservation and those with specialised knowledge. I hope the Minister will seriously consider and accept the amendment to be moved. Perhaps the previous Government should have ensured this, but it -is not too late to ensure it now. I suggest that there are good reasons for doing so. 
I now move to a proposal to which we object, and that is to change the name of the Authority. I can see no reason why the National Urban and Regional Development 
Authority should be renamed the Cities Commission. Certainly the National Urban and Regional Development Authority will be vastly concerned with improving the quality of life in existing cities and with proper planning of new cities. This was what was always intended by the previous Government. As I read the second reading speech of the Minister, it is what is intended by the new Commission, and these things will obviously be an important part of the concern of the new Commission. But cities are by no means the only concern of the proposed Commission any more than they were the only concern of the Authority. 
Properly balanced regional development is of very great importance not only of itself but also because regional development must have an effect on and be intimately bound up with new city development. The concept of the original Act therefore is that we take the national Parliament into a wide field - urban and regional development. The importance of this was recognised by the present Government when it named one of its departments not the Cities Department but the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 'Cities Department' would not properly and adequately describe the new deparment which has been established or the duties and responsibilities of the proposed Commission. Unless the Government proposes to pay only lip service to regional development it should not leave out in its description of the Commission the words 'regional development'. I can see no reason for leaving out that description. No reason has been given. There is a reason why it should be retained, and leaving it out will cause considerable concern to very many people living not in the cities but in other areas of Australia who will see this as an indication by the Government that it is relegating to second or third place the development of new regions. This Commission which is being established is not a new step being taken. It is not a new approach or a new instrument and trying to call it by a new name cannot change this. In order to describe it properly and to remove the apprehensions of those who do hot live in cities, later we will be moving an amendment to object to the change in the designation of this authority. 
I move now to another matter about which I express apprehension. Of necessity State governments will need to be partners in many of the actions taken by the Commission and by the Department. It is proposed, quite properly proposed, that the States will have some jurisdiction over new areas to be developed, and there can be no objection to this. Further, once an area is placed under study for development there is a need to prevent rapidly increasing land prices brought about by speculation and by the fact that that area has been selected for study - rapidly increasing land prices which would not have come about if that site had not been selected. I personally do not object to that and the Government is looking to State governments to see that this does not happen. But the Government apparently is also looking to State governments to acquire the land in any area which is finally selected for development. I do most strenuously object to that because the State does not have to acquire land on just terms. It can set any price it likes on the land it is going to acquire and there is no appeal against the level of prices which some State government or some State Minister, perhaps with the agreement of some Federal Minister, sets on land which it wishes to acquire. The Commonwealth does have to pay a just price for any land it acquires and if there is disagreement about this price the matter must be settled by a court. If people are to have their land forcibly taken from them by a government, for the good of the community, for the good of a new development, or for the social good, we believe those people who have their land taken from them should be paid a just price for it and in the event of disagreement the courts should say what that just price is. 
The honourable member for Kingston interjects: 'What if they did not pay a just price in the first place?'. There is a difference. The buyer did not have the legal power to demand and acquire, without appeal, land from any other person. If he bought the land from some other person it was as a result of agreement. This situation ls quite different. This is a government moving in saying: 'You must give us that land. You must provide it to us,' apparently not being willing to pay a just price for it when the man does not wish to sell his land. 
It is not right, fair, just or honourable to acquire people's land on which they may have been settled for generations, on which they may have put many improvements and on which they have made their life, it is not right, fair, just, or honourable to acquire that land compulsorily unless the market price at the time on which the site ' is selected for development is paid for that land, it should be ensured that this is done and the only way to ensure it is for the Commonwealth to be responsible for acquiring that land. If this is not done, if it is left to the proposals which we know are in the minds of the Government now, we can only draw the conclusion that the Government seeks not to pay a just price for land it compulsorily acquires, that the Government agrees with the earlier interjection from the other side of the House that it is rubbish to say it should pay just prices for land it acquires and, in order to evade its legal obligations, the Government is hiding behind State governments' lack of legal obligations and leaving it to State governments to do its dirty work. This, in particular, is a matter to which we raise very great objections. 
There was a White Paper issued by Her Majesty's Stationery Office in London dealing with this particular problem which we have of acquiring land for social good where there must be some subordination of individual rights but not a complete overriding of individual rights. I quote one paragraph from that paper as follows: 
The Government are committed to enhancing the quality of everyday life in Britain. In doing so a balance must constantly be struck between the overriding duty of the State to ensure that essential developments are undertaken for the benefit of the whole community and the no less compelling need to protect the interests of those whose personal rights or private property may be injured in the process. 
The present intention of the Government is not to protect the interests of those whose personal rights or private property may be injured in the process. If it is argued by the Government that it is concerned with this, it can show that by laying down in legislation that land for these purposes, after a decision has been made, will only be acquired by the Commonwealth Government paying a just price for that land - the price ruling at the time the site was selected for study to see whether it would be a new development. 
Other than these criticisms, we have, as I said at the beginning, no underlying objection to the intent of the Bill. Indeed, we could not have because it had its genesis in the previous Government. Its goals were the goals of the previous Government. This is merely a not unreasonable method in most ways to amend the Act which was the instrument of attaining the goals of the previous Government but there are the objections to which I have referred and which I think are of great interest to very many Australians who value their rights and who do not wish to be overridden by an all-powerful government - people who need the protection of courts and who need to be sure that this new Commission will not be concerned only with cities, important as they are, whether they are old or new, but be concerned also with the regional development which is an integral part of the Bill and of the program. It should be in the title of the Bill to show that the new Government is in fact fully carrying out the intentions and approaches of the old Government. 
Like my colleague the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the previous  speaker  from this side of the House, I have no objection whatsoever to the purposes for which this Pipeline Authority is to be established. As I see it, the Authority is to ensure that there ire interconnections throughout Australia for discovered gas and petroleum supplies generally and to ensure that the fuel so discovered is taken to consuming points, whether those consuming points be in existing cities or whether they be in areas for which cities are planned for the future. The Authority is to ensure that hydrocarbons discovered in Western Australia or in the Northern Territory, for instance, have a means of transportation to markets in eastern areas of Australia. The Authority will make the best use of the natural resources of Australia and ensure that they are available to all parts of this nation, no matter in which subdivision of the nation they may be discovered. It is hard for me to see how anyone can argue against that concept. It is hard to see how anyone -:an claim that this action is not demanded by the public interest. For myself I would be happy to see it take place with or without consultation with the States and certainly with or without agreement by the States. 
I suppose there can be some legitimate discussion on how the aims which I have set out can best be brought about. The first part of that discussion, I imagine, would be as to whether the corporation that carries this out should be a public or private corporation. Those who argue in favour of a private corporation argue that the capital required would not be a drain on public finances, that private enterprise is more efficient than public enterprise and is able to do the job more cheaply. I am afraid that for myself these arguments do not carry conviction. I have never been able to accept the view that public investment should take place only in areas where it was clear that it would be unprofitable and that there would be a loss. In my view private enterprise naturally, because of its proper requirements, would tend to construct only those segments of a pipeline where there was a profit to be made. Private enterprise, I suggest, would not construct those segments of a pipeline which would need to be constructed if it were clear that no profit would be made from them. 
Furthermore, this operation is, of necessity, a truly monopoly operation. It is a truly monopoly operation in the sense that it is not even subject to competition from overseas or subject to competition from a similar kind of transportation. There is no real indication that in circumstances of complete protection and monopoly this operation would be carried out better by a private consortium than it would by public funds. This operation is and must be a monopoly operation. It would be absurd to suggest a duplication or a partial duplication of this pipeline in the way in which, for example, there is a duplication of airline services to provide competition, a duplication of shipping lines to provide competition or a duplication of the Commonwealth trading bank with private trading banks in order to provide competition. In this sense it would be absurd to suggest the construction of a parallel pipeline. I bear in mind also that if some private company does want to construct a pipeline to convey its own product to some other point there is, as I understand it, nothing in this Bill which prevents that company from constructing a pipeline and moving its own goods. If there were something of that nature in this Bill I would be violently opposed to it. But, as I see it, there is nothing of that kind in the Bill. 
I would much prefer, as I have said, to see a public monopoly than a private monopoly because I would prefer a situation where the accounts of the Authority were open to scrutiny in this Parliament, as I trust they will be and as I trust each significant transaction it makes will be open to scrutiny in this Parliament. I would prefer to see a situation where there is not an opportunity for oil companies, perhaps as a consortium, or for some oil companies perhaps as a consortium, to manipulate their profit to decide whether it was made in the transportation or in some other area. I want to avoid the danger where some oil companies as a consortium might use the power they had over transportation unfairly to treat their competitors in the oil field who did not own shares in that pipeline authority which would transport the product. So, as well as agreeing with the purpose of the pipeline I agree with it being operated by a public corporation and particularly since, as I have pointed out, there is no suggestion of anybody being compelled to use this authority by law. 
Having said this I believe that there are real dangers in the Bill as it stands. These are not so much dangers which are written into the Bill as dangers which exist as a result of the Bill and which ought to be provided against by altering the Bill. Let me suggest what I think some of these dangers are. Firstly I point out that there is no mention of how the price which is to be charged for transportation is to be arrived at. There is not even - and there should be - a provision that the price charged should be the same to all producers including the Authority if it buys some petroleum products and transports them itself. It is essential that this corporation should not differentiate in charges but that the charge should be the same to all producers. This is not provided for in the Bill. There must be no question of a variation of prices to give one producer an advantage over another for the same purpose. 
The second danger I think is this: I believe that there should be clarification of how the price to be charged is arrived at. It should be sufficient to cover operating costs, maintenance costs, replacements costs and in my view to pay income taxation and to pay a limited margin of profit into the Commonwealth Treasury in the sense in which perhaps Trans-Australia Airlines or other authorities are required to pay a profit into the Treasury. But it should not because of its monopolistic position be able to charge whatever the traffic will bear and thereby put up the price of a commodity which it transports to users throughout Australia. This is not provided for in the Bill. 
Incidentally, when examining the price which should be charged for the transportation of this commodity in this pipeline I think we might well have reached the stage where we could examine whether a component of that price should be the interest normally chargeable to the capital involved in the construction of such a pipeline. It may well be that there would be some who would consider that the community having taxed itself and provided a large amount of capital for the construction of a pipeline need not necessarily go to the further trouble of taxing itself in order to provide the interest on the money which it has previously taxed to provide itself with funds to build a pipeline. It is possible to consider this point because there is no competition here. It is not a matter of a government enterprise unfairly competing with a private enterprise. It is purely a matter of how most cheaply a commodity which is vital to the interests of Australia can be moved from one part of Australia to another, though we would also need to consider that there would be perhaps some of this commodity which would be exported from Australia, perhaps to the benefit of multi-national companies which we would not particularly wish to help. But nevertheless this whole field, I would suggest, is one to which we could well look when considering the price that should be charged and how it is made up. 
Thirdly, I point out that in the Bill there is no obligation placed on the Authority to accept and transport hydrocarbons from whatever source someone wishes to supply them, and there should be such an obligation placed on this Authority. It should not be in a situation in which it can accept business from some fields and some companies and reject business from other fields and other companies without reason - or perhaps for all sorts of reasons including perhaps, wrong reasons. It should be, as a public utility, required to be a common carrier, in the sense in which the railways are a common carrier, and to accept, from whatever source they may come, the goods which it has to transport to the other end. It should be required to act as a common carrier. 
It is proposed that the Authority may buy and sell hydrocarbons on its own account. There may be good reason for that; I am not yet fully convinced that there is, but I can see that there could be reasons why this should on occasion be done. I understand that it was not ever intended that it is to be the only buyer and seller and that it is to prevent other people buying and selling; I did hear some suggestion that that was so but I understand that is not so. But if the authority is to buy and sell hydrocorbons on its own account there must be provision to ensure that it cannot charge itself less for transportation than it charges others who have a similar commodity being transported. It would again, I think, be an improper use of a public utility of great value if it were able to buy and sell and, because of that power, charge itself less and put itself in a position of unfair competition with others who wish to have the same goods transported through its pipeline. 
In addition, I think the Authority should not be permitted to buy and sell at a profit whether the sale is made at home or abroad. If it is to be properly used, it will be a transportation authority and not a trading authority. It is probably true that it should have the power to buy and sell on its own account but I think that the points which I have raised are absolutely essential if this is to be not only successful but also a fair use of public money for the public benefit. 
Yes, for use and not for significant profit, though I see no reason why a public utility should not make some reasonable profit for the benefit of the people to whom the profit goes. The Authority should not have the power to discriminate between producers. I have indicated a general approval of the concept and the purposes of this Authority. I have raised no objection to its being run as a public authority and a public utility but I have pointed out some real dangers which need to be recognised and guarded against because I would not wish in any circumstances to see this Authority, which is set up to provide a service to the people of Australia and to provide as cheap a fuel as is possible for the people of Australia to get, do something which it could do if these dangers are not guarded against. It could become an instrument of nationalisation, driving private firms and private companies out of business. I do not think the Authority has been set up to do this but I think it could if safeguards were not provided, as I hope they will be by amendments to the Bill. 
In direct contradistinction to the previous  speaker  on this side of the House, my colleague the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I wish to make it perfectly clear that I support the Bill and have no intention whatsoever of voting for the amendment. I express support for the Bill and, if I may be permitted to say so, I feel great satisfaction that it appears that it will now pass this House of Parliament. It should have been passed 3 years ago and on other occasions since then. The national interest required it to be passed then, and the national interest will be served if it is passed now. Indeed, it is a little ironical to reflect that had it been passed previously, before it was introduced by the present Government, the States were assured and had been assured of even more generous royalty treatment than they are getting under the existing petroleum legislation. It now appears that they will not receive those benefits. But they have little more than themselves to blame if this turns out to be the fact. 
I must make it clear that this Bill will not decide the question of whether the national Government or the State governments have legal sovereignty over the waters around our coast. It was always realised that a Bill of this kind could not decide that. But what the Bill does do, and why I support it, is that it opens the way for that question to be decided, and decided by the proper tribunal - the High Court of Australia. It ought to be decided. We are told that there ought to be conferences between the national Government and the State governments on this matter. There have been innumerable conferences on this matter between representatives of the national Government and the State government. They have been going on and on over a period of years. Despite what has been said in this chamber, I submit that no progress was made on the central question - the question of who in fact has sovereignty over Australia's seas at any of those conferences. From communiques issued to us, it appeared that the meetings reached no agreement except an agreement not to try to solve the central matter at all and not to try to put the question of sovereignty beyond doubt by the only method open to this Parliament - passing legislation making an assertion and allowing the body set up under the Constitution to determine the matter to determine the matter. 
So, if we can judge on past evidence, there seems little point now in saying that action should be further delayed while there are more conferences, when in fact all the conference so far held on this central matter have been abortive. On the plain ground of common sense, they would continue to be abortive; they must continue to be abortive. How can one reach co-operative agreement with anybody on anything about what should be done in certain circumstances when one does not know what those circumstances are? How in the world can one hope in that way, when there are different vested interests, to reach some kind of a conclusion? The only way to do it is to find out what the circumstances are; and then by all means have discussions as to whether and how there should be or could be co-operative measures, but have them under a set of rules which are known, definite, final and finite. That is why I support the Bill as it is before us now. 
I do not believe that, if this matter is resolved in this way - even if the resolution is supported by a judgment of the High Court, as I believe it will be - it will clear up all matters at stake. There will still be areas in which there will be legal questions in doubt, which have been adverted to by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and other speakers with legal knowledge. But merely because it will not clear up all legal matters in doubt is surely no reason for not clearing up some of the basic legal matters in doubt - the basic legal matter in doubt. Then the others, of course, will tend to be cleared up later. I cannot understand the argument that, because this Bill does not settle everything, it should be rejected so that it settles nothing. I simply find that an impossible argument to accept. 1 believe, with others who have spoken here previously and in other parliaments, that it is not just a question of mining codes with which we are concerned, important as that may be. A mining code affects not only the minerals taken from the sea and the royalties charged on them but also the questions of what is done to the seabed when mining takes place, whether currents are altered, what happens to the ecology and what is changed. There needs to be one central authority to see that in some part of Australia, under a government of some part of Australia, action is not taken which damages that which belongs to all the people of Australia. For example, there is the question of whether drilling should or should not take place on the Barrier Reef, whether reefs should be mined for aggregate for cement - a whole variety of questions which are national matters however one looks at them. 
The honourable member for New England adverted to pollution. He mentioned one instance where there were difficulties - I remember them well because I, too, was in office at that time - which ought not to have been difficulties, which were overcome and for which special action should not have had to be taken in order to overcome them. In a situation in which special action has to be taken to overcome some problem of that kind, it is always possible for the other party not to allow it to be overcome. This is not a situation in which Australian governments should be placed. The matters of control of fisheries and the conservation of fisheries, looked at in a proper way, are matters which in my view ought to be under the control of the national Parliament but which, I submit, in anybody's view call for a decision as to whether they are or are not under the control of the national Parliament. 
What are the arguments that have been advanced against taking this step? I leave out of consideration some of the arguments advanced by some representatives of State governments because they boil down, in my view, to a simple statement that they do not want to have the matter resolved; they just do not want to find out what the position is. Other than those, various arguments have been put forward. All I can say is that to me they seem to have the venerable charm of antiquity and nothing else. One of the arguments put forward against the Bill is that it will not completely dispose of the matter. It will not. But it makes a start on disposing of it and it will dispose, one way or the other, of the central matter. I can only express a hope that if the High Court should not support the assertion of sovereignty in this Bill - I shudder to think of it - some government will go to the people and ask them at a referendum to give it that power. 
It is said that the mining code in the Bill is not satisfactory. I express no opinion on that subject, but I point this out: If the main principle of the Bill is acceded to and upheld by the High Court, clearly any national government will have the authority to bring in a mining code. This is assuming that the High Court will uphold that principle; therefore suggesting that a mining code could be brought in under it. If the High Court does not uphold the principle, the mining code means nothing because the Parliament would not have the power to make it. If it does uphold the principle, a government with a majority in either House could bring in any rnining code it liked and then we could discuss the rights and wrongs of it. It has been suggested to us that perhaps there would be difficulties because the States might not provide the land facilities which would be necessary for off-shore mining. Although that argument is advanced in good faith I do not know whether it is expected that anybody would take any notice of it. Can anybody imagine a State government saying: 'You the Commonwealth, or you the mining company which the Commonwealth has licensed - say, Hamersley if there is a new Hamersley company - cannot use the land on the coast of our State, be it Western Australia or South Australia'. Surely nobody can really suggest that that would happen. I suppose one reason why it might not happen is that if any State government were ill-advised enough to try it - I am sure that they would not be - the Commonwealth in pursuit of a Commonwealth objective could acquire land under the Constitution and then use it. But this is an argument of which I think we need take no notice at all. We are told that in America and Canada the whole matter has not been cleared up. I do not think we have been given a full and accurate story on what has happened in the United States or in Canada in regard to these matters. We hear of a lot of money in escrow. I believe it is only in one part; I believe it is only in the Gulf of Florida. I believe there are other matters concerned with this which are not the central matters which we are discussing now. 
Putting those arguments to one side, I have heard no other argument advanced as to why a national parliament in which every Party represented asserted that the national Parliament has authority over these water* - and every Party in this place asserts that - but which is challenged by State counter-claims should not take action to make that assertion a fact and test it in the proper way as is laid down in the Constitution. For my part, if we assert in the Liberal Party, as we do, that we have authority in the national Parliament over these waters, it seems pusillanimous not to test that assertion when it is in the national interest to do so. 
As far as the amendment is concerned, I think I have indicated why I would not myself vote to support it. I am not of the opinion that consultations with the States for a cooperative regime should commence forthwith. I am of the opinion that this Bill should be passed and tested and that then there should be discussions with the States under circumstances which are then known and, where reasonable arrangements can be made, they should be made. But that would have to be, in its turn, a matter for discussion. I reiterate that I cannot see how the Government can have consultations in a given situation when it does not know what the situation is. That is why I support the Bill. That is why I do not propose to vote for the amendment. Before I sit down I want to reiterate what was said by a Senate select committee which perhaps puts more succinctly than I have the conclusions of the case. The Committee said: 
The Committee considers that, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation- 
That is, the mirror legislation - and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
This Bill is aimed to ensure that the larger national interest is served by resolving the uncertain extent of State and Commonwealth authority. For that reason I support it. Indeed, if I may say so, it was for that reason that I introduced it at another time. 
The Prime Minister will remember that a few minutes ago he informed the honourable member for Farrer that the month's long delay in the construction of the gas pipeline was due to the actions of the Liberal Party in the Senate. Since the Bill to construct the pipeline only passed through this House at the end of last week and was introduced in the Senate only this week, and since debate on it already has started, will he agree that his attribution of delay to the actions of the Liberal Party in the Senate is ill based, erroneous and misleading? 
The Opposition has no objection. Indeed, it accedes to and agrees with the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Whitlam)  agreed to: 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of the resolution agreed to by the House of 
Representatives. 
 I wish to join with the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in expressing disappointment that the Government has refused to accept this simple amendment which can in no way affect the actual operations taken under the Bill. If this new authority is to be responsible for regional development as well as city development, and we are told that it has an interest there, what is the reason for this obstinate refusal to put the words 'regional development' into the title of the authority? I can only suppose that the importance of regional development as compared to the importance of city development is being played down and that this is an indication of the Government's approach, because good as it is for Albury-Wodonga or Bathurst-Orange to be developed, there are regions around them which are equally important. The whole thing needs to be developed. Here we have in an overt way a refusal by the Government to put into the description of its authority the responsibility for that kind of development. All I can say is this: I hope that the people living in regions throughout this country will note what the Government has refused to do. I hope those on this side of the House will use every opportunity to bring to the attention of country dwelling members the fact that the Government has refused to put into this Bill a responsibility for regional development. I will leave it to them to draw thenown conclusions that this may well be another example of the bias against the countryside and against country dwellers which has been shown in various other actions of this Government. 
It would be a simple, gracious and reasonable thing to do to put into this Bill the title which properly describes it. If it is not done we can only draw our own conclusions and regret the conclusions that we have to draw. 
by leave- I am more than glad that this Bill has been introduced. It does bring to fruition and conclusion a very admirable initiative taken by the Government before last. For myself, I agree with the lines on which it is to be established and the tasks which it is to carry out. The 5- acre site which is to be bought from the Macquarie University will be adequate for the school. But I would suggest to the Government that the establishment of the school in this place and on this site gives an opportunity for the acquisition of a greater area and if it were acquired it would be possible at some time in the future to position on that area other cultural schools such as the National Institute of Dramatic Art or a ballet development school, or organisations of that kind which, being in juxtaposition in the one area could, as it were, cross-fertilise each other in the process. This was a matter once considered by the Interim Committee. 
I point out that if this were done there would certainly be an initial expense - that is, if a larger area were bought now - but that would either be repaid by the establishment of these other schools in the same area or, if that establishment did not come about, the Commonwealth Government could not but make a profit by disposing of the area after having held it for a while. I know that this is not directly connected with the Bill but what I have suggested does not detract in any way from the proposition. I ask the Government  to have a further look at this matter to see whether a cultural complex of this kind could not be established and this proposal followed to the advantage of all of the performing arts in Australia. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has said, this matter has been discussed before. The Opposition believes, just as strongly as the Minister, that the establishment of a committee of this kind could be of great advantage and could avoid some of the existing difficulties and impediments to conservation. 1 give an example of what I have in mind. There was, in the area from which I come in the north of Victoria, a time when wild duck used to fly in in such numbers that one could hardly see the sky. This was before people had cars and shotguns. It was then decided that the wild duck should be conserved, so the New South Wales Government brought in conservation measures, the Victorian Government brought in conservation measures and the South Australian Government brought in conservation measures. One government would say that these ducks could be shot on a certain date because the young ones had grown sufficiently to look after themselves; another government would say they could be shot on a different date and yet another government would say they could be shot on another date. It occurred to me that we ought to look at this from the point of view of the duck. Obviously it would have to be a very highly educated bird to know where the State boundary was and whether it was safe to cross it on one day and not safe to cross it on another. This does sound slightly amusing but it has a great bearing on conservation matters generally which are subject, of course, for Commonwealth and State concern but which can be overcome by only one approach. 1 hope that perhaps committees of this kind, co-operating with the States, may lead to that approach. 
As one who has made it quite clear that he is not opposed to this concept of a national gas pipeline, I want to express a measure of dismay and apprehension that this Senate amendment is not acceptable to the Government. I think it is an apprehension which the people of Australia ought to share. The purposes of the Senate amendment were to prevent the possibility of the Pipeline Authority's discriminating between one producer and another for any reason which seemed to be good to the Authority, and from perhaps ruining one producer and advantaging another with no recourse for those producers who felt that they were badly treated and, indeed, with no recourse to this Parliament because the Authority is apparently to be entirely autonomous. One of the main reasons for this amendment was to prevent this kind of discrimination. I do have dismay and apprehension that this is not an approach acceptable to the Government. 
Another reason for it was to prevent a different kind of discrimination, that is, the charging of different prices to different producers for the use of a pipeline which should be available to all. That is another example of action which, taken by an authority outside the control of this Parliament, could very gravely damage the interests of particular producers who would have no recourse if their interests were so damaged. Indeed, the reasons given by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in the speech he has just made for rejecting the amendments, or one of them, is that there would be a difficulty if various gases were mixed into the pipeline. There may be something in that. But does it mean, as one could come to the conclusion it means, that the only gas which will be transported through this pipeline is the gas that is bought by the Authority? If it is impossible to mix gases from the various producers, and particularly to separate them after they get to a processing plant, it would seem that we could be well entitled with some apprehension to believe that this will be not only a carrier pipeline but also the monopoly pipeline which will  carry  only fuel and gas bought by the  Authority,  except for the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd's gas. I believe that that would not be the proper way to use a national pipeline ring of which, in principle, I approve but which I think would be very badly used if it were used in this way. 
There is another reason why I have apprehension about the refusal of the Government to accept this amendment. As the Bill stands it would be perfectly possible, particularly if the only gas to be transported were to be gas bought by the Authority, for the Authority to buy gas and transport it to the only processing plant somewhere in Australia - that gas being the Authority's property - and process it there and export it, thereby getting for itself an export premium which ought to be available to the explorers and producers who found the gas field in the first place. These are all dangers which should be guarded against. If we do not have the numbers to see that they are guarded against here on this occasion and if the arguments we put forward fall on deaf ears, we will have a responsibility - there is a demand on us - to point out to the people of Australia and the producers in Australia that these hidden dangers do exist, to tell them that these problems are there and to give an undertaking that at the first opportunity we have to be a government again we will, while we are happy to continue the general concept, not be happy to continue a regime where individual producers - those who risked their capital to find the fields - are being discriminated against either one against the other or one against a Government owned authority that is not subject even to the Government. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  finished by urging in quite strong language that this matter should come to a vote today. As to that, it is in the hands of the Government whether it comes to a vote today and he may argue with his colleagues in the Government on the matter. If the Government does not bring it to a vote today I think that the Government is quite right because there are a number of people in this Parliament who want to express their views on this matter. There should be nobody in this place who is prevented from expressing a view by early closure of the debate. However, the honourable member can argue that with his Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I do not have to get involved in that. 
I want to make it clear that I support the amendment and not the motion as it was moved. I also want to make it clear that supporting the amendment and not the motion cannot possibly have any effect on delaying the matter, as the honourable member for Burke has said. The motion calls for this House to vote in favour of a joint sitting. The amendment calls for this House to vote in favour of a joint sitting. There can be no delay as a result of voting for the amendment rather than voting for the motion as put forward originally. I support the amendment particularly because it does express an opinion of this House as to where this House believes the new parliament house should be sited. It gives this House an opportunity to do 2 things: First, to express its own opinion as to where the parliament house should be sited - I support the Camp Hill site, but that is a matter for each individual to decide - and at the same time it calls for the House to vote for a joint sitting for the matter to be discussed by both Houses. There cannot be any delay as a result of voting for the amendment as distinct from voting for the motion. 
As a result of voting for the amendment there can be an opportunity for honourable members to express their views as this House individually has the right to express a view as to where it thinks the house should be sited. 
I was surprised to hear statements made that there has been no positive planning done and that we do not have things before us and we ought to be getting along far more quickly. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has produced a brochure which serves 2 purposes. It provides for those who were not in the Parliament before and who have not studied this matter before, a great deal of educational material. It also sets out what is proposed to be done and how it is proposed to be done. With that made available to all honourable members. I do not see how an honourable member can get up in this place and suggest that no proposals have been put forward, no plans have been put forward and that we do not know where we are. There may be an objection taken by some honourable members to the particular plans in the brochure. But he cannot say that the brochure has not been produced and that it does not show the plans which this House can follow out if it agrees to the motion. 
As for the construction of the new parliament house in stages on Camp Hill and the suggestion that edifices of this kind cannot be constructed in stages, I think that all I need to do is to point out that most of the big public buildings in Canberra have been or are being constructed in stages, including the National Library and the National Art Gallery. There is no indication that these buildings will be bad or unable to be proceeded with because they are being constructed in stages. There will be no reason that the new parliament house cannot be proceeded with merely because it is constructed in stages. I urge that when a vote is taken on this matter - that is a matter for the Government - the House should support the amendment because the arguments put forward by the previous speaker do not stand up to any intelligent analysis at all. The amendment gives the House, and each member in it, an opportunity not only to decide to call for a joint sitting but also to express an opinion where this House believes the new house should be sited. I believe that this House should have that opportunity and should take that opportunity before a joint sitting takes place. I merely conclude by saying once again that voting for the amendment, if it is passed, will have the effect of saying where we think the new parliament house should be built. Voting for the motion will call for a joint meeting. There cannot be any delay as a result of voting for the amendment rather than voting for the motion and, for the reasons I have given, I hope the House will vote for the amendment. 
 I shall speak only very briefly because there is very little of a finite kind on which to speak in the report that has been put before us. I do not cavil at the idea of putting before the House of Parliament a report indicating the sorts of things that may be done in the future or the sort of thinking the Government has in its mind. That is in fact virtually all that is in this report, except for the increase in the amount of money provided for special tourist activities. The rest is simply an indication of what may or may not be done. I presume that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  would have said something would be done, if he knew what would be done, or what may or may not be done after he has his next fight with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and any of his colleagues in the Cabinet who support the Treasurer. I do not get at the Minister on this. I just know that that is likely to be what the situation is. 
This is a report which is good. It is rather like the case of the man who says that he is against sin. The Minister is in favour of tourism, and so he ought to be. He is the Minister who promotes tourism. So are all honourable members in favour of tourism. When some real finite prospects, some real policies, some real proposals are put before us, if indeed that ever happens, we will be able to delve into them in a far more significant way because there will be some hard argument to have. I think it is good that there has been an allocation of $570,000. I am not quite sure what it means when the Minister said that there is a cost of promoting domestic tourism. Promoting tourism usually means advertising. If it means that the Government is to spend this amount of money on advertising for private industry, private owners of tourist hotels and so on, 1 congratulate the Government on moving a little further away than I thought it would from its basic socialist philosophies. Also in this ephemeral report we are warned that the Government is considering investing taxpayers' money to get equity participation in businesses which may or may not turn out to be successful. I think that it is a quite dangerous proposition to suggest that governments should provide money which is not theirs but which is raised by taxpayers to gain an equity in building a new hotel. 
You are quite right. I have not even attacked the Government for setting aside S2m to brainwash the Australian people about its own proposals. This is a sheer advertisement. You know what the sum of money involved is to be and you can at the end of each year examine it and see whether it should be less or more. It is a quite different proposition from risk investment - and this is risk investment which we are warned may take place. As I say, we can leave a more direct discussion on this matter until we have found out whether the Treasurer agrees with this, because I would be quite positive that unless there has been  a  revolution in Treasury thinking this would  be  a rather difficult proposition to get through. 
I know. I have also known other Assistant Treasurers and I know the effect they have had on Treasury and Treasurers' thinking. You think that he is different. Time will tell. All I can say is at the moment we have only an indication of the intentions, some of which are good, some of which are not good. I seek leave to continue  my  remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debated adjourned. 
Sifting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
At the outset 1 wish the thank the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for having made available to me yesterday a copy of the speech which he delivered today. 
But having said that, I would like to point out to him, in case he has not noticed it, that there is in today's 'Australian Financial Review' a complete breakdown of the moneys proposed to be distributed by the Minister and his Department - a greater breakdown even than that which appears in the Minister's speech today. I suggest that it is not treating this House with really proper consideration for these matters to be given to the newspapers and published in the newspapers before the opportunity to debate them in this House arises. 
The Minister has indicated that the details were not given to the newspapers by him or by anyone of whom he knows, and I accept that, but I think that the greatest of care should be taken to see that this does not in fact happen. The Opposition does not object to the general principles enunciated in this statement. I put aside some of the remarks which I would regard as political sniping and which I think neither affect the proposals in the statement nor adorn the speech. Rather, I want to get down to a consideration of the actual principles themselves. There are some matters to which I think we can raise objection not in principle but in the method of operation. There are other areas in which I believe we need a good deal more information than in fact has been provided to this House so far. 
We do not object to the principle of creating new regional cities, nor do we object to the idea of creating system cities which, in the speech, are described as being on the fringes of the existing metropolitan areas. I trust that they would be a reasonable distance away and that the fringe would not be too narrow. Of course, we do not object to the principle of improving the facilities in the existing cities of Melbourne and Sydney which we agree are overcrowded and arc growing too fast, and their growth ought to be diminished. Nor, of course, can any reasonable man have any objection to studies being carried out in various parts of Australia in order to seek to decide where the best opportunities are provided to establish new cities or where the best areas are in the vicinity of existing cities. I hope the Minister will realise that these studies, which I am glad to see will be tabled in this House, are not necessarily to be accepted by this House as being the last definitive word on the matter; but that they will be regarded purely as a starting point for discussion which has been arrived at by consideration by people who have studied in this field. 
There are a number of other matters to which I would like to refer. The first one is the statement - and it is a clear statement - that 'subject to the areas selected for assistance in this program being acceptable to the various State governments, and subject to mutually acceptable arrangements for it being worked out between the Australian Government and respective State governments, the national Government is allocating $33m in its new city program as repayable loans'. I would like the House to consider why this money is being provided in the form of repayable loans. It is almost certain that the money will not be raised on the market as a loan but that it will come from revenue collected by the Commonwealth Government. In our previous discussions with the States on CommonwealthState financial relations, one of the valid objections made by the States - and sometimes they did have a valid objection - was that the Commonwealth had, for a long time, been collecting money in the form of revenue, making it available under the name of a loan to the States, and charging the States interest on that money - thereby greatly increasing the cost to the States of anything on which that money was spent - and pretending that it was only loan money when in fact it was not. We, as a Government, were so impressed by this argument that we embarked on a program of relieving the States of the charges on some $ 1,000m of the money which had been provided from revenue by way of a loan. 
This to me seems to be a retrograde step. It seems to me to be a step which is going back to the idea of collecting money from revenue, pretending it is loan funds and charging interest on it, thereby raising the cost - and it will raise the cost - of establishing cities, and raising the cost to everybody who lives in those cities after they are established. I do not know what interest rate will be charged - we have not been told that - but let us suppose that a rate of 6 per cent is charged. It is quite clear that on this first advance of $33m and on the future advances which will be required if this idea of making this money repayable loans is to be adhered to, there will be a great increase in cost to the cities and it will be a retrograde step on the part of the Commonwealth-State financial relations. 
I seriously suggest to the Government that not only in this field - I now express a personal opinion when I go beyond this field - but also in many other fields of Government expenditure - whether it is done by the Federal Government or by a State government with money provided out of revenue and where there is no competition in the establishment of such facilities, private enterprise competing with the Government - the Government could well consider going much further in providing grants rather than interest payable loans. I believe that in this case this should certainly be something that the Government does. It is one great defect in the statement. 
The second thing that disturbs me is what is contained in the same paragraph of the statement to which I have referred. It states:  . . subject to mutually acceptable arrangements . . . being worked out between the Australian Government and respective State governments . . . 
But we are not told precisely or even generally - except in a very general way - what arrangements would be acceptable to the Commonwealth. They have to be mutally acceptable. But what would be acceptable to the Commonwealth? If we are to take what has happened in this field in Western Australia as an indication of What would be acceptable to the Commonwealth, then I believe that this House should not give such a b ank cheque because I believe that what has happened in this field in Western Australia is an infringement on the proper and just rights of individual Australian citizens and is completely bad in principle. There has been introduced in Western Australia, through the Western Australian Parliament, by a Government of the same persuasion as the Commonwealth Government and I believe - I may be wrong - as a result of discussions between the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government, provisions for land acquisition which I do not believe this House should accept because the results of this action have been that land can be declared, that is, frozen, and nobody is able to raise a mortgage on the land or to sell the land. Even if probate is required, people cannot get rid of their land, once it has been declared, for an indefinite length of time. 
There is no limit on the amount of time for which this land can be frozen and not used by the Government and not able to be used by the individual. That must surely be wrong. Also, there is no indication in what has happened in Western Australia - and I think we can take that as a pilot scheme for what is happening here - as to what price is to be paid for land when it is acquired. We can understand the proposition that at the time the study is being carried out and for a reasonable period of time to allow that study to be carried out, there should not be an avenue for speculators to enter the area and push land prices up. We can understand that. We cannot understand that it is right or proper to put a blanket prohibition on the use of land for an indefinite period of time. This was done in New South Wales on one occasion in the case of soldier settlement blocks. 
No, but it was done and it caused a great deal of hardship and a great deal of injustice. I am not throwing this at anybody. I am saying that it happened and it can happen again. On the indications of what has happened in Western Australia, it is likely to happen again unless the Minister tells us- 
The Minister now informs me - the House will be interested to know this - that he has agreed with Western Australia that whenever there is a case of hardship the Commonwealth Government will acquire the land. I take it that the Minister means that the land will be acquired under the constitutional requirement of a just price. 
That is What I was coming to. That is another great weakness, I think, in this statement. The Commonwealth Constitution provides that when land is acquired from a private citizen a just price must be paid and that if a just price is not paid the citizen may resort to the courts which will decide whether the price offered is just or not. The Constitution gives an individual citizen a protection against big government. 
We are talking about something that the Minister said the Commonwealth was to acquire. He went on to say that although this was to be acquired it would not be acquired under conditions which required just terms of acquisition. He has made those 2 statements to the House. 
Let us have a debate later. There really is quite a serious principle involved here. If land is to be acquired, it appears that it will be mutually acceptable to the States and the Commonwealth for the States to acquire the land although they do not have the legal obligation to pay anything for that land. They can set any price on it they like and the Commonwealth can avoid having to pay a just price. I believe this is entirely wrong. I can understand that if an area were selected for study a just price would be the price for that area before it was gazetted as being accepted for study. 
There is in Western Australia. 
There is in Westeran Australia. Land obviously is going to be acquired. I take it that even the honourable member for Robertson would agree that if we are to build a new city in some place we have  to  acquire the land somehow at some stage. The point I make is that, although we were not told so in this statement, it has now become completely apparent that the Commonwealth, although it is the driving force behind all this, will not acquire the land. Instead it will get the States to acquire the land, thereby removing one protection which an individual citizen ought to have. Let me reiterate that I am not suggesting that the Commonwealth should have to pay an inflated price as a result of the selection of an area on which a city may be built. 
No. I am not. 
A just price could be the price - to use the words of the Minister - the day before the announcement was made to acquire the land or that the land  had been  selected for study. But there is no indication that that just price is to be paid. 
The Minister has asked me what is the just price of land.  He is the one  who is going to acquire all this land. Surely to goodness, if he does not know at least  we  could go to the courts in accordance with the Constitution and act in a proper way by leaving it to somebody who does know. 
The Minister wants me to follow him down some little  corridor. He  actually said: 'What is the just price of Lanyon?' I believe it will be the price that is finally determined by any legal action that the owners of Lanyon might take. But that is not the point in this instance. It is not a laughing matter that land can be acquired without a just price being paid for it and really by a subterfuge.  (Extension of time granted.)  1 thank the House and I thank the Minister. I will not take up  a  great deal more time. The points I have raised should be deep in everybody's mind. Another point which will be developed by my colleague the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and  which  is quite apart from the point about which I have been speaking is that overseas experience has shown that on many occasions there is great detriment to individual citizens when  an  area is selected for study. People suffer hardship. They have their rights impringed upon. I will leave it to my colleague to develop that point and to show just  how  that  has  happened and what is being done about it in other countries. 
I will move on to discuss the acquisition of land - it would do the Minister an awful lot of good to listen to my remarks instead of speaking to somebody else - in the Mornington Peninsula, Dandenong Ranges and Western Port areas in order to protect those areas. This is a good objective and one, subject to what I have said before, to which I would not object at all. But might it not be a reasonable approach for the Commonwealth, having decided to take this action in this field, to have wider ranging talks with State governments on the provision of finance for national parks and for those national parks to be placed under the control of a commission - call it what you will - drawn from State government and Commonwealth Government sources? 
You can call it something else if you like. It should not be a commission consisting of public servants such as the commissions which are proliferating in this place. The parks would merely be withdrawn from the direct control of a State or the Commonwealth and placed under the control of the commission. The Commonwealth could provide for those national parks - the time has come to select national parks throughout Australia - a nationally financed corps of park rangers to make sure that those who enter that land do not destroy it. There should be available to the people engaged in such a corps an opportunity for promotion in national parks throughout Australia instead of merely within one State. 1 suggest that that could well be an improvement and it would be properly described as a new initiative, lt strikes me as odd to hear the Minister describe the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement as a new initiative and the Commonwealth - State Housing Agreement as a new initiative. I had been under the impression that they had been in operation for many years, but perhaps he or his colleagues have changed them a little. 
One thing that this speech does make clear is that this Government requires that the new city to be developed in the Geelong area should be run by a development corporation, which I take to be something like the National Capital Development Commission, with authority, subject to the State Minister and the Commonweath Minister, to act as the NCDC acts as a planning body. I do not raise objection to that proposal. I think that Canberra is a clear indication of the success which can be achieved by the use of a planning body similar in nature to the NCDC. But what the speech does not make clear is whether the other areas referred to  -  Townsville, Gladstone and areas in Tasmania - also are to be placed under such development commissions. This, of course, would require State government acceptance of the idea. If these areas were placed under development commissions it would enable really proper development, such as we have seen the model for in this city, to take place. 
For ourselves, I would finish by saying this: There seeks to be made in this speech some impression that no efforts have been made by the previous Government to develop areas outside of capital cities. This is not true. This particular approach has not been accepted, but I merely need to bring to the attention of the House the specific decisions made for this purpose in deciding, for example, to site the military establishment at Townsville, in deciding to push forward with the Townsville University - all of these with Government expenditure - the Townsville Teachers College, and the establishment there of the Institute of Marine Biology. These things were specifically designed to try to see that that area was built up as far as could be done with Commonwealth funds. If we can go further and if we can get the States to agree to place the whole planning of that area, which is growing fast as a result of the previous Government's actions, then the previous Government's actions will have been thoroughly justified and brought to an even more successful conclusion. 
When this Bill was previously introduced into the House I had a few words to say on the matter and I have very little to add now. I do, however, wish to reiterate quite strongly something which I suggested at the time. That suggestion was to support the establishment of the Film and Television School on the site of 5 acres which is being bought from Macquarie University. But it was also to urge the Government to consider once again acquiring a larger site in the same area in Macquarie University, a full 30 acres if possible, so that there could be established in that area contiguous to each other a number of training schools concerned with the creative and artistic endeavours of the country. The suggestion was that there should be set up not only the Film and Television School but also the National Institute of Dramatic Art, or another institute of dramatic art, and the Ballet School, so that possibly there could be a cross-fertilisation of these particular areas of creative arts, and other arts. 
I have heard some objections to this proposal which I think carry very little weight. The major objection has been that the exist ing controllers of the National Institute of Dramatic Art or of the Ballet School do not wish at this stage to move to any new location. This may or may not be true. But a nation is not going to stay indefinitely frozen at one level of population or at one requirement for opportunities to train people in dramatic arts. Anybody who says that because somebody now does not wish to move to a new location and therefore that no new location should be provided is completely overlooking the fact that nations grow and that there can be a requirement for a duplication, if you like, of the National Institute of Dramatic Art and a requirement for a new ballet school, including the one that we have, for music direction and for other matters. It seems to me to make this idea more difficult, if not impossible, by refusing to acquire this additional area. It is merely an indication of a complete lack of vision and a complete lack of understanding of what the Australian community may require in the future. 
This may be our last opportunity to establish such a complex in Australia. It seems to me that it is a case where it is impossible for the Government to lose because if this area of land is acquired now and if it is not ultimately used for the purposes for which I suggest it may be used, then without any doubt at all the Government can dispose of the land at some later stage, having the added charm of novelty that almost certainly a very great profit would accrue to the Government when the time came for that disposal. I hope it is not considered that I am in any way seeking to criticise the Government on this proposal. I am not. The proposal has extended over far more than one government. I am merely doing what I can to say that I hope that this last opportunity to buy in one area land where a complex concerned with all of these creative arts can be built will not be passed up at this stage. From the point of view of the Government and of the artistic community, it is a case of 'Heads I win, tails you lose', because there cannot be a loss to the Government by going ahead. 
Thereis one other matter to which I wish to refer. It is not directly connected with this Bill, but I think that it is sufficiently closely connected with it and its objectives to be in order and I hope that you,  Mr Speaker,  will agree with that view. The establishment of the Film and Television School is basically a desire to see that there is as much excellence as possible in those who direct and produce films, those who light them, those who design the scenery - those engaged in all the technical aspects of films. This, of course, is good. Added to it is the desire to teach people how to write film scripts. The whole of that is good. But what is equally necessary is that once this institute to provide technical excellence is established and once that in turn produces Australian films of high standard, those films should have an opportunity of being shown to the Australian public. 
Tied up with the concept of this Bill providing excellence and with the Film Development Corporation providing finance for the making of Australian films is also a requirement that there should be provided to those who make these films a full opportunity to show them to the Australian people. That is part of the whole complex. At the moment this is not being done. At present the 2 large overseas chains of theatre owners in Australia make it almost impossible for an Australian film to be shown at their theatres. No one expects them to show a film that loses money but one expects them to show an Australian film that makes money, even if its does not make as much money as they would make from an imported film. In addition, the independent theatre owners - there are diminishing numbers of them - are finding it difficult to get films which are brought to Australia from overseas makers and are in danger of being crowded out of business altogether. If that should happen that area for the distribution and the showing of Australian films also would be lost. 
I notice that  Dr Coombs  has suggested that some action might be taken to buy or run theatres to show Australian films. I suggest that we might go further and that the Government might well consider taking some action to persuade overseas film distributors to show Australian films. Such persuasive action can be taken, I suppose, through various taxation measures which would take account of the number of Australian films shown. Action also can be taken to try to protect Australian independent owners of theatres in this nation. As I said, this is not directly connected with the Bill but clearly it is an extension of the desire expressed in the Bill and one which I urge the Government to study. Other than this I can only express great satisfaction that the Australian Film and Television School is being established and great hopes that steps will not stop there. 
I wish to speak to this motion for about 3 minutes only, mostly to reiterate what has been said on behalf of the Opposition. It should be clear to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that the Opposition does not oppose the motion. Indeed, my colleague, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  made it quite clear that he did not oppose the motion. In making his remarks he was pefectly entitled to point to a few oddities in the present situation, even if he did use Gilbert and Sullivan words in doing so. He could have gone further in referring to this proliferation of committees and quoted the well known quatrain: 
Big  fleas have little  fleas 
Upon  their  backs to  bite  'em, 
And  little fleas have littler  fleas, 
And so on, ad  infinitum. 
That seems to be the way parliamentary committees tend to be proliferating. However it is necessary to examine the working of committees particularly, as has been pointed out very cogently, as one of the major reasons that the present committees are unable to do their work acceptably results from what the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has done in greatly extending the sitting times of the House thereby infringing on the capacity and possibility of committees performing their work profitably. The Opposition therefore is happy to try to help overcome the results of the mistake the Leader of the House made in this direction. We must, however, make the further point that this is a proposal for a joint committee. Members of the Opposition in this House are happy to support the proposal but it must be made clear that there are 2 Houses in this Parliament and each House must decide separately whether its members will serve on such a joint committee. 
One member of the Labor Party sought the abolition of the Senate, which I understand is in the Labor Party's platform. However, the Labor Party has gone a little slowly on that proposal lately, but if the honourable member for Robertson, who just interjected, wants to do that I suggest that he consults with the Leader of the House and has a committee set up to investigate that proposal. It must be made clear that both Houses have to agree before there can be any joint Committee, that the Senate has a right to make a separate decision and that Opposition members in this House would not question that right should the Senate make a decision different from the decision of this House. However, the Opposition in this House supports the motion. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When is it expected that the public authority will be established which the Government has decided to set up for the purpose of developing a shopping mall in the town centre of Belconnen. 
When may the people of Belconnen expect that this shopping centre will be open for business. 
I want to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented by the Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones).  The Minister stated that the announcement was made by me that we would not be establishing a second Sydney airport at Towra Point without any proper or technical consideration; that the announcement was made purely on political grounds. He has made similar statements before and I have not bothered to reply to them because I did not think that people would take much notice of him. However, as he is continuing to make similar statements I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The first point I want to make is that according to my recollection the paper presented to Cabinet at the time that a site for the second Sydney airport was being considered by the Department indicated that Towra Point was not one of the sites which the Department was considering. The Minister no doubt has access to papers to clarify that position. He can use them as he generally uses papers, even if they should be confidential, in which case I do not want them to be. It is my recollection that on technical grounds we were told that Towra Point was not one of the places being considered. 
Had the situation been different, had Towra Point been one of the places being considered and had there been departmental technical reasons for establishing Sydney's second airport at Towra Point I believe we would still not have selected that site because examinations were being conducted into the the possible results of establishing Sydney's second airport in that area. Some of those examinations were made by a Committee appointed by this Parliament comprising members from both sides of the Parliament. The Committee was to investigate the possible effects of aircraft noise on people living in that area. We were concerned. There was a study and it is quite clear that not only were the people in that area being seriously affected at the time by existing aircraft noise but further, had we chosen Towra Point the nuisance would have been multiplied very much indeed. 
We are concerned with the quality of life and with not making conditions worse for people. For 'those reasons and on environmental grounds - not for political purposes - I believe we would have come to the same conclusion even had there been technical reasons purely from a civil aviation point of view to support the establishment of an airport at Towra Point. It is perfectly clear that those considerations still obtained when the Minister for Transport either announced or arranged for an announcement to be made in the Press that regardless of environmental considerations he was going to put the new airport at Towra Point, a decision which was changed - although at the time it took no notice at all of environmental considerations - to Galston without any environmental examination whatsoever. 
It is a personal explanation in that I have been accused of making a decision previously on political grounds and I am explaining that there were grounds - environmental grounds - and that they were important grounds. I am pointing out the importance of these grounds. I believe that the House generally would consider that they were important, and therefore it is quite wrong-- 
I am sure the House does. 
The first point I make is that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  indicated what a frightful thing it was to suggest suspending Standing Orders in order to enable the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to make a statement. If honourable members cast their minds back a few minutes they will remember that I was to make a personal explanation in this House and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested that it would be better for a statement to be made on the matter. Therefore I sat down. So if the Postmaster-General has not heard of a motion to suspend Standing Orders in order to allow a statement to be made, at least the Prime Minister has; he suggested it. 
The second point I want to make arising out of the speech by the Postmaster-General is that I agree with him as to the great environmental damage and damage to the quality of life that would have been caused if an airport had been established at Towra. 
That is right, yes. The Postmaster-General has indicated that he would fight to the death for that. Obviously he would not be fighting me, and he would not be fighting us because we made a decision not to establish an airport at Towra. So let him carry on his fight with the Minister for Civil Aviation, which he appears to have won, but do not let him blame us for this sort of internecine quarrelling. 
The third point I want to make is that we are not raising this matter merely in the hope that somebody may be listening to the broadcast of these proceedings; we are raising it because we are concerned about the damage that can be done to the ordinary person's environment, comfort and quality of life - I have to use that phrase again - if an airport is established at Galston, just as we were concerned about the Mascot proposals. 
It is better to take a long time than to make the wrong decision and ignore the rights of individual citizens, which is what the proposal to establish an airport at Galston does, because let there be no question that if this proposal is proceeded with, not only will a great area of bushland near Sydney be destroyed, but goodness knows how many hills will have to be bulldozed down and how many valleys filled up. Not only the so-called silvertails, but also the ordinary people living in the areas around the proposed airport will have aircraft coming in over their heads day after day, hour after hour, and this ought to be something that is taken into consideration; pure technical matters should not be the only questions considered. 
There are perfectly good and proper reasons why we should move this motion to suspend Standing Orders at this stage. Let us look at the history of this matter. The first point that arose, as I said before, was that the Minister for Civil Aviation either announced, or arranged for it to be announced in the Sydney Press, that the decision had been taken to establish a new airport at Towra. No doubt the Postmaster-General and even the other Minister had something to say about that, but this was the initial announcement. The decision was taken regardless of any consideration of the environment in which the people would have to live. 
The next announcement a day or two later was that this was not so, that an airport was going to be established at Galston although .no proper environmental examination whatsoever had been made. The last I heard was an announcement by another Minister, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  at a dinner in Parramatta on Monday night that they had not made any decision at all. So it is really about time that we had a statement to tell us exactly what the situation is. Has there been any proper planning? Apparently there has not, or at least if there has been it has not been the joint planning that is required,  because  the New South Wales Government has made it perfectly clear that it has not been properly consulted and that it does not go along with this decision to establish an airport at Galston. 
Has a proper environmental study been made? Another Minister, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  indicated with great regret that he was not even able to get along to the Cabinet meeting to makea statement on the environment. If one had been made perhaps it was made by some sub-committee or by somebody else; but was it a proper one? Was it one that we would consider as perhaps we might consider an environmental study by a joint committee comprising members drawn from both sides of this House which was established to look into the damage to the environment done by this proposal? We, as a Government, appointed a committee comprising members from both sides of this House to examine the environmental damage that had been done at Mascot. 
Why has not this information emanated from the Minister for Civil Aviation? Why can he not make a statement on this matter and tell us why members from both sides of the Parliament are not given a chance to speak on this matter? Surely these are all valid reasons for moving the motion to suspend Standing Orders. It will allow this information to be put before us now. We could be given the history and the whole matter could be studied. We need to know whether this proposal has been planned, what planning has taken place. We need to know what the actual decision is going to be. It has been sort of waffled about so much that we do not know what the decision is going to be. Above all, we need to be concerned about the people who can be disadvantaged by building an airport on this site at Galston or on a number of other sites. I am the first to admit that it is not easy. In relation to the statement by the Minister, why cannot we raise what could properly be a solution to this whole problem, and that is-- 
MrREYNOLDS -Four years. You should have started 5 years before that. 
I am not allowed to answer disorderly interjections, but through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want to put this to the House: Who has considered going 50, 60, or 70 miles out and putting in a fast road transport link? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. The timeallotted for the debate also has expired. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I wish very briefly to support the remarks of and attitude adopted by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Whether it was the intention of those who moved the amendment or not - I express no opinion on that - I believe that if the amendment is carried it, in effect, will stifle any proper and effective investigation of this matter and put off the day when this House can make a decision on such a proper and effective investigation of this matter and put off the day when this House can make a decision on such a proper and effective investigation. Therefore, I support the attitude adopted by the honourable member for Wakefield. I will certainly be voting against this amendment on the ground that if it is carried it will put off a proper investigation and, in the words in which it is put forward, even prevent the teaching of sex education in schools because that phrase has been removed from the original motion. I would prefer - this is why I will vote this way-- 
Then why did the honourable gentleman omit it? Why did he, in his amendment, specifically take it out. Anyway, that is the way in which I see the matter. I am sure that at some stage in the next year or two, I do not know when, this House will decide to make an effective and real investigation of this matter. I prefer that no action of this kind, which would put off such a recommendation, should take place now. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be inserted  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's  amendment) be so inserted. 
I trespass upon the patience of the House for no more than two minutes. I listened with great interest to the speech made by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  this evening and there are some matters in that speech with which I agree. In particular I agree with what he had to say about the improper use of ministerial discretion in the mining code and the lack of provision for reports to the Parliament during the period of this legislation. But there was much in that speech with which I disagreed although I do not intend to go into that in any detail now. All I wish to make clear now is that inasmuch as the speech delivered by the honourable member for Farrer purported to be or may be taken to be a statement of what Liberal Party policy will be when we become the Government, I do not agree with it. I do not agree that it does propound future Liberal policy and I am not in any way to be considered as agreeing to or being bound by all the statements made in the speech. 
I do not want to make a personal explanation but since there has been some discussion which has been quite open to the House, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  might now be willing to give me leave to make a statement to clear it up. 
No, quite short. 
The facts are these: Not long ago the Australian Country Party as a whole and, as I understand it, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  were accused by a member of the Joint Committee on Prices in this House of leaking information to the Press. For my part, in conversation with the Leader of the Country Party I said that I was quite sure that that was not true. In any case it was an odd accusation to be made because on the Committee we had been told by a member of the Committee that he was discussing matters with the Prime Minister as they went through. 
There is no doubt that meat prices recently have risen considerably. There is also no doubt that they have risen from what was a very low base. 
There is no doubt that over the years the prices of meat have not increased more than have the prices of other commodities or average wages. It is surely the wish of this House that meat producers or any other producers should not by artificial means be reduced to a peasant class by making them produce and making them subsidise the rest of the community from that production. Those of us who signed the minority report urge the House to reject the majority report. We believe that the recommendations are a classic example of an attempt to attack the problem of prices from the wrong end and in a counter-productive way. In any case, the thinking behind the proposals would be wrong. When we are dealing with an industry which does not set its own prices but depends on supply and demand, which does not produce to a set price as factories do, which is subject to all the fluctuations of the market and which is subject to great variations in seasonal conditions and the hazards of drought and flood, that wrong thinking becomes a tragic approach. 
Furthermore, the action suggested will have no significant effect, in our view, in reducing the domestic price of beef. It will be harmful to all producers and particularly harmful to beef producers in the northern half of Australia. It will place in peril our future access to overseas markets which we had desperately needed and fought for in the past and which surely will need equally desperately in future. The major result of this approach is likely to be only the employment of large numbers of civil servants sitting in room after room busily collecting an immoral and sectional tax and other great numbers of civil servants in other rooms busily engaged in paying most but not all of it back, all at the cost of the revenue. Another significant result is likely to be a reduction of the incentive to producers to produce more beef of the kind that the Australian market needs and therefore to lead to lower production than at present. This in consequence will mean higher not lower prices for meat for the housewife. 
Let us examine the principal recommendation more closely. It is to impose an export tax of an unspecified size, but the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  says that it will have to be a very high export tax to have any effect at all. This unspecified export tax is to be placed on all exported beef and most but not all of it is to be paid back again. The recommendation is to collect the tax from exporters and to repay most of it not only to those exporters but also to those who do not export. In short, it will penalise the northern export meat producers, will damage northern development and will give a present to southern producers of prime beef for the Australian market. That is the intention but will it be carried out? After the tax is collected, to whom is it to be paid back? Is it to be paid to the man who owned the cattle at the time that they were sold to the butcher? If so, it will be paid to a dealer and not to a producer of prime beef. In 9 cases out of 10 it will be paid to a dealer. The beef may have changed hands two or three times before the sale for export. To whom is it to be paid back? Nobody has considered that and I do not believe that the intention would be carried out. 
The argument advanced by the Government for this convoluted approach, as I understand it, is this: If an export tax is imposed at such a level that the importing country cannot or will not pass it on to foreign consumers, the foreign demand for Australian beef will drop and therefore producers will sell more on the home market and less on the foreign market. Therefore there will be a drop in prices to Australian producers for the Australian market. That is the argument as I understand it. Of course, it is simplistic. I think the  Chairman  of the Committee used the word 'simple'. It was well chosen. It is a simplistic argument and at first glimpse it is slightly attractive in theory but it will not stand close examination. In the first place one cannot talk properly about taxing beef as though all beef were the same, because it is not. Nor can one talk properly about foreign countries importing beef as though all countries imported the same quality and amounts. They do not. Japan and Britain import prime beef. The United States of America imports mainly low quality beef for which there is no ready market in Australia. To ignore those differences is at the very start to cut the heart out of any possible argument that can be advanced to support the recommendations. 
The northern part of Australia - Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia - produce a quality of beef which is and always has been almost all exported. This year about 83 per cent of Queensland's beef production was exported as was S6.6 per cent of Western Australia's beef production and, I should think, almost all the Northern Territory's beef production. There is no major market for such beef in Australia. Similarly of the beef produced in the south a not insignificant quantity consists of cuts which do not sell readily on the Australian market. What would be the immediate effect of imposing a tax on this kind of beef? Firstly, the demand abroad would be such that importers could pass the tax on to the consumer, in which case the volume of meat exported would be the same and the return to all producers in this ideal situation would be increased by the proportion of the tax returned to them. That would mean that a producer could have sold at a price on the overseas market without that tax, if the people were prepared to pay it, but he would not be allowed to get the price at which he could have sold it because the tax would intervene and he would get only some of it back. But what is significant is that because there would be no effect on volume at all, as we are told that the demand is inelastic, that people will pay these prices, there would be no diversion and therefore there would be no effect whatever on the Australian market and no effect at all on prices. 
Alternatively, the importer would not be able to pass on the tax to the overseas consumers in which case the producer would find the volume of his exports reduced. He would have no alternative market because we are talking of meat for export. He would not be able to sell it on the Australian market. Therefore again there would be no effect whatever on the Australian market, no effect on prices to the Australian housewife. But there would be other effects. Future export markets would be jeopardised; we would damage our reputation as reliable suppliers. I repeat that we would have rooms and rooms full of civil servants all paid by the community busily collecting taxes and sitting around paying them back again, if they could ever think to whom they should be paid, but retaining an unspecified proportion for something that the meat industry has not requested - a promotion campaign. 
Have honourable members ever heard anything more ridiculous than saying: 'Not enough meat is produced, we can sell all the meat we have got and more, but let us take money from the producers for a sales promotion campaign'? There would also be no effect on the Australian market and not 1 lb of beef of this kind would be diverted to it. On the other hand, northern producers, northern development and future export markets all would have been damaged for nothing. In the south the same conditions would apply to other than the prime beef which is demanded on the Australian market. I accept that if overseas consumers would not pay the price plus tax required for the prime beef then the producers would be affected. 
Debate interrupted. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to 2. JJ P.m 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was discussing the report which the majority of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee oh Prices had signed regarding a proposal to place an export tax on all beef. I sought to point out the way in which particular sections of beef producers would be adversely affected, such as those in the north, the way in which bur markets would be damaged for the future, the administratively cumbersome procedure that would be followed, the impossibility of deciding to whom the tax that is collected should be paid and the almost inevitable result that there would be higher not lower prices because there would be lower production as a result of these proposals. I do not propose to traverse that ground again. 
Earlier I was speaking of the prime beef produced in the south. If overseas consumers would not pay the price plus tax for that beef then the producers of that beef would either have their returns lowered or they would have the volume of beef they were able to sell reduced, or both. The result of this might conceivably be that some of that beef would become diverted to the Australian market; but it might more likely be that producers would not divert their beef to the Australian market under those conditions but would keep beasts on the farm for a longer period, allowing them to put on more weight, thus not increasing the supply of meat to the Australian market at all. This is the time when that is most likely to happen because all meat producers are enjoying bounteous seasons. Therefore the meat producers can keep the beasts on their properties with no trouble at all or, if they believe this is the beginning of a process of harassing producers and making half-baked suggestions of this kind, that the whole industry is to be thrown into confusion, they can switch their production to oil seeds or to grain or other produce which is enjoying high prices at this moment. This is more likely to happen than if the small amount of beef required is diverted to the Australian market. 
As the Australian Meat Board and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics both acknowledged in the report that has been presented to us, the lessening of the incentives to produce, which is involved in this proposal, will lead to a drop in production and, as I say, therefore to higher not lower prices. We are told in the report that only 'a small quantity' of beef would need to be diverted on to the home market to have the desired effect. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  expressed the view that perhaps only 1 per cent of the beef exported would need to be diverted - a very small amount. The way to get the desired effect and having larger quantities of meat on the Australian home market is not to slam all producers, some more than others, and indulge in the Gilbertian antics of collecting taxes and paying some of them back. That is not the way to do it. The way to get the desired effect is to produce the small extra quantity required. The way to achieve this is to encourage additional production by various means, certainly not to discourage it by the method proposed and certainly not to throw the whole industry into a state of confusion and uncertainty as has been done at present. 
There has been some half-baked attempt to argue that by harassing beef producers in the way proposed they will in fact receive higher returns for what they sell. The argument supposes that overseas consumers will pay the present prices plus part or all of the tax. If overseas producers are prepared to pay those prices they will not pay them because the tax is put on; they will be paying them because those are the market prices. So, this proposal would have no effect at all. If markets abroad will pay the additional amount they would, as I say, be paying it now. The producers must lose. One cannot bring in a proposal to drop the price of beasts for export and on the home market and expect that there will be higher returns to the producer as a result. The Australian consumer, as I believe I have shown, will not gain. No amount of double talk will alter that. No amount of double talk will put into the minds of those who battle the elements on our farms year by year that they can be helped by having to fill in forms, by paying extra taxes and by having the return for their produce reduced. (Extension of time granted). 
If the Government wishes to provide a small additional quantity of meat to the Australian market let it look at ways of encouraging extra production, not of discouraging it. I believe that this proposal is worse than immoral; it is a blunder. It will attain the exact opposite of what it seeks. I appeal to the Government to announce rapidly that it will not accept the report put forward by the majority of members of this Committee. I know that both the Liberal Party and the Country Party in this Mouse and in any other House will do all they possibly can to prevent the Government implementing the recommendations, if the Government does accept them and if it is ill advised enough to do so. I hope, for the sake of avoiding confusion and uncertainty that a rapid decision will be made by the Government on this matter. I announced what our approach to it will be. If we cannot save the Government from itself at least we can save the producers from the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Did the Minister state that the election promise of the Prime Minister, to introduce the 35-hour week for the Commonwealth Public Service in the life of this Parliament, could not be carried out with any economic responsibility? Does he still adhere to that view or does he support the carrying out of the promise made by the Prime Minister at the election and by implication endorsed again just a few minutes ago? 
I doubt whether this House has ever heard a more brutal rejection of the rights not just of members of the Liberal Party of Australia and members of the Australian Country Part but the rights of all members than the one we have just heard from the leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who has not only rejected our rights but has announced that he will later on move to use his numbers to prevent the exercise of all our rights in the future. All we are asking by this motion is for the right of this Parliament to be told of decisions before the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announces them to the Press. It is known that he holds his Press conferences on Tuesday afternoons. We want to give him an opportunity now, which is not otherwise available, to tell us first. 
We are told by the Leader of the House that this motion to suspend Standing Orders is a shocking thing, a ridiculous thing and a waste of time. This is just another example of the great splits which are appearing. We had an example of this during question time. The Leader of the House has said that this motion is ridiculous yet the Prime Minister got up and said that he would be glad to make a statement in the House if he had a little more time. How do we gel the 2 things together? Surely it is right for us to offer an opportunity to the Prime Minister to enable him to do what he has said he would be glad to do if he had more time. Surely it is wrong for this motion to be rejected. I would have hoped that not just members of the Liberal Party and members of the Country Party would have been united on this matter but that all members would have been united on it. Surely members on the other side of the House have sufficient regard for their standing to believe that they ought to be told of decisions before the Press are told. 
I know that the Government and the Prime Minister in particular work under a great disadvantage in regard to this matter. He has a difficulty which I can express in the form of an old riddle about when is a door not a door. The riddle is: When is a decision not a decision? The answer is, after it has been announced publicly by the Prime Minister but before it has gone to Caucus. That is the disadvantage as I see it. But if the Prime Minister is going to announce something publicly this is the place in which statements ought to be made. This is the place in which he said he would be glad to announce them. Why does the Leader of the House prevent us from hearing what we want to hear and the Prime Minister from saying what he has said he would be glad to say? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I intervene very briefly in this debate because I wish to take the opportunity to express appreciation for the effort which the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  put into his work while he held that portfolio. There can be no doubt that he put his heart and soul into improving the conditions and the opportunities afforded to Aborigines. He did not approach the debatable question of assimilation versus integration, for example, on the basis that he knew what was best and he would impose his view. Rather he approached it on the basis of seeking to find out what the people concerned wanted. If he believed that it was possible he sought to do that which was wanted by those people. I am bound to say that he adopted a number of attitudes and a number of approaches with which I personally disagreed and with which I would continue to disagree. I do not propose to go into them now but I do think that everybody in this House would know that in adopting those approaches he was doing what he thought was right and that is something which must stand to his credit. 
There is only one other thing that I wish to say: If there is to be a situation in which a Minister is appointed to this very difficult portfolio, whoever that Minister may be or may have been - and I go back beyond the honourable member for Wills - and a non-elected person who disagrees with the decisions of the responsible Minister takes the opportunity to bypass him and, without that Minister's knowledge, even goes to a Prime Minister and has overthrown the decisions of the Minister responsible, then so long as that situation continues the parliamentary approach will be derogated. The Minister in charge of the portfolio through no fault of his own will not be responsible, as he should be, to the Parliament. If that situation continues the idea of elected persons making decisions and Ministers speaking on behalf of a government will be denigrated. I can only hope that this situation will not continue now that there is a successor to the Minister who has just handed in his portfolio covering Aboriginal affairs. Those are the 2 matters which I wanted to raise and that is all I want to say. Firstly, I wanted to pay a tribute to the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, though I disagree with a great deal of what he wants to do. Secondly, I wanted to say that whoever is in his position must not be in a position where somebody outside can overrule him or have him overruled, particularly without his consent. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Before the House is a matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, and the matter of public importance is the apparent undermining by the Council for Aboriginal Affairs of the principle of ministerial responsibility to the Parliament and the Government's administration of Aboriginal advancement. I would like to say, at the beginning that as far as I am concerned I have, in regarding this as a matter of public importance, no thought of regarding one side of the House as taking one position and another side as taking another position. I believe that it is a matter of public importance to all members if the allegations which have been made are correct. To emphasise that, may I say this: If there is a wrong administrative set-up, as there appears to be, then it is not the fault of the Government that there is a wrong administrative set-up, though it will be the fault of the Government if it is continued because, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out before the sitting was suspended, there was a Council for Aboriginal Affairs at the time when  Mr Holt  was Prime Minister, although there was no Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and the head of the Council reported directly to  Mr Holt.  Subsequently, in my time as Prime Minister, there was a Council for Aboriginal Affairs and a  chairman  of that Council, but then there was a Minister placed with responsibility, and that Minister was the only person who reported to me because he bore the responsibility for what the Council did or recommended. Under the regime of the next Prime Minister the present Department of Aboriginal Affairs was set up and the present arrangements were made, and they are now being continued. So I am not casting aspersions at anybody or any government or any House when I say that this is a matter of such public importance that it ought to be investigated by this Parliament. 
The genesis of this approach was a speech made in another place by a senator. It was not a wild speech. It was not made by somebody who had heard at third hand some things which he thought were wrong. It was a carefully documented speech made by a man who was in a position to have first hand knowledge of what was happening in some aspects of the administration of this Department. If there is any truth whatever in the statements made by that senator, then it should attract the attention of this House to see whether we can improve matters for the sake of the public, for the sake of the public purse and for the sake of the Aborigines who may not be benefiting as much from expenditure from the public purse as they would be if we had a Minister whom we could hold fully responsible for everything that was done. 
We were informed - it may or may not be true, but the information seemed to be well documented - that a great amount of money has been wasted over the terms of office of more than one government on one particular project for farming turtles in the Torres Strait. We were told also that that project was to continue even though the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  was unhappy with what was being done, even though he doubted the efficacy and the propriety of the way in which the money was being spent. Therefore, having these doubts, the former Minister called in  Senator Georges  to be  chairman  of various companies involved in the project. But, even in spite of that, apparently public money was to continue to be spent on this over the objections or the doubts of the former Minister - he can correct me if I am wrong - because there was an outside council to which the head of his Department could go for advice, and if that advice conflicted with what the Minister felt should happen, after he had spoken to his departmental head, that outside man could go directly to the Prime Minister without the Minister even knowing, let alone being there, and give different, advice from that which the Minister would have given. 
In these circumstances can anybody think that this Parliament can properly hold the Minister responsible should it turn out that the money being spent on this project was wasted and that money being put into other projects was wasted? I do not think so. Surely any proper administrative arrangement under our system must be that a departmental head gives his advice to one person and one person only, and that is the ministerial head, and the ministerial head makes the decision yea or nay and then stands up an can be blamed for any wrong decision or praised for any right decision, but held responsible. If it is true that this is happening and if we are to continue with a system whereby a head of a department - the Department of Aboriginal Affaire - is responsible apparently not only to the Minister but also to the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, and if the Minister can be by-passed and the  Chairman  can have direct access to the Prime Minister, which the Minister himself cannot get, then we are flouting completely the concept of parliamentary responsibility and ministerial responsibility. We are asking for further mistakes to be made, and it will be the fault of each single one of us if we allow this to continue in this way. 
I am sure that no one can say that that is not a matter of public importance. If the situation is as it was stated, then it ought to be changed. Let me not hear anyone say: 'But your side brought it in in the first place*. Let us accept that. It still ought to be changed. It is not within the capacity of the Opposition to change it; it is within the capacity of the Government to change it. How would we be if, say, in education there was a body to which the head of the Department of Education was responsible and the  chairman  of that body could by-pass the Minister and go direct to the Prime Minister and say: 'I do not agree with what the Minister is doing. This is what I think should happen in education'? How long would it be before the whole Government became a complete and utter shambles? 
Not long. How unfair it would be to each individual who happened to occupy the post of Minister in that sort of situation. This is the main reason why I believe that this is a matter of public importance, not a matter of political conflict. This is a matter of public importance to which each individual in this House should give his attention, particularly those individuals who can influence it more than we of the Opposition can. Let us be told at least that there has been a reorganisation and that in future the  chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs will follow strict instructions that he will speak on official matters only to his Minister, that when his Minister disagrees with him he will not have an opportunity to go elsewhere. 
I had some experience in these matters when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was appointed as MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs. I very quickly made it clear that I would speak only to the Minister and that if advice came from the Council for Aboriginal Affairs it had to come through the Minister. That practice should be followed again. We are not talking about peanuts in the way of expenditure. This year $180m is to be spent on Aborigines, not all of it for projects of the type to which I have been referring, but a great proportion of it. I have hoped that in time a growing proportion of the expenditure will go to such projects. Undoubtedly some of them will fail but they have a much greater chance of failing if the Department thinks that it does not have to do what the Minister wants it to do. There will be a much greater chance of their failing when the expenditure on Aboriginal affairs appears as a one-line entry in the Estimates without any indication of the projects on which the money is to be spent. That it was a one-line entry when we were in office has nothing to do with whether it should continue in that way. Should the expenditure of that money not be subject to audit by the Auditor-General? 
I did not think it was. I would be astonished if the sum of $155,000 spent on offices to run the turtle project got past the Auditor-General without some comment which this House could have noted. If it did, I doubt that the Auditor-General is doing his work properly, but I do not believe that those sums are subject to audit. They ought to be spelt out. Any one of us could have looked at the Estimates and could have seen that $155,000 was to be spent on rent. I suppose it would be listed as rent. (Extension off time granted) I thank the House. I will not take more than another two or three minutes. I have raised the points that I believe should be raised here, the first of which is that a Minister must be responsible, without anybody being able to go behind his back and give advice different from that which he would accept. That is essential in any department. 
That is so. Secondly, when funds are provided for specific projects there ought to be an auditing of those projects and a report to the Parliament on their progress year by year so that we can discuss them. That is so not only for the sake of the public purse but also for the sake of the people who benefit from the expenditure. We are spending $1,000 for every man, woman and child in the Aboriginal population. For their sake we need to see that full benefit, or at least as full a benefit as human fallibility can give, is available for the expenditure. There will be no cavilling from me or, I believe, from anyone on this side of the chamber if this matter is put straight in the way it ought to be. Rather will there be praise, because it is not the fault of the Government that the present situation obtains, but it will be the fault of the Government if it is allowed to continue. I did have much more to say but because of the pressure of time I will conclude. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of this House homosexual acts between consenting adults in private should not be subject to the criminal law. 
This is one of those rare occasions - those all too rare occasions - when the Parliament can act as it was originally theoretically intended to act; that is, to act as a collection of men, representing sections of the community, able to listen to a case and to make up their minds as to what is right without the constraints of party or of faction. The proposition which is before you,  Mr Speaker,  is that we should say that homosexual acts between consenting adults in private should not be punishable by the criminal law. The operative words which we all should have clearly in mind are 'consenting', 'adults' and 'in private'. 
The motion says nothing about homosexual acts committed with minors. It says nothing about homosexual acts which are the result of constraint. It says nothing about public soliciting in the streets or creating a public nuisance. It having said nothing about that, those acts which are offences will, if this motion is carried, not be affected; they will continue to be offences. Therefore, agreement with the motion leaves the offences as they are. We are concerned with one question and one question only. That question is, I repeat: Should homosexual individuals who are adults, who both wish a homosexual relationship with each other, who do not flaunt it but who act in private, withdrawn from the public gaze, be dubbed criminals and be subject to punishment by the criminal law? I suggest to the House that they should not be treated in that way. 
If the House agrees with such a suggestion, it is in no way approving homosexual acts; it is in now way condoning homosexual acts. It is merely asserting that such acts under such conditions ought not to be subject to prosecution and long terms of imprisonment. I have noted a number of arguments which have been advanced against the proposition which I have put before the House. I think the House should have these propositions against my ideas put before it and should judge those propositions and the answers which I suggest can properly be made to them. In the first place I have been informed that in moving such a motion or in suggesting such a course of action I am acting contrary to God's law. I do not know that I am qualified to interpret God's law. I have no hot line to the Almighty but I do know what those who are spokesmen for the relevant churches and the major churches in England and Australia - who presumably are interpreters of God's law - have to say on this matter. The original Wolfenden Committee in the United Kingdom - the United Kingdom Parliament passed a resolution such as I want this House to pass - was advised from the Roman Catholic Church, by a body set up under Cardinal Griffin, in full agreement with the Wolfenden Committee's report, that what I suggest this House should do should be done. 
At the moment I am dealing with whether it is against God's law, not against your ideas. The point I make is that Cardinal Griffin did set up this committee. I do not know the situation in Australia. I do not believe that the Roman Catholic Church has take a position on it. I think it is neutral. However I do know that in the 'Catholic Weekly' of 4 October this year there is a strong and compelling argument printed as to why what I am suggesting to the House should be done should be done. I do not wish to suggest to the House that that is the opinion of the 'Catholic Weekly' but I suggest that if the 'Catholic Weekly' puts such a case prominently in its paper it is clear that the church is not opposed to it. The Presbyterian Church has considered this matter and I should like to quote what Douglas Cole, the Convener, had to say about that debate. He said: 
The Assembly declared- 
That is, the Presbyterian Assembly- that, while it believes that homosexuality is contrary to man's ethical development, that homosexuality is productive of personal moral disintegration rather than any true personal wellbeing and happiness, it nonetheless supports the Wolfenden report that homosexual behaviour between 2 consenting adults in private should no longer be a criminal offence and that the appropriate authorities should be advised accordingly. 
In commenting on this the following relevant words were used: 
Many would agree with one of the central contentions of the Wolfenden report, viz., that it is not the function of the law to intervene in the private morality of citizens. Nor is it the duty of the Church to try to impose Christian standards, or any other religious standards upon people by means of law. . . . The present law encourages blackmail, and may also encourage the seduction of children by those who would otherwise prefer adult contacts, but who imagine that child seduction is less risky. 
Lord Jowitt testified that during the time that he was British Attorney-General, 95 per cent of all blackmail cases had a homosexual origin. 
In conclusion, the spokesman for this Church quoted the words of W. D. G. Cole. He asked: 
Is the Church a fellowship of reconciliation, of love and accepting forgiveness, or is it made up of self-righteous Pharisees, gossiping and judging and rejecting? Does it surround the sinner with hostility and threaten him with harm; or does it welcome him into the community of those who know themselves to stand in need of forgiveness, who cannot cast the first stone because they, too, fall short of the demands of a righteous God? 
This aspect has been put succinctly in the old jingle that some members of this House may have heard about people who compound the sins they are inclined to, by damning those they have no minds to. The Church of England in its report on homosexuality in 1971 reached the same conclusion. It said: 
We recommend that the special offences, sodomy and attempts to commit sodomy, which presently carry higher penalties, be repealed and that the present provisions of the Victorian Crimes Act which renders criminal those homosexual acts committed in private between consulting males of 18 years or over should be repealed, 
I suggest to the House that if the argument is advanced that considering this matter is against God's law, those speaking for the major churches in Australia do not agree with that contention but rather, I would think, agree with me. I cannot imagine it to have been a function of God's law to commit people who are built differently in some way from ourselves to live a twilight life of guilt and fear. 
I have heard it advanced as a suggestion why this should not be done that there will be an upsurge in homosexual activity if this resolution is accepted and translated into law. Country after country in Europe - country after country throughout the world - has changed its laws from those which used to apply 600 years ago, as these laws used to, and there is no evidence from any one of those countries that there was any upsurge in homosexual activity as a result. There being people who are strongly opposed to this suggestion, that evidence would have been forthcoming if that evidence had been in existence. We have been told that this has been a law for 600 years, and indeed it has. It used .to be subject to death in early Britain As late as 1861 in Britain the law made it not only a punishable offence - a gaolable offence - but laid down that the minimum term of imprisonment for it must be 10 years. 
Because a law has been in existence 300, 400 or SOO years, is anybody to argue that therefore that is necessarily a good law? If it was we would still be hanging people for sheep stealing or transporting them for stealing a silk handkerchief. 
The question is posed: What will happen in the armed Services if this is done. Will discipline not be completely destroyed? There are 2 answers to that. One is that the Services are able, and always have been able, to write their own laws and denote their own offences. If in fact this were to be found in the Services to be destructive of discipline the Services can themselves, even if we pass this resolution, take the action necessary to overcome that. There is perhaps another answer which in the House of Lords debate was advanced, and that is that homosexuality between females is not an offence now. Does anybody suggest, therefore, that the women's Services have no discipline and are completely destroyed because they are not subject to this law. It has been suggested that personal abhorrence can persuade many people to object to passing such a resolution - that because a person himself shrinks almost in horror from the concept of a homosexual relationship applying to himself; that because he finds it disgusting, therefore it is reasonable to punish it by civil law. I call to my assistance on this argument words which were used in the House of Lords debate and which are much better and much more cogent than words I could use myself. The words are these: 
The third point to which I would draw Your Lordship's notice - and it is an argument which seems to me to be quite irrational - is that based on the revulsion which people feel at the behaviour of the homosexual. Many, who want the law changed share this revulsion. 
But surely no one sincerely believes that everything which he personally feels to be unpleasant or disgusting should for that reason be a crime. The fundamental point at issue here ls not whether we can or cannot stomach the thought of this or that type of sexual behaviour; it is whether or not we believe that true morality and the best way of culivating personal responsibility is to be found through freedom  ot  through compulsion, and whether or not we believe that the present law on this subject does more harm than good. 
According to those who have carefully gone into this matter, including representatives of the churches, it does do more harm than good. We have always been careful over the years to get rid of the confusion between the ecclesiastical idea of what is sin and the 
State's idea of what is a crime. Lord Goddard said: 
We must draw distinction between conduct which may be held by some to be sinful and conduct which ought to be held by the State to be criminal. 
That is the distinction which I seek to draw now. There is one other argument that has been advanced and that is: Why change the law? It is not usually applied. It is only infrequently applied. Therefore, leave lt as it ls, I would regard that argument as unmoral and indeed as a completely wrong argument from the point of view of any member of Parliament. It is immoral because it -seeks to shelve the question and to say: A man is subject to this sort of threat but the threat is rarely carried out so I can salve my conscience by just letting it go because rarely  is  the threat carried out. But it is wrong from the point of view of a Parliament or anybody with a vestige of interest in the legal position because it is clear that a bad law is a law which is not applied, which has fallen into desuetude. A bad law is a law which is not applied. It must be bad, and a law which is applied in a discriminatory way - sometimes applied and sometimes not - must be a worse law. A law which is sometimes applied and sometimes not and which gives an opportunity for blackmail must be the worst law of the lot. Yet this is precisely the law as it stands at present. It is occasionally applied, not often. It gives great opportunity for blackmail and it gives an opportunity for some bashing because quite often the victim who is bashed knows that complaint might lead to a charge against him under the law as it exists. All this in my view must completely counter the suggestion that the law should be left as it is because it is rarely applied. 
Having dealt with the reasons that have been advanced against this proposition I now want to deal with the reasons for ft. First, I believe that it is unjust and wrong to dub as criminals people who in some way are built differently from ourselves, who may not be able to help themselves, who in many cases I believe live lives of desperation and pain because of the way in which they were constructed. 
And sometimes committing suicide because of it. .It is wrong and unjust in my opinion to impose on top of that the threat of gaol, the .threat of being dubbed a criminal. Do not forget that every person sitting in this House is not just going to cross the floor or sit in his seat and that will be the end of the matter. What happens here will affect not thousands or tens of thousands but quite possibly hundreds of thousands of individuals. It will leave them, of course, with the social condemnation which this country has for them. It will leave them with that desperation of which I spoke and on which the honourable member for Hunter agreed with me. 
Good. It will remove from them one overriding fear of state laws applied against them. That fear should not be allowed to remain. 
I do not know that there is much more for me to say. on the matter. I have sought to indicate to this House the arguments which can be advanced against those who say that this is wrong. Everyone sitting here ought to consider himself at this moment as a judge. He ought to say to himself: 'If I were sitting in a seat and before me was brought a man who has been convicted of, in private, committing homosexual acts with some other adult who wanted him to, would I, if I bad to make the law, send that man to gaol? Would I happily do that? If honourable members would not do that, it is equally wrong to vote that the law should continue as it is because they are then acting as judges, to say that this man can be sent to gaol. 
Basically, this is a matter for each individual. It is not a matter to be decided on emotion; it is a matter to be decided on justice. It is a matter which, in the ultimate, is what this Parliament is all about because every action we take, however important in the national field, has one ultimate justification - the welfare of the individual citizen of Australia. That is what we all want and this is an occasion on which we can make up our minds and cast our judgments as to whether, because something has continued for a long time, it should continue still; as to whether unfortunate people should have their lot made yet more unfortunate;, as to who would be hurt or harmed by private actions. Let us put out of our minds what sometimes is' in mine - the thought of people walking hand in hand down the street or with their arms around each other or in other ways acting in ways which we find objectionable. Let us think instead of the thousands of men who are not like that, who could not be discovered in an ordinary glance at the population, who hurt no one, harm no one and yet have this hanging over them. 
We are engaged at the moment in watching a most tragic occurrence, the conflict in the Middle East. In the course of that conflict, there has been considerable pressure brought on to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  and on to the Government to condemn the Arab nations as aggressors in this latest instalment of fighting. The Prime Minister has refused to do this, wishing to say nothing which might diminish any influence Australia has or which might militate against our desire to help bring the conflict to an end. In this attitude, he has been completely supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden). 
No one can deny, I think, that it is in our interests and in the world's interests to end this fighting now and to see that it does not spread into a world conflagration as there is always a possibility that it might. Now it seems that actual fighting might cease, not because of the United Nations but because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America both want it to cease. Therefore, it is surely time for us as a Parliament to say what we as a nation, or as a Parliament, would like to see happen after the ceasefire; what our diplomatic representatives should work for now and in the future. 
It is clear that this latest fighting is not an isolated affair. It is a symptom of an endemic danger to whch my friend, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  has referred. It is an endemic danger which is continuing and which has periodically in the past erupted into war and which, whatever happens now in the way of a ceasefire, will undoubtedly erupt in war again in the future unless the underlying causes are removed or the Soviet and the United States act in concert to prevent any future aggression and to maintain peace. 
I would like to see the Parliament and the nation adopt as goals the achievement of justice and of continuing peace in this area, not only to avoid the bestiality of limited and endemic war but also to avoid the danger which such war poses to the world and, therefore, to Australia. In the first place, I believe that we ought to support the concept that Israel has the right to exist, that it must not be exterminated and that it has the right to so exist with security and with a guarantee of peace. She should not be subjected to constant and publicly expressed threats of destruction. I believe that we should support the concept that she should retain borders which are defensible and should have secure access to the Gulf of Aqaba. 
I believe that there should be real and credible guarantees to all countries in the area against attack from any country in the area, including Israel. I believe that there should be a world effort to settle the Palestinian refugees and to see that they have a chance of a life better than that which they now have. I believe too that the only way in which these goals can be achieved in the short and middle term is for the United States and the Soviet Union to give such guarantees and to mean them; to refuse to arm and to train countries in the area to the extent that they could be posed as a threat to any other country, and to make it so clear that they are believed that if any future aggression does take place from any direction, they will act in concert to defeat it at once. If this could be done, in the longer term the growth of tolerance in the absence of war, the growth of relations of various kinds between the countries and the growth of understanding would be possible. Those things might develop. If they did, it would be the ultimate and real guarantee of a continuing peace after that time. 
It may be that the approach that I suggest will be dubbed naive or idealistic. I hope it will not be dubbed divisive. It is not meant to be and I do not think it is. But if it is naive and idealistic it is at least an approach. What other possibilities are there, given the history and the existing situation and looking into the future, of preventing an outbreak of war in this area again? Three million Israelis will not allow themselves to be exterminated; nor should they. There is still, and will be for some time, an understandable feeling on the part of the Arab nations. If this is so, is there anybody here who believes that the United Nations itself - just the United Nations - could prevent an outbreak or stop an outbreak of war? Is there anybody who does not believe that the United States and the Soviet Union, acting in concert, could do that? 
If it is idealistic, it is idealistic. But this nation should be prepared to try to reach an idealistic goal if that is the only goal which seems to offer a solution to a problem of such magnitude. And, who knows? Other problems which have seemed insoluble, other approaches which have seemed at first to be idealistic, have ultimately succeeded. Unless some other better approach can be suggested I would like to see Australia, through its Government, adopt the attitude and instruct its diplomatic representatives to try to bring about the goals which I have suggested; not from any partisan spirit but from a real belief that this is at the heart of a continuing peace in the Middle East and, therefore, in the world. 
I propose merely to put to the House some findings of members of the Committee who are not members of the Government Party. These findings vary in some degree from the findings in the report itself. The report was adopted unanimously by those who were present at the meeting at which it was brought forward, but that was only because no Opposition members were present at that meeting. 
That is all right. The honourable member may say that those members should have been present if he likes. I am merely explaining to the House why these findings are not embodied in the report but are being read separately. The findings of Opposition members of the Committee are as follows: 
There is no evidence to show that revaluation has, except in unusual and isolated cases, reduced prices of imported goods. In the overwhelming majority of cases revaluation of the Australian currency was followed by increases in the prices previously charged by exporters supplying Australia. In most cases this increase in prices was sufficiently large to offset any benefit that might have been expected from revaluation. On the other hand revaluation of the Australian currency may have prevented the prices of imports rising to the extent that they otherwise would have risen. 
A judgment on this question depends on a judgment as to whether prices charged by overseas suppliers would or would not have risen regardless of our revaluation. If such prices would have risen regardless of our revaluation then that revaluation has resulted not in lower prices but in prices lower than they would otherwise have been. If such prices would not have risen unless we had revalued then our revaluation has had no effect on internal prices but has merely been of benefit to overseas sellers. It is hard to see how a factual finding can be made on this. It must remain a matter of judgment. 
The second finding is that evidence was presented by some witnesses that general freight increases and the application of a currency adjustment factor by overseas shipping lines are reducing the benefits of the revaluation of the Australian dollar. We are not prepared to state as a fact that this allegation is true but we have no objection to further deans being sought on the operation of the currency adjustment factor. 
Indeed, the report itself suggests that further details should be sought. This makes it difficult to see how there can be a firm finding that it is already operating in the way the report says it is operating. We do not agree that the practice of trade associations suggesting profit margins and prices need reduce any possible advantage arising from revaluation, provided the associations make suggestions only and do not attempt in any way to enforce them.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want these findings put on record so that they can be considered in conjunction with the report when the time comes. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide) - I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
The report presented by the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, and the statement on it made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  are clearly most important statements for the future of Australia. They are fundamental in their approach. They are very detailed. They cover a great variety of matters. The Minister has stated that the Government has not yet had time to consider or agree to the report. Quite clearly, since the report came into my hands this morning, I have not had time to consider it either. 
Yes. One must say at once that the objectives set out by the Else-Mitchell Commission are objectives which we would all seek to achieve. We are all on the side of good and we are all against bad. We all want to see that sufficient land is provided to meet the requirements of the community. We all want to see that land is kept to the lowest possible price. We want to see implemented the other matters that are included in the report, which I do not think that the Minister mentioned. I refer, for example to the requirement that industrial leases should be given only subject to conditions that anti-pollution devices were installed and the community was in that way protected. The report covers the manner of the lease of tenure of land. It makes strong recommendations on the tenure of land and discusses whether it should be in fee simple, freehold, perpetual leasehold, limited leasehold and matters of that kind. Without seeking to make a final pronouncement on that section of the report, I would merely express a personal opinion that so far as the recommendations concerning tenure in the Australian Capital Territory are concerned I agree completely with the Commission's proposition - and the reasoning for it - that land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory should be perpetual leasehold. That part of the report needs more study, of course, but it is of great significance. lt is not clear at this stage whether the objectives set out will in fact be achieved by what is recommended to take place in this report. The first point I make is that the objectives will not be achieved unless the State governments achieve them. Through no fault of the Government, the Minister, or this Parliament the recommendations which are made as to the acquisition of land can be carried out other than in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory only by the various State governments concerned. I would like to point out that the Minister took the Opposition to task a little in his statement by saying that we had permitted this situation which prevails at the moment to continue for too long. In fact, if the action to be taken can be taken only by State governments I think those strictures might be directed to State governments, and to State governments of all calibres, not of just one political complexion. 
Yes, I am not objecting to that. Those poroposals are not contained in the Minister's statement. Does he want to have a debate on something else? 
The recommendation of most significance is that for the future what are called land development rights should not rest as they have done in the past, as it were, in the possession of the owner of the land but should be regarded as property of the community. Therefore, if the Minister makes a recommendation he thinks he will make; if the Cabinet .accepts that recommendation; if the Caucus accepts the Cabinet recommendation; if all these things happen as from this date- 
All right. If the Minister, having had time to read the report, makes a recommendation and so on the proposition will be that from that time on, as from today, all land development rights will be the property of the community. The community will somehow or other be paid for it. I have not had time to read the report. Perhaps the Minister has had more time. I am not clear on how the payment will be made or to whom it will be made. Whether it will be made to a local government body, a regional government organisation or a State government, I do not know. At least it will be paid in some form or another to the community. I am also not clear on how the value of land development rights is to be determined. There may be a dispute about how valuable land development rights are in a particular area. At a cursory look through this report I do not see any suggestion as to how such a dispute might be resolved. It may be in the report. If it is not it will be a subject which will need to be discovered and set forth quite clearly so that everybody knows where he stands. 
If this takes place and a cash payment is made to somebody on behalf of these land development rights, who is to make that cash payment? Will it be a development corporation that is set up, as is suggested in the report, using public funds, paying it to some other public body? Or will it, as it seems to be envisaged in the report, be a cash payment made by a private developer who, acquiring the land, as he does, somehow or other arrives at a decision as to what the land development rights are worth and makes that payment to the public body concerned. If that happens, and it appears that it would, it will require much more detailed examination than we can give it at the moment to see how this will help very much the ultimate consumer of the block of land in that development and the house that is built upon it, because if the full value of land development rights is paid by the developer clearly he will get back that full value when he sells the blocks of land and subdivides them. 
There appears to me to be a question that needs to be answered. I do not say that there is not an answer to it. I just say that 1 cannot see it at this time. We really need to examine the matter. Let us assume that a private land developer under this proposition buys land at what we are told he should buy it at. I presume this applies to a private developer, nol just to a government. Let us assume that he buys the land at its existing use value at the time of acquisition. It is not clear whether a private developer is, by virtue of government strength, allowed to acquire that land or whether this only applies to a government itself. But if it does apply to that private developer he pays either the existing use value at the date of the acquisition or the market value as of today. He may not acquire it for sometimes years to come, or a government may acquire it and keep it for some years before it is developed. If he is to acquire it at the market value as of today and inflation is to continue to run in the way in which this Government is allowing it to run' at the moment, then in a period of years- 
I am asked whether I am going to vote 'Yes' on Saturday. This referendum has nothing whatever to do with preventing the rate of inflation which this Government has allowed to take place and will continue to ensure takes place no 'matter how people vote next Saturday. But that is a digression. We can take it for granted that there will be continuing inflation because of mismanagement, and if that is so is it fair to pay a man market value as of today, in say, 8 years time? These are things that may be answered, but they are not at all clear at the moment. It is essential when we reach any decision on this not only that we see that the community is not held to ransom, because I agree that the community should not be held to ransom- 
In some cases I think it has been, and I am agreeing that it is a bad thing for it to be held to ransom; but I also say that just as the community has rights and a right not to be held to ransom so the individual has rights. He has just rights and proper rights which should not be overridden by making him by force subsidise the community. Both these rights need to be protected as is clearly noted in the English legislation and in the English approach, as the Minister will agree. They both need to be protected. I am not sure, on the first examination of this report, that this individual right is taken care of. 
Nowhere in the report is there - I hope that when any recommendations are made to State governments there will be - any suggestion that I can find as to how these values are to be arrived at in the event of disputation. It is all right to talk about the existing use value at a date of acquisition, but that is obviously quite likely to be the subject of different opinions. Who is going to reconcile them? Is the individual to get the protection of a court? Is the Commonwealth to be bound by the requirement to pay just terms? There needs to be some protection for both the individual and the community. The market value again requires it. The assessment of the value of the development right and all other matters I have mentioned are matters in relation to which we have to take great care to protect the community and the individual - not just protect one and leave the other. We also need to be sure - so far it has not been explained - about how, if the full value is paid for the land by a developer, including land development value, the ultimate consumer will get a block of land and a house at a lower price than he is at present paying. Wc come down eventually to this - and this is recommended in the report and I agree with it completely: What is basically needed is to ensure that sufficient land is released to meet the demand and, if necessary, a little bit more than the demand, and that that land is released without monopolistic practices being able to inflate prices far above what they should be. We need to ensure that when that land is released it is quickly serviced, quickly passed through the local government planning bodies, and quickly passed through the State titles offices so that it does not lie around for a long time while the various bureaucratic processes are gone through and the cost of holding that land is ultimately added to the price the final consumer has to pay. These are things we need to go into. They may stem from a debate on the report. They are not clearly in it at the moment insofar as I have been able to read it. 
Having made those preliminary comments on a very complex matter, what I would hope would be that we will have a full opportunity for a long-ranging debate on this matter, important as it is, detailed as it is, in relation to which there may in some cases be disagreement and will undoubtedly in other cases be agreement. 
 I beg your pardon. 
 The interjection, which was most disorderly, was to the effect that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  was slipping. I can only express the hope that he does not slip sufficiently to deny this House a full opportunity to debate a matter of such great importance. I am encouraged in my hope that he will not do that by the encouraging nod being given to me by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, agreeing with me that he hopes the Leader of the House will not slip in that way. It is significant; it is important. It is not clear. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Motion (by  Mr Bryant)  proposed: 
That the debate be adjourned. 
To me, the importance of the reports that have been tabled and the matter that we are now discussing is not directly whether this particular project has or has not worked correctly or whether it has turned out to be economically viable; rather, the importance is that it highlights something which I think should not be allowed to continue. That is the process whereby the Parliament grants to the Minister and his Department an in globo sum of money which as time goes by he can spend as he wishes on such experimental projects. 
I can understand a department or a government wishing to ensure that the Treasury, for example, does not have complete control over money to be used experimentally to set up viable Aboriginal enterprises. I can understand also that a sum of money may be set aside by the Parliament for this general purpose, and I do not object to that. However, I believe that before money is taken from that general grant and applied to a particular project, the project should be presented to Parliament. Whether it is proposed to enter into a crocodile, turtle or cattle farm, or whatever the project may be, the department and the Minister responsible should come to the Parliament and obtain from the general funds being provided money to embark on the project. If we intend to embark on a project, it will require a certain sum of money to be set up, and each year an audited account of what has been spent and a report in the progress of the project should be presented to Parliament. It may be said that this was not done by the then Government, and it should have been done. I do not object to that. However, I think it has been shown that there is a danger in the way it is being operated at present. Time has shown that that danger should be overcome in future by ensuring that sums of money provided for general purposes are spent only on particular purposes after Parliament has debated the matter and expressed an opinion on those purposes. 
I propose to speak only for a few minutes before asking leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. There are 2 or 3 comments which I would like to make on the Bill which has been presented to the House. The first is that we have no objection at all to the purposes of this Bill. Indeed I congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  on bringing this Bill forward. But I do have some comments to make on the method by which the money is to be made available. In the first place, I do not see why the Government is continuing to insist on charging interest on money provided for the purposes set out in this legislation. If the money is originally borrowed then I can understand the necessity for a government to charge interest in order that it can repay the interest to the people from whom it had originally borrowed the money. 
I believe that it would be borne out by examination that a great deal of the money that is being provided under this Bill is in fact not money which has been borrowed at all but is revenue money which has been raised by the Commonwealth Government. It is to be given to these authorities under the guise of loan funds. But they are not loan funds because there is no interest to be paid by the Commonwealth Government. This is not something new. I am not attacking the Government for doing something that is new. This practice has been continuing for a long time. 
I do not interject when the honourable member is making a statement so he should not interject when I am making a statement. The excuse which the Minister seeks to make for the necessity to charge interest on money which has not been borrowed and on which the Commonwealth does not have to pay interest is that the Commonwealth has a deficit Budget. I cannot see that that has any bearing on this because the Commonwealth does not have to pay interest on the money which it is providing for the purposes set out in the Bill. Therefore there is no reason why the Commonwealth should charge interest on this money. I hope that we will get away from what previous governments have done and what this Government is continuing to do in this regard because it makes an enormous difference to the States and municipalities concerned whether the money is provided by way of a grant which in my contention it should be if the money comes from revenue or whether it is provided by way of a loan which bears interest over 40 years and therefore costs twice as much in the end as the amount borrowed in the beginning. But the excuse made by the Minister in his second reading speech as to the reason for charging interest is along the lines that the sewerage authorities are considered to be business undertakings which should generally rely on loan funds. I cannot for the life of me imagine why a sewerage authority should be regarded as a business undertaking. I have never heard of sewerage authorities selling the end product which is what happens in all the business undertakings about which I know. For example, those involved in generating electricity, supplying gas or providing water. To regard a sewerage authority as a business undertaking and to put this forward as an excuse for charging interest is something which I am sure if the Minister had had real time to consider he would have eliminated from his speech because it really is a rather absurd proposition. 
The second excuse which has been presented is that the present Australian. Government does not intend to bail out the sewerage authorities without conducting a proper analysis of their indebtedness. By all means let us have a proper analysis of their indebtedness so as to ascertain whether something should be done about their existing indebtedness. That is what bailing out means. But do not add additional indebtedness on top of their present indebtedness on the ground that this Government does not know what the present indebtedness is and that it does not know whether it should bail them out. I would like to see this Parliament really examine the question of the provision of funds to States and to other authorities. By all means charge interest on money when interest is required, that is, when the money has been borrowed originally, but do not charge interest on funds which come from revenue money. If we do that then we will turn back the clock. We will be reversing what a previous government did when, for the very reasons I have just put before this House, it relieved the States of the requirement to pay interest on so-called loan money because in the past that loan money had been provided from revenue funds. That was a proper path to follow. I hope we will be able to continue to follow it. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 Does the Prime Minister agree that the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef offers to Australia the opportunity of being unique and giving the most excellent lead in the world in this field of science? Does the Prime Minister agree that the present proposed site has been arrived at after examination by many expert committees and therefore must be supposed to be the best available site for such an institute? Is it a fact that the Institute, when established, will need to have around it an area designated as a national park so that it can operate properly? If the establishment of this Institute at this place either is threatened or appears to be going to be deferred unduly by such a national park not being established by the State Government of Queensland, will the Commonwealth Government consider acquiring the land necessary for such a national park for Commonwealth purposes in order that this Institute may go ahead rapidly at its proper place? 
The Opposition has no objection to this Bill. It seems to us that the proposed division between the 2 electorates is well and properly drawn. I would have stopped speaking there,  Mr Speaker,  but I think it is a pity that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has put into his second reading speech on this Bill some of the objectionable parts of it. The Minister said:   . . because of the unprecedented threat made by the Opposition to deny supply ... it may be necessary to hold a general election for this House. 
It may, or it may not be, but it seems to me a pity that those words should have been used. 
MrDaly- That is the only reason for this Bill. 
If it is unprecedented, it is not without good reason. 
Yes, but a point of view is expresed in the Minister's speech. The Minister also said:   the people of the Territory have no State Parliament and, by the refusal of previous LiberalCountry Party Governments, the people have no effective local government either. 
Perhaps the people do not want effective local government. I can say only I hope there is never introduced to this Territory any system of local government without a referendum first being held to decide whether the people want it. Thirdly, the Minister's reference to the question of senators was entirely out of order in his introduction of this Bill. The Opposition does not object to the Bill. We think that the people of the Capital Territory can be relied upon to return one Liberal and one Labor member. I think they would be sensible to do this and to work this way. The Opposition supports the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  In answering a question here relating to the price of land in Canberra the Minister indicated that it all began with my shooting from the hip in order to settle land prices in Canberra. The facts of the matter are that the proposition had been with the Department of the Interior, as it then was, for almost a year, from memory. The Department had reached a conclusion. I was told of the conclusion by  Mr Nixon.  I then put it through Cabinet and we then changed the rating on land. There is no shooting from the hip in that. The result is that instead of leaseholders having their land revalued every 20 years and being charged on that revaluation, they paid rates and taxes the same as everybody else does. That is precisely what the Government is continuing to do now. 
1 rise very briefly to say how pleased I am that this Bill has been introduced. It is an extension of legislation which was brought in when I was Prime Minister and one for which I was very much responsible. I listened to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who has just resumed his seat. I do not think that the Australian Resources Development Bank is in any way affected by this Bill. The Australian Resources Development Bank certainly did not borrow any money overseas until such time as the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill was before the House. Certainly, it has borrowed money since, so has the AIDC and both of them work to the benefit of this country. One of the things which the right honourable member for Lowe saw as being against this Bill was the suggestion that there could be compulsion in taking people's savings. I do not believe that that is so. I would like the Minister for Overseas Trade to mention that point when he replies. I do not believe that there can be any compulsion in taking people's savings. But if there is to be an AIDC and if it is to have an opportunity to go to people, to dictate to people to give it money, surely the bringing in of a motion which allows the people to contribute to the AIDC must be for the people's own good. Frankly I do not think that many people will voluntarily contribute to the AIDC through the national savings fund. I doubt very much if they will because they can get far higher interest rates elsewhere. But if they are to be given a chance, let us write into the Bill that there is to be that chance, provided that there must be no compulsion in the making of such arrangements. 
I rise only to express pleasure that this Bill has been brought in. It does extend the present legislation, I think, to enable the borrowing of money inside Australia as well as outside Australia. That, I believe, is a good thing to do and one that is essential and necessary for the AIDC. The borrowing of money inside as well as outside Australia is essential to the AIDC. It is called upon to get rid of its shares, to survey its investments to see what it can get out of and it is required to get out of them. I think that is a concession by the Minister and one which I find alters the whole primary conception as it was previously. I rise merely to express my pleasure that the AIDC Bill in which  Sir John  McEwen and myself were so vitally interested when it first came in is being extended - I think in a proper way. 
-I desire to take this opportunity, it being the first that has presented itself to me, to indicate that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made a misstatement to this House and misled it for the purpose of the last division. He said that the motion for the adjournment was put and was carried by so many votes to so many other votes. The Hansard record, a copy of which I have in my hand, shows clearly at page 1 167 that  Mr Daly  said: 'I move: "That the question be now put." ' You,  Mr Speaker,  as I think you said during the course of the debate, said: 'I promised to deal with a personal explanation pertaining to matters outside this House'. The honourable member for Mackellar then rose, in pursuance of that arrangement with you, and dealt with that matter. There is no question that the statement made in this House by the Special Minister of State was completely and entirely wrong, and since it will appear in Hansard I believe I should make this explanation. 
-Having been mentioned from time to time in the course of this debate I feel it encumbent upon me to say quite clearly where I stand in this matter. I am in favour of the Film Commission. Let there be no doubt about that. But I do not like the concept of giving a Minister complete control of the Commission. Does this control apply to the whole film, to part of the film or to both? I suggest that it applies to both. So, there is a whole film proposed to be made. Let us say it is a film that presents a Labor point of view. A Liberal Minister says: 'No, we cannot have that. Keep it out. Put it under wraps. We do not want it'. I wonder whether the Labor Party would be so keen to have a Minister exercising that responsibility under those circumstances. If a part of a film was involved- just some scene in it- I wonder whether the Labor Party would be pleased if the Liberal Minister said: 'Cut that scene out. We cannot have that sequence. It is bad for public relations'. I put the matter that way because I want the Government to think of it. 
Our opposition is not just opposition for opposition's sake. It is quite clearly a case where no Party should have control in the sense in which this Bill gives control to the Minister. I cannot see why the Government is so firm on insisting on this matter. I want the Government to think what the situation would be if the Minister were a Liberal Minister. One honourable member on the Government side suggested that in putting forward our opposition we were opposing for opposition 's sake. He said that the Minister always had these powers in the past; why not continue them in the future? I suggest that we do not continue them in the future because we are setting up a Commission. That is why we do not continue them into the future. Having set up the Commission and having given it the powers then it goes on with the powers whether the Government is as at present constituted or in a few months' time if we come in as a government. In either case, I suggest that that is a reasonable proposition. 
I do not like the provision giving directions for short films to be included in Australian quotas. I do not mind some short films being included in 
Australian quotas. But I can foresee a circumstance arising in which a film theatre owner could say: 'Well, I have a theatre. I have shown so many 20-minute films, 10-minute films and 15-minute films. I have completed my quota. I am not going to show this full length film which you have put up, because I have completed my quota already by the use of short films'. That, I suggest, is not a good proposition for the film industry in this country. If the quota was to be cut down to some percentage of short films, that is fine. But for the whole lot to be included is something that I find very different. 
I refer to one other matter which has not been raised at all so far. This is the matter of the definition of a person who is going to be helped by this legislation. In the definition the provision is that the Film Commission must have regard to the nationality and place of residence of the person to be assisted. I think the legislation previously said that regard had to be had to the nationality. Now regard must be had to the nationality and place of residence. If that provision is persisted in, some famous Australian living overseas for some time would not be able to have or would be seriously hampered in having a film made in Australia. Let us say that a famous singer living abroad was to come here for the making of that film, for example. No film could be made of her life. 
-Joan Sutherland, for example. There are many other examples too. 
-Morris West is another. One could go on. Regard must be had to the place of residence of these people. I would like the Government to consider whether it is not enough just to say: 'We will have regard to nationality'. That is all I wish to say. I do not think there is much politics in this Bill. But I want the Government to understand that our opposition is not opposition for opposition's sake; it is opposition to try to make a good Bill a better Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 7- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 7a. 
-I feel that everybody should have an opportunity to express an opinion on this matter and I will express my opinion very sharply and shortly by saying that I disagree entirely with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and I agree entirely with the Bill. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth seems to me to make the worst of every possible consideration to be examined. I speak as one who put through the existing Matrimonial Causes Act some years ago in the Senate. Paragraph (b) of the amendment contains these words: the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months . . . 
In regard to  90  per cent or  85  per cent of people, this is a retrograde step- one which the BUI takes but, having taken it, the Bill then stops. It is a retrograde step because now many divorces are taking place within that period of  i2  months. But we are asked to require a period of separation of  12  months. The existing law provides- I think the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  referred to this- a great number of grounds for divorce, including cruelty, adultery and incessant intoxication. None of these grounds exists under the BUI as it is at the moment. Whether or not these things can be examined in a family court, they cannot be brought forward as a reason for divorce, and therefore that is better. But, after making it worse for 85  per cent, sub-paragraph (a) of the amendment proposes that a divorce shall not be granted unless the parties separated and lived apart for a continuous period of not less than  24  months-  2  years. The clear intention of this is to reduce the present period of  5  years separation, where one party does not agree to the divorce, to one of  2  years. What we are giving up in return for that is that the parties cannot be divorced unless they have been married for one year. So it seems to me, as it seemed to the Senate which examined this matter, that it is simpler to say- it is not ideal, but it is simpler- that all marriages can be dissolved at the request of one party after  12  months living apart and to leave it at that. That is the position for which I propose to vote. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government promise to reform the Commonwealth's Archives. 
Did he announce on 7 March 1974 the Government's intention to appoint a Director-General, Australian Archives. 
Was the position of Director-General, Australian Archives, widely advertised, and did applications close on 13 April 1974. 
Is it a fact that a Director-General, Australian Archives, has not yet been appointed. 
5 ) Did he, when tabling the Lamb Report on Archives on 7 March 1974, foreshadow several measures of reform, including the introduction of a National Archives Bill, the appointment of a Director-General, Australian Archives, and the creation of a special advisory Task Force on Archives, none of which were subsequently implemented. 
What are the reasons of the Government for the nonfulfilment of its Archives reform promises. 
7 ) Is it a fact that one of the Government 's election promises in 1 972 was ' open government '. 
Does 'open government' mean easier public access to official records. 
Is it a fact that no significant steps have been taken by the Government to make more accessible to the public records 30 years old or more. 
Does the Government continue to espouse the promise of 'open government'. 
I do not propose to take up the time of the House for very long. This Bill, as other speakers before me have said, is a Bill to provide superannuation for Commonwealth employees. That is all it is. Honourable members can fulminate about inflation and how many millions of dollars the scheme will cost if they run inflation for 30 years ahead. That does not matter a bit. This is simply a Bill to give Commonwealth employees a proper superannuation. We have here proposals which, when we extend them across the public sector of all the States, are very decent proposals indeed. It is of little use comparing this proposal with a private sector proposal. How do we work out what the private sector can pay or does pay? We have one section of private enterprise which pays high salaries and another which pays low salaries. Are we to take the average? Are we to take the lowest point? It is of no significance at all. But compared with State superannuation schemes this is, I suggest, not a bad scheme at all. 
The maximum contribution under this scheme as proposed is 10 per cent of salary. In Victoria it is 9 per cent of salary; in Queensland 6.5 per cent of a male's salary; in South Australia 6 per cent of salary and in Tasmania 5.5 per cent of salary. If we take the Bill and ask: How does this compare across the public employment stratum generally, we find that 10 per cent is a reasonably high payment to make. That is the maximum payment. 
The maximum retirement benefit proposed under this scheme is 70 per cent of final salary. The corresponding figures on percentage of final salary are: Victoria 70 per cent; Queensland 75 per cent; South Australia 66.7 per cent; and Tasmania 66.7 per cent. This proposal is not far out of the general run of State controlled superannuation schemes if we compare it with that which I suggest we should compare it. 
I turn to the widow's pension which, I understand, is to be the subject of some proposed amendment by the Opposition. The widow's pension is to go up to 67 per cent of the pension received by the husband before he died. The relative widow's pensions in the other States as a percentage of the husband's pension are: New South Wales 66.7 per cent; Victoria 66.7 per cent; Queensland 62.5 per cent; South Australia 66.7 per cent; Western Australia 62.8 per cent and Tasmania 66.7 per cent. We are going up 0.3 per cent on most of the State widow's pensions. Yet this aspect is to be the subject of an amendment by the Opposition to try to prevent the proposal coming into practice. 
We have the annual pension adjustments which on the Austraiian Public Service proposal should be based on the increase in the consumer price index. Annual pension adjustments in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are based on the consumer price index, though in the case of Tasmania the adjustment is made twice yearly. There is nothing really outrageous in that proposition as far as I can understand it. 
I turn to the commutation of retirement pension. The Bill says that an employee can commute the Government payment and then he does not get any increase as a result. But in New South Wales, part of the pension, in excess of $34 a week, can be commuted. In Queensland, the whole of the pension can be commuted. In Victoria, anything above $46.50 per fortnight or 30 per cent of the pension can be commuted. So it is with the other states. 
I cannot for the life of me see what the objection is to this Bill as it is written. It is a Bill initiated by a Liberal Government, the McMahon Government. It was sent to independent actuaries. The Bill, as it now comes down, by and large carries out the suggestions of those independent actuaries. Yet we are told it is going to be amended and prevented from being passed because the  Chairman  of the Council of Australian Government Employees Organisations has let it be known in the Press that if it is amended as it is proposed to be amended he would sooner drop it and not have another Bill at all. We have carried on for a long time now. We have been talking about a superannuation Bill for Commonwealth public servants. We have now got a Bill which, as I said, is very little different from the State Bills. Surely the Commonwealth can be allowed a small improvement on what the States give. 
For my part, I propose to vote for the Bill as it is brought in, and I strongly oppose the amendments which are being moved from this side of the House, with one exception. The Bill takes out the optional retirement at 65. 1 think myself that there should be an optional retirement at 65 and that should continue, but this is not even to be the subject of an amendment moved by the Opposition. I suggest that an Opposition amendment could be drafted to cover this matter. This is a Bill which was initiated by the McMahon Government, which went to actuaries, and which they reported on. I think it should be supported and I propose to support it and to vote for it as it is written. 
-Will the Minister for Education acquaint the House with the thinking of the Government in the recent decision to move the Schools Commission to Albury-Wodonga? Does he realise that many members of that Commission have bought houses in Canberra, having sold their previous houses, and are subject to considerable loss? Does he further understand that many members of the Commission have working husbands or wives and that they will either have to live in Canberra while their spouses live in Albury-Wodonga or give up their jobs? 
