As the newly elected member for McMillan and as the only member of the Australian Country Party to have represented that electorate, I appreciate this opportunity to take part in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I congratulate the mover of the motion for the presentation of the Address-in-Reply, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  and the seconder of the motion, the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  for the way in which they introduced the debate into this House and for the points they made. I think that we can look forward to some very strong debate from honourable members on the Government side. I also congratulate the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who made his presence felt and who left no doubt as to the earnestness of the part that he will play in this Parliament. 1 deem it a signal honour to be standing in this national Parliament, having arrived here through the medium of a democratic way of voting, and to express the loyalty of the people of McMillan to the Queen. I hope that honourable members who come to this House will always be given the opportunity to do so. It is clear that there are elements within our midst desirous of deleting any reference to our ancestral mother country; they would sever the traditional ties of democratic government if given the opportunity. I refer in particular to the suggested removal of the Union Jack from the Australian flag. As descendants of pioneers and early settlers, we have held to the traditions that came with the first unfurling of the flag on Australian shores in 1788, one important tradition being the bicameral system of government. Again this is being challenged by some people on the ground that it has only traditional value. They say that today's world demands something different. We need to be very wary of changes, without due consideration, to the traditional origin of our heritage and our flag. Men have laid down their lives to preserve what it signifies, as a guiding star for future generations to follow. Loyal Australians will ever say 'no' to any Party, person or government that wants to design a new flag without the Union Jack. Let us not allow anyone to downgrade the flag that symbolises so much of our Christian and British way of life. 
Of course we want to be Australians. We want to be different. We can be different and still retain that little safeguard of tradition. Red, white and blue are precious colours to us. Biblically, red represents blood - the saving blood of Christ - yet it can signify divine judgment. White symbolises purity and holiness. God calls us as a nation to obey his commandments and laws. Blue is the colour of the sky, reminding us that God lives. Red is the Son, white the Holy Spirit and blue the Father - the impersonal God. That is the message that the Union Jack represents, and it has gone out to the four corners of the earth as the bearer of human values, giving great ideas of civilisation and ordered life. To me. any Australian ashamed of the flag is equivalent to one who is ashamed of his very own mother. 
I stand here today as the successor to the former Liberal member for McMillan who gave 17 years of very conscientious service  to  his electorate. 1 pay tribute to him for the contribution he made to this Parliament. He was a member of several important committees to which he gave his best endeavours. I trust that he and his wife will enjoy good health in their retirement and that the fellowship of the many friends they made while serving in 6 parliaments will remain with them always. 
Before I launch into battle as a new recruit in the Opposition let me offer my congratulations to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the Government. My sincere congratulations go also to the newly elected  Speaker  for the very high office that he holds and to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr 
Scholes) who is the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. These are very important positions within this Parliament. I say to the Prime Minister and his team that they are in government because they won the majority of the seats, but they could be out of office in a very short time if they continue to ignore this Parliament as they have done over the past 12 or 13 weeks. There is no doubt that the Australian Labor Party was given a mandate to govern. But the antics of acting the perfect role of a dictatorship - I say this advisedly - have scared the Australian public into rethinking their position. Prior to the election many people fell for the slogan: It's time for a change.' But many more are now saying: 'Time will tell. When will this ideological philosophy end and common sense prevail?' The reason for my saying that is abundantly clear to those of us who have great credence in a democratic system of parliament. 
It is many weeks since the Parliament was prorogued. It is 12 weeks since the election was held last December. For several of those 12 weeks we had a 2-man dictatorship. We saw that same dictatorship jump the gun on the 7 per cent upward revaluation of the Australian dollar. The consequences of that were just being realised by the unsuspecting public when the United States dollar was devalued. This has created alarm. All previous governments have paid currency variation compensation. The previous Government paid up to $ 1 1 1 m. But no such thing has been indicated by the present Government up to this point of time. I can speak with some authority about the effects of the revaluation because I have evidence that one export industry in my electorate will lose $14,500 on orders already on the water. That is real evidence of the effect on one industry. But what is more important, of course, to my dairy farmers is the estimated 2c per lb on butterfat that they will lose. If the Government refuses to compensate our exporters in vital primary, secondary and mineral industries this country will face a sorry situation. Perhaps this is the way the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  expects that he can implement his hand-out program without increasing taxation. There has been a 10 to 12 per cent rise in revenue and expenditure in recent years, particularly over the last 2 years, revenue and expenditure increases have been roughly the same, but revenue could not be expected to meet the expenditure the Government now proposes unless, of course, inflation runs riot and taxes of necessity increase. We have had indicated to us, even today, the Government's intention to establish a prices justification tribunal or board. Reliance on a prices justification policy operating at the end of the line after increased costs have been injected into the economic system will do little to curb inflation. 
As a new member enjoying the courtesy of the House I will not embark on a recital of all the many concerns I have about the policies of the new Government as outlined in His Excellency's Speech. It was certainly a bold and imaginative legislative program that he outlined. From my observation I would say that it is based completely on the theories of socialism. If allowed to become a reality in its entirety it would spell disaster for this country. Therefore it is incumbent upon us members in Opposition to bring some reality into this Parliament. I have been amazed at some of the outbursts from the Government side about progressive administration resulting from Country Party representation. Country Party representation in this' Parliament, I want to remind the House, has been responsible for many of the stabilisation plans, particularly in primary industry. As yet this Government has not demonstrated any knowledge of such matters. The Country Party participation in this Parliament has been a contribution of the greatest national importance and I make no apology for arriving here under the Country Party banner and hope that my contribution to this Parliament will reach the same high standard of values on all national issues, one of these being decentralisation. 
I take issue with those who would deny those we represent the right to be heard and defended. All the remarks about gerrymanders are based on the thinking of those about to do the same thing. Growth centres I do not oppose, but I view with concern the move to do only what has been outlined in the scheme for a so-called Utopia - Utopia was talked about today - in the Albury-Wodonga area and other areas. It appals me to think that when the electorate of McMillan has every natural resource at its disposal this Government talks of developing a whole new complex. What an expensive exercise this will be. The growth centre at Albury-Wodonga will be away from the seaboard, and materi als will have, to be brought into the area and locally manufactured goods will have to traverse again the same route to the export terminal. 
In McMillan we also have the Latrobe Valley's huge industrial complex which is now almost at a standstill. Many towns in close proximity, with natural resources in abundance and of immense value, want to be involved and recognised. They want to be assisted. I also refer to the brown coal deposits which provide our power resources throughout Victoria and which I undertook as a candidate to have researched as potential liquid fuel resources as a defence measure. We have, as yet unconserved, a plentiful water supply, natural timber and planted pine forests and a variety of minerals. All of these - or any one of them individually - are of such significant importance as to create natural growth in the existing towns and in appropriate industries. 
My own council is one of the many shire councils which are showing initiative towards fostering industry and the natural development of such industry as is appropriate to the area. They should be given every assistance from a national fund. This would prove to be a much more economic proposition, with much more permanency and with a greater encouragement for the distribution of our population, than would artificial monolithic centres. People should be given confidence in their future. A realistic and economic measure, such as lowering the costs of communications, should be investigated forthwith. This is one area in which action ought to be taken immediately and should be the subject of one of the terms of reference of the inquiry into the Australian Post Office. The Commonwealth can help directly in the growth of regional centres, as can the States, by locating some of its activities in those centres. Naturally significant amounts of long-term finance could ensure a successful and sensible national and natural development. 
The fear that 1 have is the encouragement by this Government of the trade unions to demand shorter working hours, 4 weeks holiday and higher wages, which will destroy any decentralisation effort. I have always been a great believer in long-term finance. It is the only fair means of assisting people in the primary and secondary industries and the only real opportunity that many have of getting houses, getting re-established or initially launched. Long-term finance guarantees a person's security in times of lower prices and the many disasters which primary producers face from fire, flood and disease. Many young dairy farmers would welcome protection from financial crisis. I will welcome, and even congratulate this Government if it has the intestinal fortitude to provide it, that ยง500m with which it wooed the Australian electors prior to 2nd December. As one who has a close association with hospitalisation, social welfare and handicapped people, 1 will be a very keen critic of any change in policy in this field, and again will welcome on behalf of these unfortunate people the assistance that has been promised. In the McMillan electorate we have some very fine hospitals, but a program of further assistance for the frail aged is very necessary, and again it will be my earnest endeavour to see that this Government honours its election promise. 
I hope to see a realistic approach to a national water conservation program. It is becoming more and more evident that there is a great lag in some areas. This situation dispels confidence among those who might contemplate establishing industries. The selfish attitude of metropolitan dwellers demanding more and more water from the rural areas is creating inequalities and disregarding the equitable distribution of our water resources. This is happening in the electorate I represent. I want water conservation plans updated to ensure the rights of the municipalities and the people within them and a guarantee that there will be no retardation of their natural growth. 
In McMillan university and tertiary education facilities are becoming a pressing need. With no university facilities in the eastern half of Victoria - this is pretty hard to imagine, but it is a fact - the establishment of the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education forms a sound basis for future expansion into university faculties. As the demand for these facilities rises, I hope to see the great election promises of this Government honoured. 
It has been my pleasure to speak to this motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply as a forerunner of my contributions to this House as a representative of the Australian Country Party and the electors of McMillan, who have given me the honour of speaking on their behalf. Stepping down from the serenity of the Victorian Legislative Council into this battle arena is  a  somewhat awesome experience. My maiden speech was like getting married for the second time - I was nervous on both occasions. 
After much patience and persistence I rise to draw to the attention of the Government some anomalies which I believe exist within the Department of Social Security. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will act to correct them. The first anomaly affects a few people only. It is a matter of principle and causes concern to the parents whom it affects, lt is a case where country parents are disadvantaged by our child endowment policy. A family of 3 children with the eldest a spastic child receives only $18 per quarter instead of $36, which is the normal amount. The reason that this happens to the country parents is that the spastic child has to be boarded at a registered spastic centre. Normally $6 for the first child is allocated for this purpose. The second child is then classified as the first child and the third child is classified as the second child. This results in a payment being made of $18. City parents who take their spastic children to the spastic centre daily receive the full $36 per quarter. Surely parents in the country who have 3 children are entitled to be recognised as such and should receive the same payment of $36 as do city parents. This would allow the country parents to contribute the same amount to the centre as do city parents. The cost of boarding a child at a centre is borne by the country parents. Surely this anomaly could be rectified. It is disturbing to the parents and discriminatory in its application. 
The other matter to which I want to draw the attention of the Goverment is an anomaly which recently was brought to my attention concerning the reason why many people suffer embarrassment in the field of social welfare. It is caused by parents not receiving the first payment of their social benefits after their needs have been recognised. Perhaps with the indulgence of the House, I could read a report that was made by a social worker who represents a group involved with spastic children. The Berwick Shire Council recently received a report from the social worker which states, in part: 
Income Loss - Of all the referrals, seventeen per cent had no income. All but 2 situations involved dependent children. Hie average number of children in no-income families was 4. Mostly, these families are in the low income group, and are severely affected by the delays in workers compensation, insurance, Commonwealth sickness and unemployment benefits, and pensions, and worst of all by delays in initial payments of Social Welfare Department assistance. 
This latter is the cause of deserted wives and prisoners' wives waiting for an average of 4 weeks for the first cheque. Often the waiting period can be 6 to 7 weeks. Yet, if the children in those families were admitted to State care, the cost to the State would be $60 per child per week, minimum. 
This excerpt from the social workers report was submitted for my information and the Council to which it was reported has asked me to take this matter up with the Government. I hope that the Government will take heed of this matter. The letter further stated: 
The Council is of the opinion that just as money has been made available to University Councils and 
Colleges for Advanced Education with the power to make grants or loans to destitute students, so also should money be made available to Councils, to enable Councils to aid, or loan money to destitute people. 
From the initial allocation the Council would establish a revolving fund which would continue to operate as repayments of loans were made. I think this is worthy of serious consideration and I think this is a very humane approach to a problem which exists within our community. 
I now turn to the problem facing rural towns and their natural development. The Government has indicated in various statements that it is prepared to promote a distribution of population and even create new growth centres. However growth by utilisation of natural resources is one way of ensuring success. I do not want to traverse at great length the points I made during my maiden speech, but I want to ask this Government to give serious consideration to putting its money where its mouth was during the last election. Prosperity and progress of our existing towns in my electorate can be achieved by spending the Government's money wisely, and I would suggest the use of rural employment money to do this. 
The first step would be to update the planned water storages on our Gippsland rivers to give an equitable distribution of this great natural resource. Water resources are in abundance. The metropolitan demands for water are giving cause for concern and are a threat to rural area development and decentralisation itself. We have seen recently most of the headwaters of our streams in the Gippsland area being diverted as a cheap filch of our rural water resources so that metropolitan people can have water. I would not deny them their right to have water, but the rural interests must be protected in the process. To achieve this we need to update some of the plans already made and accepted by the various Government departments. We could update the plans for the Thomson River dam, which is proposed for 1989, and the dam on the Mitchell River, which is in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  Both these dams are now urgently required and both would give assistance to achieving an equitable distribution of water resources. 
There is a need to vary Commonwealth policy on the expenditure of rural relief funds. Millions of dollars have been earmarked to assist rural employment. No better use could be made of such funds to achieve a productive result than to update our water storage and water conservation programs to provide regulating storages on our Gippsland streams. At least 3 storages are a very high priority need. Water is our most precious natural resource, and new water storages would have real and lasting effect and would hasten the wise utilisation of presently unregulated streams. In other words, water conservation has a twofold effect. 
Some years ago the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission in Victoria built a storage dam on the Tarago River to serve the West Gippsland towns. This river is the life blood of the very productive lowlands towards Westernport Bay and the Koo Wee Rup Swamp. Because of this conservation the Bunyip River summer flow diminished and farmers previously dependent upon it had to have their water supplies rationed and they became gravely alarmed. They looked at the economics of a reticulated supply and realised the soundness of the proposition. This scheme has been piloted and planned by some very enthusiastic landowners who live along the Bunyip River in the West Gippsland area. They plan to ensure that the very productive Koo Wee Rup Swamp farmers have adequate water supplies. The Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has approved the plan. Finance to put this wonderful scheme into immediate operation is required urgently. Loan funds for this should be made available forthwith. This money will come back to the Treasury and would indicate to the people in the rural areas that the Government does have a sympathetic ear for the economic stability of our rural people. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
We all have sympathy for 'home seekers. The shortage of housing accommodation is a distressing situation in any circumstances. The demand for housing through the State housing commissions has been creating serious problems for quite a time and the supply, of course, is well behind the demand. This is a serious situation in a developing country like Australia. Quite often it is difficult to obtain a true assessment of the actual number of people who are waiting for houses. The reason I make that point is that a person seeking a home can go along to a housing commission and be told that he can put his name down on the housing list but will not get a house for at least 2 years. In those circumstances a difficult situation arises for anybody who is seeking a home immediately. Sometimes a person has a job in the offing and requires a home. He usually finishes up in some broken down shack as an emergency and it becomes something permanent by tacking a few more boards on here and there. It is a poor environment in which to bring up families. 
The States for some time have been battling with this problem and have made a request to this Government for some finance. As my colleague the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  said, when the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  was blowing the whistle and saying what a good job he was doing in making the money available, the States cried out 'Hooray', but came down to earth as soon as they saw the conditions. I am pleased to say that during the time that this Bill has been in this House for debate its passage has been somewhat slow. I am sure that the Minister has seen the difficulties that he posed for the States when he first made the demand that all the homes financed under this scheme should be for rental purposes. This Bill makes an allocation of additional funds to the State housing authorities and it is most welcome at this time particularly when State governments are embarking on a decentralisation program. But this decentralisation program will only progress, of course, in conjunction with the basic needs of the community, and one of the basic needs is housing. Housing is of prime importance and is fundamental to the success of any decentralisation program. 
The Australian Country Party, of course, is no stranger to this type of argument. While in government in Victoria we were in the happy position of having up to 51 per cent of housing built in country areas. At that stage it looked at though Victoria would be decentralised, but a change of government unfortunately altered that pattern. The redistribution of seats created a greater demand within metropolitan areas because of the number of members living in those areas. While we are not debating a Bill on the redistribution of electoral boundaries at this time I believe that one of the arguments that could be used is that there are too many hands in the barrel demanding money for the metropolitan areas at a time when decentralisation ought to be the main consideration. It is with some knowledge of the result of the practical use of housing that I comment on the Bill that is before us now. I pay the Government a compliment. It was quite observant of the Government to notice the need for housing accommodation within our community. What did the the Government do? It rushed in and in a menacing attitude stood over the States and said that it had $6.5m available to the States for housing. The Government knew that the States badly needed the finance and it was prepared to make the finance available at a low rate of interest and to allow 50 years for repayment. That was very good. It reeked of a sense of responsibility. The Government then dropped the clanger and said that the States could have the money only as long as they did not sell any of the houses which were constructed. 
I think they did. 
They will in the future, and 1 think they did at that stage too until th. Minister somewhat softened in his attitude and said: 'Look, this makes up the leeway, and I am not making my demands on the $6.5m.' I think that was the compromise that was reached. 1 suppose that attitude is fair enough while there is a demand for rental accommodation. 1 concede that point but it is a policy with which 1 personally disagree. It is an overall policy and of course sub-clause 2 of clause 8 of the Bill permits the sale of houses with the consent of the Minister. That is the present situation. Despite that the Minister said in his second reading speech: 
I want to make it perfectly clear that it is nol my intention to give consent to the sale of any of these dwellings to prospective home owners. 
They are the Minister's own words. The States agreed to that proposition because they needed the houses; so did the needy people. I wonder whether the Minister and the Government realise that many people live in rental premises while waiting for the oppor tunity to own a home of a better standard and that if houses were made available for sale the same quantity of rental houses would be available to those people who only want to lease. 
Many people within the community have a desire to own their homes. It is the needy people who require homes to rent. People who move from a rented home into a home which has been built for them create vacancies; so people who want a lease can obtain at a cheap rental a home which is more suitable to their needs. I do not wish to labour this point too much. I believe this Bill makes possible an allocation which is badly needed at this time. This Government should react favourable to the recommendations and firm opinions of the States that it is far better for an individual to own a home than to rent one. This Government should make money available to the States to use in a responsible and discretionary manner so that we can cater for both the purchaser and the tenant. Then it will be acting in a fair and proper manner and will be doing something which we as individuals will applaud. 
I realise that there are dangers in too much government interference with home ownership. Private enterprise and bodies with initiative, such as co-operative housing societies, play an important role and utilise private finance to the advantage of the home builder and home ownership. There would be nothing worse than having an area in which all the houses were similar. A previous speaker tonight made this point when he said that an area containing houses of a similar design, all for rental, would soon reach a stage where it would become obvious to a passerby that the houses were not owned by the tenants. That is no reflection on the tenants; it would be normal for such a thing to happen. Tenants cannot be expected to keep up the paintwork and the maintenance of someone else's property, particularly at a time when it is difficult to get people to do maintenance work. There is a shortage of skilled people in various trades, and maintenance on housing commission buildings particularly is well below standard. Pride in home ownership is to be fostered and is admired by all. 
Home ownership has many advantages and today it can be achieved on a purchase-rental payment plan. Home ownership is not subject to rent increase or eviction because of a government decision resulting in a person's income being above a permissible limit. This could be a distressing factor for people who are leasing a home and whose income rises above the permissible limit. Just imagine getting your family settled in a home and finding that your job pays better than anticipated; you would be forced to look for other accommodation. 
We of the Australian Country Party want to see decentralisation assisted. Housing is the guarantee of the rural areas. The Country Party has advocated this always and, as I said, did so to the tune of 51 per cent when it was in government on a previous occasion. Mention of the terra 'per cent* reminds me of the promise of the Australian Labor Party in its propaganda during the December election campaign. It promised to make interest payments on mortgages a tax deduction. We have not seen that plan initiated at this point of time and perhaps the Minister for Housing will tell us why that plan has been shelved by the Government at this stage. Has he forced the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to accede to his idea of homes for rental only? Perhaps it is a case of the Government saving its money and making a good fellow of itself by giving some to the States. What a blow this would be to the ambitious man who wants to build a nice home for his family. If the Minister has his way - let us hope he does not - such a man will not be able to buy a house from the housing commission, and a home buyer will not get the interest concession if he builds one. Therefore a state of confusion exists while home seekers put up with whatever emergency accommodation they can find. 
The allocation of this money will help but we will need a lot more. In the process let us build something for this Commonwealth on a solid basis and encourage and sustain the distribution of our population. The Country Party does not believe in class distinction. Even the lowest income earner who is conscientious should be able to commence to build himself a home which will be an asset and which will provide security for his family and for himself in his old age. Interest on the lower income earner's purchase mortgage should be deductible from taxation returns. Let us take pride in the development of our newer areas by creating the opportunity for home ownership. 
I should like to mention a point raised by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who preceded me in this debate. I refer to bornes for aged people. These are one of the crying needs of most of our areas. It is pitiful to see people being taken away from the environment in which they have lived for up to 60 and 70 years in many cases. They are taken from the loved ones around them, the people they cared for in their fitter years and whom they would like to be able to care for in their older years. They are taken from the people they know and the environment that they have loved. For a good many of those people it is a very sad ending. If the Government is going to spend money on housing, homes for the aged, particularly for the frail aged, are one of the crying needs within our community. I recommend to the Minister for Housing that he gives serious consideration to building additional homes throughout the various communities so that our elderly people can live in comfort and in close proximity to those they love. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister clarify his statement that the present Government is not bound by the decisions or policies of the previous Government in relation to assistance to rural industries? Will he indicate whether it is the new Government's intention to amend in any way the Dairying Industry Act 1970 under which the dairy industry is guaranteed a minimum of $29m in Government bounty each year during the course of the present 5-year dairy stabilisation plan? 
I wish to join with my colleague, the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  in supporting this Bill. I congratulate him on the contribution that he made to the debate. It is remarkable that whenever supporters of the Government rise to speak in a debate in this House they preface their remarks by referring to the failure of the previous Government to take certain action during its 23 years in office. I think those honourable members who think that the previous Government was a failure should cast their minds back to what happened 50 years ago when war service home loans were first granted. If they were to make a comparison of the values of that time with present day values they would find that the government of that time did not fail in its action but did the right thing by the exservicemen who earned their entitlement to benefits. 
That was a Liberal-Country Party government. This Bill is designed to extend eligibility for what were formerly known as war service homes but which are now to be called defence service homes. It is of necessity a very important piece of legislation. Like all Government legislation there is some of the fanaticism of Australian Labor 
Party policy embedded very carefully into this Bill. 1 must confess that on occasions I find myself in agreement with some of the Labor Party's humanitarian approaches. Unfortunately we all have to face the realities of life. Whenever amending legislation is before the House the Opposition must do its best to incorporate in it as many benefits as is possible. Initially the Australian Government set up war service homes loans as compensation to our citizens for their active participation in the defence of this country. Those who were prepared to go and those who went overseas to fight were eligible. 
This Bill, of course, makes 4 changes to the present Act. One completely changes the title of the legislation. Another provision recognises the rights of single females to own their homes. I find myself in complete agreement with this proposal. Most ex-service women have given meritorious service in our defence forces in many fields. I think we should recognise all of them. The Bill also extends eligibility for defence service home loans and benefits to national servicemen and officers who stayed in the Services after 7th December. However the real implication of the extension is somewhat obscure but one must agree that this departure from the former eligibility for benefits is reasonable when one considers the necessity to maintain a reasonable number in our defence forces. I completely agree with the point made by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  that the Government has somewhat stretched the qualifications to include somebody who. in our opinion, is getting a sop to stay in the forces to build up the numbers within the defence forces. One wonders whether the proposed extensions to include almost anyone who dons a service uniform are a sop to encourage national servicemen not to bail out when their period of service concludes but to stay on because, if they do so, they will be eligible for war service homes. 
Another point I make in connection with this Bill is very important. The Bill provides for an increase in the maximum loan from $9,000 to $12,000  -  scarcely enough in view of today's inflated home values. I think honourable members would agree that if one wants to buy a reasonable standard home, in most areas of the Commonwealth one would look at something in the. price range of $18,000 to $20,000. Even with a loan of $12,000, a deposit of $8,000 must be paid. It is difficult to get bridging second mortgage finance if one does not have the $8,000 deposit. 
Built into some of the provisions of the Bill is one anomaly which will continue to create some concern to eligible borrowers. I refer to a set of circumstances when, perhaps for health reasons, a returned serviceman has to leave his business which contains his dwelling place as part of that business. I instance a farm. A farmer may continue to operate, the farm on a share basis or a rental basis. Of course he will not have 2 homes on the farm and he must have a home in which to live. It has been brought to my attention that a returned serviceman who has followed a farming occupation all his life and who has not utilised his war service home entitlement may find, because of ill health that he cannot continue with his farm. It is necessary for him to have a reasonable living so he puts the farm out on shares. He probably gets about a third of the farm income. However, he is ineligible for a war service home loan under those conditions because, according to the Act, he owns a home, although it is his business. 1 think the Government should examine this particular situation which puts this chap and many others in the same category. This is one of the anomalies which exists in the Act at this time. This can apply not only to a farmer but also to a mixed business where the home and the shop are in the same building. It can apply in many instances- 
That is the old clause and I should like to see it altered. Perhaps I can more clearly illustrate this point by saying that when a farmer, who has invested his whole life's savings and his whole life's effort in his farm, reaches the age when he must share farm he feels that he has missed out on the war service benefits that he should have received and to which he was entitled. He would feel very disappointed with the war service authorities and with his lot as a result. I should like the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  to give me an assurance on this particular point because if a man's business includes his place of abode - which is a necessity in the conduct of that business - his entitlement to a war service home loan for a private home should not be denied him. 
I conclude by adverting to the change of title of the Act. I think that in the years to come we will be speaking, with some nostalgia, of the name Var service homes', which is disappearing from the scene. It is a description of long standing within the community and is recognised as something associated with the defence of this country- I think it is an insult to those people who served in the First World War and the Second World War to alter the name of the Act at this stage just because the Government wants to include national servicemen, who do not go away, as a sop to keep them in the armed forces. 
That is right, but this relates to the situation after 7 th December. I think the Opposition has made its point and I am prepared to stand by what the Opposition has said. I still think it is an insult to those ex-servicemen. I do not happen to be one, but I have brothers who were, and I know how they feel about this particular proposal. On their behalf I make these points to the Parliament. 
In March this year, due to the enterprise and dedication of many teachers and educationists in the electorate of McMillan, a teachers centre was set in motion. Having been granted an honorary membership of that centre I propose tonight, with the case history of this new concept, to prove to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  the necessity for him to provide Commonwealth financial support. This teaching centre, without doubt, is a place where there is an opportunity to coordinate all Commonwealth education grants and ensure a greater utilisation of Commonwealth grants and a more equitable use of equipment and teachers, ft will promote community involvement in education. The Teachers centre has been fortunate in securing a very sound and spacious building which was formerly Our Lady of Sion convent. It provides ample space and a variety of study rooms, making a very versatile building. 1 have reason to believe that this type of centre which has been initiated, organised and financed by practising teachers is an important project and already it has received the support of both State and Catholic education authorities. The centre has been offered assistance by the Monash University education faculty in the town of staff as occasional lecturers. The organisers are convinced that a teachers centre 4s of great potential value in any district and hope that other groups of teachers and administrators eventually will look at the project as the forerunner of widespread growth of teacher sponsored centres throughout Australia. Belief in the importance of teachers centres is not without substance. The editor of the 'Teachers World' in London wrote in the issue of 12th May 1972: 
It is no overstatement to claim that the concept  of  the teachers centre is one of the most significant and positive ideas to have touched the professional lives of teachers during more than a century of state education. 
The centre will survive without external grants but its potential will never be fully developed. A substantial injection of funds to assist in the first year of operation would enable it to provide quality services to its members. This would boost membership and its finances sufficiently to make the centre financially self-sufficient. I point out that the finances are derived from membership subscriptions of teachers and other people interested in education. 
The Government's stated policy of identifying and eradicating inequalities in education will be implemented in the centre's programs. I believe that the teachers' centre, where staff from all sectors - rural and urban; primary, secondary and tertiary; private and State - gather together is an excellent medium for perceiving areas of need and generating programs to cope with the problems revealed. I believe that a well-equipped centre could perform this role relatively cheaply. Duplication of resources by larger schools should be reduced by pooling in the centre expensive equipment which is not in continuous use. An example might illustrate the point. Teachers are increasingly aware of the potential of fixed camera units in producing their own colour slides photographed from magazines. As these devices would not be needed for daily use in any school, and could not be afforded by most schools in any event, it would surely be sensible for one such item of equipment to be housed in a centre after being purchased with funds levied on a per capita basis from all schools that would use the equipment. Thus the one-teacher schools in the district which could never justify the purchase of such an item would have access to it at a low cost. The large high schools would pay more towards its purchase but would use it more. The end result would be a piece of equipment, which might otherwise lie idle for months on end in a single school, being used regularly by a wide range of schools. 
Apart from material inequalities, many schools suffer from needs of a human kind. The teacher in the isolated rural school is sometimes provided with plenty of hardware by a strong school committee. However, his isolation can leave him ill-equipped with ideas. Access to a centre's activities, as well as its material benefits, would serve the rural teacher well. The centre will promote an active decentralisation of educational services and activities. There will be regular lectures for higher school certificate students and their teachers. Other lecture programs will bring well known educationists from the metropolitan area to speak to teachers and nonteachers. It should be pointed out that many country teachers are involved in courses to update their qualifications. They suffer hardships as a consequence. An example of this might be appropriate. One teacher recently completed a Bachelor of Education degree at a metropolitan university. He has estimated that the cost to him was at least four times greater than it would have been for a counterpart in the metropolitan area. It is submitted that a good professional library in a centre might offset at least some of the disadvantages of being a country teacher trying to do a course. 
The centre will promote community involvement in education and, if adequately funded, might later be available for adult retraining programs - for example, refreSher courses for married women interested in returning to teaching and preliminary courses for persons wishing to become teachers. In conjunction with local officers of the Department of Labour, the centre will run courses or seminars for careers masters from regional schools. It will seek to provide careers information and guidance for students and adults. The centre could serve as a show place for equipment provided to schools by Commonwealth grants. It could serve the dual role of providing a place where the public could be informed of Commonwealth involvement and of providing teachers with functional equipment necessary for the operation of the centre. 
I submit that this is a worthwhile project. I am pleased that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is present in the chamber. I am sure that he appreciates the points I have made and has already had contact with the people concerned. I hope he will recognise the need for financial support. I know that the local teachers would appreciate it if he could visit them some time to look at the centre. 
It is not my intention to reply to the silly asides of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb).  Tonight I appeal to the Government not to deny to rural towns, which have already planned for it, the opportunity to attract people. This House recently passed the Cities Commission Bill and enough argument was put by honourable members on this side of the House against persisting with such a devastating plan. I make the plea particularly for the Shire of Warragul, of whose Council I have the honour to be a member. Only last week the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  visited the shire at the invitation of the Develop Warragul Committee and the Council. The Shire  President  and his wife went to great trouble to ensure that the Treasurer was well feted and given the opportunity to see for himself the great potential for development of our town at a minimum cost to this nation. 
I believe that the case presented for the resiting of the Reserve Bank's note printing works was one of irrefutable facts and I am sure that except for a decision having previously been made by the directors of the Bank the Treasurer would have given his approval. However, as he quite rightly stated, the decision was a technical one and he would not override it. But he said that he would do his best to get the directors to reconsider the decision with my Shire. I pay a compliment to the Treasurer for the attitude that he took and the helpful advice that he gave to the development committee. But I am sure that he would agree with me that the project would provide a natural development for the town of Warragul and the towns within a 40-mile radius. 
This project would take out of the metropolitan area approximately 1,000 employees and their families into a pollutant-free environment and provide a wonderful opportunity for the economic use of many natural resources within the Central Gippsland region. Quite often people tend to forget that those in rural communities have certain rights and they should not be denied these rights because of a huge commitment to new cities throughout the State. The Central Gippsland area provides a golden opportunity for viable and economic expansion. The Treasurer sees great merit in the case presented to him. He sees the economic utilisation of the natural resources, not only by that industry and region but also by the ancillary industries and the existing industrial development that is already taking place. 
These opportunities should not be denied to any area which has similar ambitious development programs. I hope that the new legislation will allow some financial assistance to be given for the development of other than proposed cities, such as the Albury-Wodonga complex. In recognising the need to decentralise, I believe we all agree that we need to take into consideration the available recreational, vocational and environmental amenities in close proximity. These amenities exist within a very short radius of the ribbon development envisaged towards and including the Latrobe Valley. The strangling growth of Melbourne can be solved by such development eastward, and this development can be properly planned to eliminate completely any possibility of pollution. Development to the north, including Albury-Wodonga, has only one outlet for its effluent and that is down the Murray River. I think that problem will be created there. The ribbon development towards the Central Gippsland area presents a wonderful opportunity to resite the note printing works on an economic basis. It would provide employment and also the opportunity for the surrounding areas to be properly developed on an economic basis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 10.59 p.m. until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, 22nd May 1973, or until such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the chair. 
-I appreciate this opportunity to raise a matter of great importance. At the same time I want to criticise this Australian Labor Party Government caustically for the lack of control of its Ministers and for condoning the actions that they take. It appears quite obvious to me that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in unilaterally granting a margarine production licence tothe margarine company 
Marrickville Holdings Ltd, did so without the knowledge of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  This poses a few questions to which I hope the Government will give this Parliament and the people of Australia some honest answers. First, I ask: Why did the Minister for the Capital Territory act so secretly and without consulting the Minister for Primary Industry? Could the answer be that the Minister for the Capital Territory and this Australian Labor Party Government have a close politico-financial alliance with this margarine company? Why would Marrickville Holdings be granted a monopoly licence without any apparent reference to or information being given to other margarine companies, several of which are Australian-owned? Surely the proper way would have been to give the right to all manufacturers to submit a proposition to be studied by the Government. I believe that he should have allowed all margarine companies to compete for the Canberra licence.  His  action prompts the question: Has the Marrickville company been selected to break the quota system by manufacturing in the Australian Capital Terirtory? If so, it is clear to me that this is the most serious threat to the dairying industry in 33 years. 
The Marrickville company could be a stepping-stone to flood interstate markets in defiance of the State quotas. I remind this Parliament and this Government that no company has fought the quota system more determinedly that has Marrickville. It was the company, which, with Lever Brothers, launched the  Mrs Jones'  campaign in 1966. I was then in the Victorian Parliament. That was a misleading advertising campaign and I had great pleasure in supporting the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Sir Gilbert  Chandler, in the legislation which he brouht down at that stage and which defeated their plan. I think they are probably like elephants - they never forget. 
The unilateral granting of permission to Marickville Holdings brings to mind many reports over the years that this company has been one of the Australian Labor Party's backers. This prompts me to ask another question: Is Marrickville at last being rewarded for its political and financial investment in the Australian Labor Party over the years? If one casts one's mind back to the records of prosecutions for breaches of the margarine quota and misleading advertising by margarine companies, Lever Bros and Marrickville Holdings have a poor record. I represent an elec torate where the dairy fanner population is probably one of the largest of any electorate in this Commonwealth, so I view this situation with alarm. Are we to see the great stabilised dairying industry pulled down to its knees by the irresponsible and rather dubious actions of the Minister for the Capital Territory? 
Can the Government honestly condone this approach to the smashing of margarine quotas? The whole episode savours of being near to a public scandal. One company only is selected by the Minister for the Capital Territory. The announcement was made the day before the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council of which his colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, is chairman. The Minister for Primary Industry was not told of the announcement but at a belated moment the Minister for the Capital Territory attended the Australian Agricultural Council meeting and had his actions confirmed on the explanation of the Minister for Primary Industry who said that he was responsible for a misunderstanding in the mind of the Minister for the Capital Territory. It is nice to have colleagues, is it not? But the interesting observations are that prior to the Minister for the Capital Territory making his announcement many things had taken place and, I believe, in anticipation or by collusion. 
Firstly, the factory of Home Pride bakery at Fyshwick was purchased some months ago. Plant suitable only for the manufacture of margarine was installed at least 1 month before the announcement. This surely must have been done in consultation with the Minister and it raises doubts in my mind. It certainly makes a mockery of the statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that there is full consultation within the Ministry and at Cabinet of all policy initiatives. The fact that the licence was granted to a company which apparently had already acquired premises in the Australian Capital Territory is disturbing. It would appear that the Minister by his decision deliberately backed a political favourite and gave it a monopoly. He certainly needs to explain his case. 
I have raised this matter because I believe it should be aired. It is certainly contrary to the allegedly anti-monopolistic Labor policy which is boasted about by honourable members opposite. This action which appears to be somewhat suspect will have the opportunity to break the long standing all-States agreement on quotas. I see it as a threat to an industry traditional for its great contribution to the wealth of this nation. The whole of my electorate will feel its repercussions. This Government will go down in history as one which refused to recognise the importance of the rural areas of this Commonwealth, particularly the most efficient dairying areas which are in the electorate of McMillan and upon which thousands depend for their livelihood. 
It has no effect on them. It concerns me deeply to see the initiatives taken by the coalition government being imperilled because of an anti-rural industry stance taken by Ministers of the Australian Labor Party Government. 
Margarine quotas by the unanimous agreement of the States took into consideration the oil seed industries importance but that industry, because of bad seasons and many disabilities and some lack of know-how, cannot supply the present quotas which were recently increased by 6,000 tons by this Government. This means that the polyunsaturated table margarine industry has to rely on a great quantity of imports and therefore must stand aside for our own nationally important dairy industry. It horrifies me to think that this Government would play one industry off against another when both would manage to exist comfortably in co-operation. That is what the previous Government had promoted. 
Did the Minister for the Capital Territory maintain the spirit of the State Ministers gentlemen's agreement of the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in reference to the production of margarine in the Australian Capital Territory? Can the Minister inform the House of the date of purchase or lease of the Home Pride factory at Fyshwick by Marrickville Holdings Ltd? Was it after the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council? Is it true that the machinery for the manufacture of table margarine was installed only some weeks prior to the announcement that the Minister had given a unilateral licence to Marrickville Holdings Ltd? Why was Marrickville Holdings given this monopoly licence? Will the Minister explain to the Parliament what right he had to make the announcement prior to the May meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council? Did the Minister for Primary Industry cover up for him at that meeting? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Treasurer by referring to a report which appeared recently in the 'Australian Financial Review' that the Government intends to amend section 82H of  the Income Tax Assessment Act. It was stated that as far as provisions relating to life assurance and superannuation deductions are concerned 
On 23 May I raised the matter of the granting of a licence to produce a quota of 300 tons of margarine in the Australian Capital Territory. 1 questioned the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  on a number of matters regarding the company to which he granted a unilateral licence, and I am sorry 'that he is not in the chamber at the moment to hear what I have to say. I believe that this action is an affront to the great national dairy industry. I even went so far as to suggest to the Minister that his actions in doing all these things created grave doubts about the ethics employed by him. I am compelled to raise this matter again tonight. The Minister for the Capital Territory appeared to be very concerned when 1 last raised this matter that I had not informed him that I would speak on the subject of the granting of a unilateral licence. With a flurry of words he cleverly evaded the main topic but assured me that he would read my speech and if it needed a reply he would do so the next day. 
That is right. Apparently the questions I asked and the information I gave to this House made him duck for cover because I did not hear from him the next day. On 24 May, the following day, I asked the Minister a series of direct questions in the House. Again I got a long dissertation, the essence of which was that the Minister did not believe in quotas and that there are no laws governing the manufacture of table margarine in the Australian Capital Territory. He could make one at short notice but he believed that Marrickville Holdings Ltd could be trusted. Who makes a business deal on trust only? 
In the Senate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in reply to a question said that he had been approached by the Minister for the Capital Territory after the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council and asked whether he had any objection to the production of margarine in the Australian Capital Territory.  Senator Wriedt  said he had the clear understanding that the Council was not in disagreement with this course being adopted. Thirteen days ago the Australian Agricultural Council met. This was the day after the Minister for the Capital Territory had surprisingly announced that Marrickville Holdings had been given the Australian Capital Territory licence. At the Australian Agricultural Council meeting 13 days ago the point was clearly made to both  Senator Wriedt  and the Minister that at the February meeting the Council had said that it would consider at its next meeting the concept of the Australian Capital Territory going into margarine production. In other words, the Minister for the Capital Territory preempted consideration by the Australian Agricultural Council. 
The question to ask is: Why? The answer to that question can be found by examining the relationship between the Australian Labor Party and the company which got the Australian Capital Territory margarine quota - Marrickville Holdings Ltd. The relationship is financial. Marrickville Holdings is one of the fat cat backers of the ALP. It has always enjoyed a good-buddy friendship with the ALP. Last year it was rumoured that Marrickville Holdings gave $100,000 to the ALP election funds. 
I said that it had been rumoured. Also, there are reports of gift giving by Marrickville Holdings Ltd to Labor Party officials. Now let us take a look at the sequence of events in the curious granting of this licence. In February, the Minister for the Capital Territory raised at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting the possibility of the Australian Capital Territory having a margarine factory, even though adequate supplies of margarine are available from interstate sources. On 23 March, an Australian Capital Territory registered company, Pearga Pty Ltd, acquired the premises of the Tip Top Bakery at 3 Lithgow Street, Fyshwick. The 3 listed shareholders of that company are: Arthur John Dean Garrisson of 33 Melbourne Avenue, Forrest; Minnie Dean Garrisson of 47 Urenulla Road, Point Piper, New South Wales; and Peter Wolsley Garrisson of 445 Wattle Road, East Malvern, Victoria. It may be as well for the House to know that one of these men was involved in a public company scandal as a director of Testro Bros International Pty Ltd in Victoria some years ago. 
It is 3 Lithgow Street, Fyshwick, which will be the site of the Canberra margarine factory, on the admission of the Minister for the Capital Territory. During April, workmen were employed for labouring at 3 Lithgow Street, Fyshwick, Australian Capital Territory, by an indoor bowling company. It is also interesting to note that within the Marrickville group of companies are the following 2 indoor bowling companies: Olympic Bowl Pry Ltd and Australian Bowling Corporation Pty Ltd. I ask this question: Would not Fyshwick be a very strange place to put an indoor bowling alley? It is the centre of Canberra's industrial area. 
I do not know. All that has been done at the site is that the building has been cleaned up and prepared for the installation of machinery. On 17 May the Minister for the Capital Territory announced the allocation of a margarine quota licence to the Marrickville company. I discovered in the next few days that good old 3 Lithgow Street, Fyshwick, would be the site of the margarine factory. I wonder why the Government will not demand a full inquiry into the activities of all those connected with the granting of this unilateral licence. Why is the Minister being allowed to have his own way? The whole business is the subject of some conjecture as to where we are going. Newspapers and other magazines have all expressed interest in what is really happening. TheCanberra News' of 30 May highlighted a series of conflicting announcements made by the Ministers, Marrickville Holdings Ltd, the manager of that company and the people who are concerned with the purchase of the building. The Bulletin' has made similar comments. 
I have recalled some incredible facts. It is well known that the Minister for the Capital Territory desires to free Australia from the margarine quota system. It is also well known that some of his fellow Ministers, particularly the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  are very hostile because they realise that the decision could lose them votes. Section 92 of the Constitution gives the company immunity. Canberra is well situated to serve the larger New South Wales and Victorian markets and would have to do so because the Australia Capital Territory market is too small to justify setting up a plant just for the production of 300 tons. I believe that the whole business could become a public scandal. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  must be hiding his head inthe sand if he claims to have no knowledge of the matter. The fact that poly-unsaturated table margarine uses a large quantity of imported oils makes a complete mockery of the Australian Labor Party's expressed rural policies, which I believe never really existed. I believe that the Minister for the Capital Territory should be banished from his office. If he is not, the rural people will make sure that his colleagues in rural seats are banished from this Parliament at the next election. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 10.49 p.m. to a date and hour to be fixed by  Mr Speaker  as determined by the resolution of the House. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he studied the submission of the West GippslandLa Trobe Valley Teachers Centre established in Warragul, Victoria. 
If so, does he recognise this body as an essential teacher sponsored activity, designed to assist in perceiving areas of need and the correction thereof. 
Does the work of the Centre coincide with the Government's stated policy or philosophy of identifying and eradicating inequalities in education. 
If so, is he prepared to recognise this Centre by granting financial support to ensure that its potential is fully developed. 
I do not quarrel with those who support this Bill. I say that their arguments are nebulous. Either way human mercy is the important issue. As to hanging or no hanging, rarely does anyone get hanged. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  seemed to derive great satisfaction from recalling the horror, the barbaric and premedi tated action in the carrying out of the death penalty. He made great play on that point but he did not display any real signs of anguish or heartache for the relatives of the murdered victims. He displayed the cold approach of the legal advocate. He saw only the face of the convicted, not the broken hearts of the bereaved. He was pleading his case but not removing the cause. He showed his hatred of the Australian Country Party. I would challenge the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  on his statement that there is no evidence to prove capital punishment is a deterrent. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  carried out a futile exercise of placing great store on human life, but he surely looked at only one side. He did not give credit for the fact that we have avenues of mercy, and I doubt that they have ever been abused. 
I rise to oppose the Bill and to support the circulated amendment. As I gather my thoughts about this gruesome subject and try to find words to justify my stand, I am conscious of my responsibilities to our present society. I have weighed the pros and cons, I have done some soul searching, and I find myself firmly convinced that I still have a responsibility to ensure that our community is protected. I can recall a number of instances where mercy was extended to the convicted killer who got the minimum commuted punishment but escaped from custody to commit another violent crime. Surely in all sincerity it would have been merciful to that person to remove him altogether for his own and the community's benefit. I dare not dwell on the anguish of the relatives of the unnecessary victim. 
In opposing the Bill for the abolition of the death penalty I repeat that I am not motivated by a desire for vengeance. I believe I am exercising a very mature and responsible attitude to one of our very important laws. I firmly believe that the death penalty should be retained for certain premeditated crimes or acts of violence which bring about the death of any citizen, or for the hijacking of a plane again resulting in the death of hostages, or for treason. Why should a person who deliberately endangers the lives of thousands of people not lose his life as a penalty? There should be no mercy for premeditated kidnap killings. Those of you who use the sentimental argument and let emotion be your guide - and I include here the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory - are doing an injustice to the calm, calculated logic of our existing law. The person who breaks the very vital law based on the commandment 'Thou shalt not kill' must be punished. Our laws which have been laid down are based on a very sensitive and sound code. We live in a marvellous age where the conditions of life ought to make us all grateful that we have organised, society for mutual protection. Unfortunately the world is moving more and more into a crisis of violence and so this mutual protection should be one of the great values of our society. Noncompliance with the laws should bring a penalty sufficient to punish the criminal. We have erected a structure which, with all its socalled imperfections, is the very envy of the world. The performance of the judiciary in our British and Australian societies has to comply with the rules. 
Today we are dealing with a measure which says we should dispense with the . maximum penalty for a maximum crime - the death penalty for premeditated murder. Let us take a look at the situation in a case where the law requires the death penalty. There is still the matter of mercy for the Crown to consider. To interpret that, it means that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  who is the highest law officer in the country, not only has all the admissible evidence against the accused but also has all the facts on a file on which to make a reasoned judgment and a recommendation to a responsible group of men in a Cabinet. Here I am giving credibility to an elected govenerment. I have no hesitation in expressing my belief that they, being human as we all are, are predisposed to mercy. Very rarely in all these cases of murder, treason, rape killing, hijacking of aeroplanes and so on have we ever seen the maximum penalty imposed. Surely this indicates that those in responsible positions are capable of exercising sound and merciful judgment. Surely then, when all the avenues of mercy have been exhausted the very small number of murderers must forfeit their right to be members of our society. If they are not removed from this area then the huge percentage who kill, although not with the same degree of criminality, will grow and our country will move more and more into this crisis of violence which is spreading today throughout the world. 
Do not tell me that capital punishment does not act as a deterrent. It is only in extreme cases that I would not hesitate to carry out the maximum penalty. Such a case would be that of anyone who deliberately murders a police officer in 'the execution of his duties. It is on record that the number of murders of police in England has multiplied 5 times since capital punishment was abolished. So I repeat: Surely it must be a deterrent. Surely we have a responsibility to protect our police officers whom we depend upon to protect us. It is my view that those in authority should never show any weakening of the authority they carry, otherwise we will see violent crimes becoming more and more a part of our community. Are we going to allow the human race to be subjected to the law of the jungle where the killer becomes the hero? If we are not strong with theses people, while showing all the mercy at our disposal, more and more people will go on killing others. I rose to oppose the Bill. I have given my reasons. I am firmly convinced that if we do away with the death penalty we will have done away with a deterrent to crime. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the Minister studied the submission referred to him by the Treasurer from the Shire of Warragul to have the Reserve Bank note printing works re-sited at Warragul? Does he agree that the submission contained irrefutable proof that the area offers all necessary opportunities and is the appropriate environmental site for such an industry? Is the Minister prepared to visit Warragul to discuss further this important matter and to satisfy himself on any queries he may have? Will he do so in company with the Reserve Bank directors and the Treasurer? 
I move: 
That the House is of opinion that this Government with the co-operation of the Victorian State Government should appoint a joint Commonwealth/State committee to investigate  the  possibility of the economic and advantageous utilisation of the vast brown coal resources of the Latrobe Valley, for the purpose of producing (a) liquid fuel, (b) solid fuel, (c) synthetic products or (d) any other products of importance to the national interest. 
This is not meant to be a narrow motion, but all evidence points to Victoria being the most appropriate source of coal. Apparently the notice of motion I gave last week has aroused considerable interest. Already a question has been asked in the Victorian Parliament by the Australian Labor Party member for Morwell,  Mr Amos,  of the Minister for Fuel and Power,  Mr Balfour,  as to whether the Victorian Minister had been asked by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to co-operate in joint research on alternative uses for brown coal. I presume that  Mr Amos,  whose State seat is in my Federal electorate of McMillan, does not intend to allow me to get all the credit for having launched this motion on a matter of national importance. I also presume that there has been some collusion between  Mr Amos  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy to ensure that some political mileage will be gained from the issue by the Australian Government. But. I take comfort in the knowledge that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has already endorsed the taking of the action I have proposed should be taken. I refer to a newspaper article in today's Melbourne 'Sun', which reads: 

 Mr Amos had asked if  Mr Balfour  would cooperate with the Federal Minerals and Energy Minister,  Mr Connor,  in joint research on alternative uses for brown coal. 

 Mr Balfour told Mt Amos he had not heard from  Mr Connor,  but would be agreeable to co-operating with him. 

 Mr Balfour's reply must be very heartening to us all. Perhaps I should be satisfied at this point that my motion is to be carried. However, to ensure that members of this House are more enlightened, let me not take for granted that the Minister's generosity is likely to exceed his good looks. 
I appreciate the opportunity I have been given to move this motion and speak to it. I hope that my contribution to the debate will remind this Parliament that the production of oil from coal will provide an all-important alternative fuel. This is an important issue for many reasons. We must all appreciate the great value of the brown coal field to Victoria. It could be of the same value to the whole of Australia. Today I am repeating a hope which has been expressed in parallel terms by enthusiasts who have seen and predicted from time to time a need for Australia to produce its own furnace fuel and fuel for the generation of power and the production of electric light, and to produce hard fuel such as char. Initially these goals all seemed too far away. The ideas were greeted as being over-enthusiastic, as something one dreams about. Some will say: 'Of course it can be done, but it will never be an economic proposition'. What new venture ever was initially an economic proposition? 
That is correct. How important is the production of oil from coal? I say it is of vital importance. That is why I am requesting the Government to set up a joint Commonwealth-State committee to collate all the evidence, ideas, technical knowledge and research experimentation. Many world authorities have warned that liquid fuel supplies are going to be difficult in the years to come. Australia's position is solely dependent on off-shore wells and imports. Production of synthetic oil from brown coal - or any coal for that matter - must represent a new and exciting venture for any Government prepared to pioneer. Success in that venture will provide a new era of job opportunity. 
Let us look at the history of the utilisation of brown coal, using the Latrobe Valley as an illustration. I regret time will not permit me to retrace all the history, nor is it necessary for me to do so. As far back in history as 1852 brown coal was found in a number of places throughout Australia. As the years went by the Latrobe Valley deposits became easily the most impressive. The Victorian Government geologist, James Stirling, told a royal commission on coal in 1891 that he believed the deposits were the largest in the world, and that proved to be correct. The deposits were approximately 56,000 million tons. What a wonderful asset we have. What a wonderful natural resource for Australia it has proved to be and will continue to be. Victoria was dependent on New South Wales black coal until the great maritime strike in 1890 disrupted supplies. Thrown on to our own resources, with very little research having been done until then, we suffered disabilities whilst testing and research were carried out in Germany. Thus the briquette was made. It was well above the quality of anything previously produced. In 1901 Stirling, the State Geologist, visited Germany and found that the use of brown coal was expanding. He saw in his mind a vision of the Latrobe Valley dotted with collieries and factories, nourished and sustained by brown coal, and he urged that Victoria's magnificient beds be exploited. 
I did a lot for it. The honourable member would not even know. 
The honourable member would not even know. 
That is a good speech. I repeat that in 1901 Stirling said he saw a vision of the Latrobe Valley dotted with factories and collieries, nourished and sustained by the brown coal, and he urged that Victoria's magnificent beds be exploited. Nothing was done. It was likened to a huge fortune in chancery waiting for the rightful heirs to the riches. In the 50 years to 1917 by sporadic efforts in various places 120,000 tons of brown coal were won. In the next 50 years Victoria produced more than 300 million tons, an average of 120,000 tons per week. In 1977 production is expected to be 120,000 tons a day. Today, with huge dredges the size of small ships scraping brown coal off the surfaces 200 to 300 ft below ground level, with about 100 ft of soil above, with endless belts running direct to our huge electric power stations, briquette factories and on to rail waggons hauled by electrically powered locomotives, 400,000 tons of coal are won each week. 
I am illustrating how procrastination in research resulted in many difficulties in the years gone by. In this day and age we should not be caught in similar circumstances. Men of vision predicted the use and the need to utilise the coal for what we are now using it. Some of them never saw their scientific views materialise. In 1918 we find a parallel to today's argument. Just as the Bill introduced in the Victorian Parliament at that time to utilise brown coal for the production of of electricity was very vigorously debated as a 'pipe dream', 'uneconomic' and 'a burden on the State', the same would be said of a Bill to set up an authority to produce synthetic oil if it were introduced into this Parliament in this session. However I would confidently predict that the result would be similar by comparison and just as viable as the State Electricity Commission, the briquettes and the char. 
Today I am not requesting a Bill to create an oil producing complex. I am requesting that this Government appoint a joint CommonwealthState Committee to ensure we are fully qualified and informed so that eventually we will be able to set up this industry which today I can visualise as being of vital necessity to the welfare of this nation. I am carrying out a promise I made to my electorate of McMillan, that I would press for the scientific research of the economic production of oil from our coalfields. I could echo the expressions of the supporters of the Government sitting opposite and say, 'I have a mandate from the people to do this'. I am now asking the Government to do this in the interests of the growing population of the Latrobe Valley and the nation as a whole. It is in the interests of Australia to have an alternative fuel should we ever become the victim of aggression from hostile countries. I see it also as one of our greatest provisions for the defence of this country. Perhaps Government members do not realise or subscribe to the view that we need a defence and security measure. In recent times we have seen great new capital works within the brown coal area for the production of electricity. As this is mostly a very sophisticated development, and almost completely automated, the work force is being lowered. With a new process such as I am proposing, we could be working in conjunction with other coal users. I can visualise job opportunity being maintained for the growing population, if we can achieve this result. If the House has any doubts about the quantity of coal available for this project, it may rest assured that what was predicted as being the largest deposit in the world is a proven fact. Australia has many coal deposits. My colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  tells me he would welcome the vast coal areas of his electorate being utilised in the national interest, particularly if employment resulted. 
The Latrobe Valley's brown coal deposit alone is in excess of 56,000 million tons, enough coal to support my proposal. I hope that the Government will see the merit of this motion. The production of oil and synthetic products is supported by a large number of people qualified to give valid reasons for believing in its eventual economic viability. To quote some of the most eminent research and scientific officers, let me first turn to a friend of mine,  Mr Leigh  Kennedy of Morwell, who is the technical manager of Australian Char Pty Ltd.  Mr Kennedy  had the good fortune  to commence his professional career in brown coal research under the direction of the late  Dr Ron  Andrews, who was a very distinguished  Chairman  of the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria. This Corporation manufactured and supplied brown coal gas to Melbourne and suburbs. In 1930  Dr Andrews  was Chief Chemist of the Metropolitan Gas Company. In 1953, in addressing the Fifth Empire Mining and Metallurgical Congress in Melbourne, he said: 
What is to be done in Australia, where all mechanised agriculture, aerial and road transport and industry are entirely dependent upon imported oil? If a large synthetic liquid fuel plant is to be erected here, it must be obvious that the first consideration is cheap coal. The second consideration would demand that abundant coal be present in the area to warrant the necessary expenditure on the project. The Latrobe Valley would be economically and strategically the best coal bearing aTea in Australia for this purpose. 

 Mr Kennedy of Australian Char Pty Ltd in a letter to the 'Australian' in November 1972, had this to say: 
Through the 1930s when he was Chief Chemist of the Metropolitan Gas Company  Dr Andrews  applied himself to the problem of what could be done with brown coal in Victoria. By 19S0 he had conceived three schemes: The first one was to make gas from brown coal, the second to make char, and third idea was to make synthetic liquid fuels (oil) from brown coal. 
The first scheme became a reality in 1956 with the Morwell Lurgi plant which in the years preceding the introduction of natural gas in 1969 played a vital role in supplying gas to Melbourne. 
His second idea for the manufacture of char from briquettes became a commercial reality in 1970 with the commissioning of the Morwell plant of Australian Char Pty Ltd, of which I am the technical manager. 
I predict that the next decade will see oil from coal plants erected in Victoria. 
He says that a singleminded approach achieves results. I would like to say that the motion I moved to have a co-ordinated committee of Commonwealth and State content would produce the point of fact based on the coordinated committee's and scientists' results. The letter continues: 
Recently I attended a fuel symposium in Canberra where I heard the Secretary of the Department of National Development,  Mr L.  F. Bott, talk of the abundance of natural gas in Australia, where he said the need is to encourage the search for oil.  Mr Bott  mentioned the coming shortage of natural gas in the United States and their $120m 4-year program of coal gasification research. He was strangely silent about the multi-million dollar oil from coal research projects which are also being pursued in the U.S. 
The Department of National Development takes the view that Australia has no incentive to turn to oil from coal processes. I disagree. Granted the need for further technical development of the new processes which, the Americans have for making oil from coal, the question is: What will Australia's oil situation be at the end of the decade? 
Oil consumption in Australia is growing at the rate of 6.5 per cent per annum, while the exploration rate for new oil fields is declining in spite of a cumulative $124m paid from 1957 to 1972 under the Commonwealth Petroleum Search Subsidy Act. With the inevitable decline in production of oil from existing fields, Australia will become more dependent upon imported supplies unless more oil is found. 
I believe that the aim of an oil from coal policy should be to establish 100,000 barrels per day plants- 
This would cost approximately $300m:   in the next decade in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland where major coal reserves are favourably located with respect to the centres of oil consumption, but away from the capital cities - a contribution to decentralisation as well. 
The time has come for Australia to begin oil from coal research, so that our options for oil supply will be open at the end of this decade. 
The letter is signed 'G. L. Kennedy'. I think that I could not do more than agree entirely with the points of view of the writer of that article. He has shown a sincerity of purpose and a keen scientific knowledge. I am sure that there are many dedicated persons of similar calibre to  Mr Kennedy  who would welcome the opportunity to put their knowledge to the test. I was interested to read in the Melbourne Age' of 22 September 1973 the report of a speech by a  Mr  Madsen,  who also puts forward the same point of view. As my time has almost expired, I will quote briefly from this Press report. The report states: 
Australia can avoid the energy and oil crisis affecting the United States with long term planning now . . . 
If new oil reserves are not found, Australia will once again become dependent on other countries for oil - joining the queue as one more buyer in the sellers' market. 
The report continues: 

 Mr Madsen said the Government, oil companies and industry had to sit down together and come up with a realistic and practical plan for Australia's energy resources. 
I have much pleasure in supporting this proposition. 
I thank honourable members for the courtesy that they have extended to me. This is a most important subject. I have done considerable research into the matter. I was quoting from a newspaper report of a speech by  Mr Madsen,  the Managing Director of Mobil Oil Australia Ltd. The newspaper report of  Mr Madsen's  speech continues: 
Let us decide now what we are going to require, where, when and how we are going to meet that requirement and who will pay the price. . . . 
We are wrangling over who is going to own, transport or sell the oil. These are side issues. . . . 
I could not agree more. The article continues: 
It would be foolish to say that Australia has nothing to fear from the energy crisis. 
It states further: 
How wisely and productively we spend that time will determine whether or not we too will some day find ourselves caught in the energy crunch. 
Self-sufficiency in crude oil is one of our great needs. Large sums of money have been and are being spent on oil search exploration. We do not seem to have reached the goal by any means. Perhaps the priorities are all wrong. Perhaps we should be spending some of the exploration subsidies in the direction of the development of oil from coal. By the millions of dollars that we are now spending, we are discovering unlimited quantities of natural gas but insufficient quantities of crude oil. If this pattern continues, we will never be self-sufficient in this resource. So, I put it to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor):  What about getting your priorities right? Your exploration money would be well spent in establishing a liquid fuel plant. Might I request of the Minister that he set up this co-ordinating committee and co-operate with the States to ensure that Australia has the protection of sufficient oil. 
I am concerned about the vulnerability of our fuel supplies. As I have previously pointed out, we have no land based fuel production of any sort. We import one-third of our requirements and two-thirds comes from off-shore wells. This is a most vulnerable supply; the Minister must surely agree. All that aside, I see merit in the opportunity to create employment for a growing Latrobe Valley work force. What about taking the opportunity to make decentralisation a reality? To paraphrase the slogan of the Australian Labor Party: It's time to make oil and fuels from brown coal. 
Without the expertise of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  but also with a grievance, I rise to bring to the notice of this House my concern at the procrastination taking place and the lack of response to the many important matters and requests I have raised on behalf of my electors. This Government came to power nearly 12 months ago with all the enthusiasm and glory of newfound power and boasting of what we could expect in the years ahead. Optimism was so high that Government supporters even talked about what they would do as a government after the next election. They having now settled down to the realities of life and having learned the arduous responsibilities of government, we do not hear them any longer talking about what they will do as a future government; instead we see them retreating to their foxholes and sniping at the members of the Opposition with snide remarks about election funds being collected to get them out of office, as they say. At the first fair dinkum challenge by the Australian Country Party to go to the electors, Government supporters scuttled for cover and have been whimpering about it ever since. 
I want to know when we can really expect some action by some of the more romantic Ministers. I have yet to see any tangible evidence of any decisions by several Ministers who have been requested by responsible people in my electorate to carry out the lavish pre-election promises. Let me quote some of the concerns I have in order to illustrate to this Parliament how insincere those Ministers are. Let me take the deceitful boast of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  He thought that he would be the Minister for Primary Industry; so he quite unabashedly promised the primary producers of Australia $500m in long term finance at 3 per cent per annum interest. I have not seen any of it yet, and interest rates have gone up, not down. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and all his henchmen made great play to the electorate and local municipalities by saying that there would be direct grants to local government. What a . marvellous thought! But what has happened? On behalf of many municipalities in my electorate I have made numerous requests to the Prime Minister; but, being the good fencer that he is, he has directed the grants under the Grants Commission through various other Ministers. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  cannot move until he has his regions all worked out; the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  is tying up any decisions he may make with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development; and so it goes on. 
But there is one Minister who does things in his own way, unhindered and probably aided and abetted by other Ministers in a more subtle way. The Minister to whom I refer is the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who has taken all the minerals with all the energy he can muster and decided to nationalise them. He showed great strength and energy in trying to belittle my efforts to get on with the job of producing oil from brown coal. I will not repeat to this House how importantly I view the need to do just that. I have yet to hear whether the Minister has taken any action to carry out the terms of my motion which was passed by this House. Perhaps he is too busy laying traps to catch other unsuspecting mineral enterprise companies. Even the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has not been able to assist my local shire to secure a very appropriate industry. All Ministers are duckshoving their responsibilities. 
Many of the proposals of the Government are very commendable. One in particular is in the field of environment and conservation. But it appals me to see the procrastination in this area. State governments have at last placed great emphasis on this field and are awaiting th support of the Federal Government to help them get on with the job. One area which has been proclaimed as suitable for a national park is the Mount Worth area in the Strzelecki Ranges which has everything to commend it economically, environmentally and conservationally. If the Minister can at least assure me that he will give this project his immediate and earnest consideration, I can assure him that he would retrieve some of the image which he has lost by his procrastination. The property owners who are suffering a financial handicap by the interim development order would appreciate his immediate action. The shire councils involved are embarrassed by the present situation in which their ratepayers find themselves. No one knows when action is to be taken and therefore the proposed sale of the properties is devalued or Sales cannot be made. 
This area of country requires constant attention, otherwise it reverts back to its natural foliage. This again lowers the value of the land and therefore it creates great potential for a national park. In the interests of the people who own this country and who are dependent on receiving a reasonable acquisition price I request that some action be taken urgently and that an immediate decision be made one way or the other. It is totally unfair to starve these people out, but this is what will happen if positive action is not taken now. Not only am I promoting the plight of the resident, but I am also hoping to preserve one of our most natural beauty areas in Gippsland. The scenic views from the tourist point of view offer great attraction. Add to that the conservation of the most magnificent flora and fauna. 
This area is another marvel of nature. It is within pleasant driving distance from the metropolis and for that reason it should demand the support of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  whose constituents would be among the tourists who would benefit. As I said, priorities must be established, economics effected and immediate action taken. If it is taken much of the beautiful timber will be saved from being ravaged. A feasibility study has been made. It is supported by our field naturalists and our conservationists and the property owners. Many said that they would co-operate - some of them were very reluctant because of their love to be up among the scenic beauty where they have made their homes. These are the people of whom we must think. They will have to be re-established. If the Government starves them out by procrastination, then I will be forced to highlight this indictment of the Government. I appeal to the Minister to give this matter his earnest attention and to show his sincerity in his portfolio. 
Tonight I want to raise again my voice in protest at the procrastination of Ministers of this Government. Earlier today I raised several instances of this procrastination. I now want to raise another matter which is of great importance. I remind the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that the Shire of Warragul is still awaiting their decision on the very important project which has been Submtted to them in a thoroughly documented form. This project is without doubt a most appropriate industry which would be compatible with the serene environment of the Shire of Warragul. All feasibility studies have been successfully documented. The Treasurer has studied and applauded them. He was hosted by the Shire of Warragul and the whole program was shown to him. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was co-opted to give his support. He has not yet made any report as to whether he is in favour of this development. 
Today I received the report of the regional layout for the State of Victoria, in which I find that the shire of Warragul is in the Latrobe Valley area. If this is so, this project is still within the same regional development area in which it was proposed to be and which the shire of Warragul has spent much time and effort in trying to bring to fruition. The shire of Warragul also entertained officials of the Reserve Bank, which is the industry that we are trying to attract to the area. Those officials have investigated the whole plant and found that there is not one portion of the industry which cannot be located and operated successfully in the area. I point out that 1,200 acres of residential land has been set aside. The water supply is adequate. All facilities are adequate. The shire of Warragul would appreciate a reply from the Treasurer or the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in order to see whether it will be successful in having 800 extra people working in its environs. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In the light of today's announcement by the Director of the National Gallery that the painter of the work 'Blue Poles' desires to repurchase the painting will the Prime Minister consider reselling it? Does the Prime Minister agree that the extra $100,000 to $200,000 which the painter is prepared to pay above the original price of $1.3m, making a total sale price $l.Sm, could be more effectively used in promoting works by Australian artists? In the light of this latest, and certainly fortunate, offer I ask why the Government wishes to retain this foreign painting of accidental value. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour. What attention has the Minister given to the serious situation developing throughout Victoria and the repercussions around Australia caused by the striking electrical trades workers of the Latrobe Valley in Victoria? Is he aware that these men have been out of work now for 5 weeks, without any intervention by the Minister? Is he aware of the unsuccessful attempt by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  who recognised the dispute to be one of national importance, to bring about a settlement? What responsible action does the Minister propose he should take to settle this dispute to the satisfaction of the electrical trades workers and all other workers now unemployed as a result of the strike. In view of my grave concern for the affected workers, which I have expressed to them by way of offering to meet them, and my offer having been accepted- 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I thought I was doing reasonably well in explaining why I wished to have the Standing Orders suspended. I believe that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  failed to give me the answer to a question which he said he would provide in the statement that he made. He has not answered the question as to whether he would accompany me or invite- 
I think this time could well have been saved if the Minister had given me an opportunity to make a short statement. 
Mir HEWSON- The reason why I moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders was to raise a matter of grave importance. Many side isues have been brought into this by the Minister for Labour. When II asked for leave to make a short statement in reply, leave was refused. I am compelled to move for the suspension of the Standing Orders in order that I might get the opportunity to debate this question. This is a very serious question. The Minister for Labour made certain accusations against the Victorian Government which were quite untrue and without foundation. My concern for the people in the Latrobe Valley area is quite evident by the fact that I volunteered to act as a negotiator in the dispute that has occurred there. I feel that my concern is justified and that my request for the suspension of the Standing Orders so that I may debate this issue should be upheld. I hope that I will get the opportunity to debate this matter. There are many things about which I could speak if the motion to suspend Standing Orders is carried. I think that the Government has failed in its duty to recognise the damage that is caused to Australia 
May I change to the other foot,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
 I repeat that it is a grave matter that we are discussing. I have asked the Minister to accompany me. He has said that he is going to call a conference of all unions, but he has not indicated to me that he will be calling the La Trobe Valley people together. He has not invited me to go with him. I want an answer to all these important matters. I think my reason for asking for the suspension of Standing Orders on this occasion is quite justified. I take it that I can make points to show why I want the Standing Orders suspended. One of the points is that I would offer my services to the Minister for Labour. 
I am making my point. 
That is quite right. I could have made a much shorter and much more effective speech if I had been allowed to make a statement. However, the time at my disposal on this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is fast drawing to a close, and in the remaining time allotted to me I want to say as much as I can to make the point that I am endeavouring to outline. Some of my submissions have been ruled out of order as being irrelevant, and I have been accused of wasting the time of the House and not explaining anything to the House. As I have said, this dispute has been going on for 5 weeks, and I have not yet seen any intervention by the Minister for Labour. I request him to intervene because of the failure of the leader of the ACTU to negotiate - 
I fail to see how the Government, having refused the Victorian Premier's offer to have a conference on the matter, can hold up its head in respect of this matter. The Minister's refusal to con ciliate with the Premier of Victoria and to talk with the men of the La Trobe Valley involved in this dispute is, I consider, a very good reason why the Standing Orders should be suspended to allow this matter to be discussed. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I want to place on record my very grave concern at what this Government is allowing to happen in Victoria and the consequential hardships being experienced by the population because of the Government's inability to bring about a settlement of the strike by the electrical trades workers employed by the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has failed to reassure me that he has any real concern for the people he so proudly boasts that he and his Government represent. This strike - one of many being allowed to drift on; or perhaps it is inspired by Labor Party supporters - illustrates the insincerity of the Government which refuses leave to honourable members to talk about such problems in this House. I have yet to hear the Minister for Labour accept my invitation to come to the Latrobe Valley to talk to the electrical trades workers or to listen to their side of the case. Industrial turmoil is tearing at the heart of the nation's industrial, commercial and community life.  Mr Bob  Hawke, the man who wears or attempts to wear 2 hats, one as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other as  President  of the Australian Labor Party, recognises the dispute as being one of national importance. But he has failed absolutely to help the situation. The men rejected his terms. He did not go along himself to hear their case; he sent someone else to do it, so he got the information second hand. 
I ask the Government: Is it insensitive to the loss of $9m in wages over the last 2 weeks as a result of power rationing in factories? This is almost the figure for the whole of last year. What will the total figure be for the whole of this year when we achieve that figure in only 2 weeks? I believe there is a very fundamental reason why the electrical trades workers cannot accept the present offer. It could well be that a previous award introduced to cover the creation of a new classification has upset relativity payments and created a chain reaction of entitlement. 
There are many points in favour of a round table discussion to which I have invited the Minister for Labour.  His  lack of interest causes me concern because I am now faced with the grim reality of seeing hundreds of people affected by this strike of over 5 weeks duration. I see the looks of despair on honest men's faces as they stand by the principles they hold dear. I hope these desperate men are not being misled by their union leaders. It seems incredible if they are, so I am assuming until I am satisfied further that the State Electricity Commission and its employees are deadlocked. No one from the Minister's Department or the Minister himself has bothered to stir himself to try to solve this serious matter. 
I was amazed to hear the Minister for Labour say that the Victorian Liberal Government was standing over the State Electricity Commission administration to create the impression to the public that the Federal Government was incapable of handling such a situation. What a ridiculous statement. It does not take any action by the Victorian Government to highlight the fact that this Federal Government is an incompetent, irresponsible and" incapable Government. It is all very well to blame the Victorian Government when this Government gives great credence to the role of the great arbitrator,  Mr Bob  Hawke. He waited until he thought the men would surrender and then he stepped in and delivered his ultimatum, hoping that he would join the ranks of 'I am the greatest'. But he was rebuffed. So, with complete abandonment, he trips overseas and lets this situation deteriorate. 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  I am not prepared to let the matter rest there. I hope to enthuse enough responsibility into the Minister for Labour to see him accept my invitation. But I personally have grave doubts because of his performance to date. In fact, his nation-wide broadcast, stating that he is preparing for a national conference as soon as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions leaves the country, indicates to me that he is prepared to prance around and make great clarion calls for industrial peace. He is another who wants to be 'the greatest'. But he is not prepared to take individual strike issues of an unusual nature and get down to a face to face, nitty gritty decision. It may upset his national image to descend to more material and realistic practicalities of industrial problems. Is the Minister sincere when he talks about this great national conference on industrial matters and in his great praise of the conciliation and arbitration system which he says should operate similarly and which would do so if he were prepared to make it do so. 
As I have said, it is all very well to put over to the strikers the story that their plight can be blamed on the Victorian Government. But that is purely a smokescreen for this Government's failure to ensure that the conciliation and arbitration system works. If union leaders are irresponsible enough to flout genuine decisions, then I would sack them. I would sack them if they perpetuated a strike to the detriment of the workers whom they are highly paid to protect. I also would stop the union leaders' pay for the duration of the strike. I am sure that if union leaders' pockets were as empty as the workers' pockets are whenever a strike occurs there would be fewer strikes. So let me assume that the union leaders in this strike do not fall into that category. As I have stated, people are concerned. I am concerned. I must assume, because of what I see around me, that this Government and the Minister have no sympathy for the children, the wives and the workers. I share with all the families affected by the strike all the desires for a settlement as quickly as possible. I am appalled by the shallow political motives which point by innuendo to the State Government as the arch villain. This Australian Labor Party Government, for the basest of reasons, stands idly by while mothers are forced to give cold meals to their childen and to put them to bed in the dark with no warmth on cold nights because of power restrictions. 
Where is the age of industrial reasonableness which the Minister promised? Where is his sense of compassion? The answer is that there is no reasonableness or compassion in this Minister for Labour.  His  sense of responsibility lies in the gutter in-fights of Labor policy making, where he performs so well to the detriment of the nation as a whole.  His  false and mocking television image stands naked. It is an image fuelled on egotism but never on responsibility. The strike to which I refer is now in its sixth week. It has gone beyond the normal avenues for settlement. In all conscience, I appeal to the Minister to reject his Utopia of national conferences and to be a man and come among men. 
Last week in this House the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in reply to my question on the controversial painting "Blue Poles', reported to have been purchased by his Government at a cost to the Australian taxpayers of $1.3m, indicated that the Government intended to continue with this irresponsible purchase. I note that he has done exactly that, despite the desperate bid in another place by an honourable gentleman, who was Wright by both name and intention, to delete a similar amount of money from the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973. When one considers that out of an allocation of $2m only $700,000 is left for the acquisition and conservation of the national estate, the Prime Minister's action is irresponsible. The honourable gentleman used as his rationale the hypothetical supposition that the painting will continue to appreciate in value. Might I say that he appears to be one of the few people in Australia currently holding that opinion. In his usual loquacious manner the Prime Minister quite flippantly joked away this blatant misuse of $1.3m of taxpayers' money and now he has the audacity to tell this House that this valuable painting will appear on the Whitlam Christmas cards. This will make it so common that if it had any curiosity value that too will be gone. Unfortunately I cannot let this wanton waste pass so lightly. I have a very obvious duty to my electorate of McMillan. 
Mouse adjourned at 11 p.m. 
I must draw the attention of the House and, indeed, the attention of the Australian public to what must be one of the most incredible decisions yet made by this incredible Government. The matter is the Commonwealth free milk scheme. The previous Government, alert to the importance of this well tried scheme, renewed and extended its operation until 1980. Now, this Government in a decision based apparently completely on economic grounds, intends drastically to modify the scheme from 1 January 1974. Clearly this Government has taken such a sweeping decision without regard to the health and well being of Australia's young school children. 
The modified scheme, as it will operate from 1 January, means that free milk will be provided only for children attending specified schools. These schools will be selected on a needs basis to be decided by State health authorities. For instance, in my home State of Victoria, this new scheme will save somewhere in the region of $3m annually. But can such a saving and such a blatant attack on the health and well being of school children be considered in entirely monetary terms? Can a government experiencing such difficulties in managing Australia's economy blatantly say: OK, let us slash a few million dollars off the milk scheme', thus leaving hundreds of thousands of Australian school children without the nutritional value that time has proved so important to their mental and physical development? 
Of course, the tragedy of this scheme is that it will hit country areas in 2 ways. Firstly, it is apparent that State health authorities will have to follow the reasoning that country children with their economic standard and possibly greater access to protein from milk than, say, children in densely populated inner city areas will be the first to be able to forego the milk. This is a rationale forced on State authorities by the necessity of the Government's clamp down. Secondly, country dairy producers will immediately lose what has become an important part of the dairying industry's economy. No one would suggest that the scheme was financed by the Commonwealth for the benefit of the dairying industry. Nevertheless it does play an important part in the industry's long term economy. For instance, ready availability of school milk in some areas has played an important part in helping the child acquire a taste for and an appreciation of the value of milk in later life. 
I draw the attention of the House to a report on this devastating decision of the Government, by one of the world's foremost dairying industry experts, M:: G. Loftus-Hills, who, until recently, was chief of the Division of Dairy Research at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The report reads: 
The statistics on national food consumption show only marginal changes since 1948 when nutritionists in a national survey regarded school milk as a tremendously important aid to good national nutrition. Since then several surveys have indeed been carried out on nutritional levels in schools and these all show the continuing need for school milk. 
The generally poor knowledge of nutrition in the community, the persistent commercial pressures to buy food products of relatively poor nutritional value, the common absence of both parents at work, and the increasing tendency to let the child choose foi itself, all point to the fact that even in our affluent society such a positive and pertinent step as the provision of school milk is essential if good nutrition of the young is to be assured. 
I turn to the Coombs report. The section of the Coombs report on which the Budget decision is based shows a frightening absence of facts. The relevant extract is as follows: 
There is substantial agreement among health authorities that continuation of the scheme cannot be justified on purely nutritional grounds and there are expert views to the effect that any benefits to the diet from a free milk scheme are likely to be minimal beyond the age of seven, even at ages up to and including 7 years of age, its general usefulness has been questioned on the basis of current income  levels and on the grounds that adequate nutrition can be provided for children from other sources. 
The facts are that whatever  Dr Coombs  says can be done is not being done. I quote from an authoritative opinion on nutrition, with supporting evidence of school surveys, which flatly contradicts  Dr Coombs  statements. It reads: 
The Coombs report seeks additional justification for its recommendations by pointing out that the school milk system was discontinued in the UK in 1970. The report does not mention the severe criticism of that decision by nutritionists. In 'New Scientist', July 1971  Dr George  Lynch and  Dr Sylvia  de la Paz of the Social Nutrition Research Unit at Queen Elizabeth College, London, report that their survey of 4,000 children showed a significant proportion malnourished and many more relying on school meals and free milk to make a poor diet adequate. In accompanying editorial comment the 'New Scientist' says 'But the decision to withdraw free school milk for 7 to 11-year-olds in Britain is an outrageous sacrifice of straightforward fact and, more importantly, children's health, to what looks like a simple but vicious principle of penny pinching*. 
That is something at which this Government is good. The question could well be asked: What facts are available in Australia? In 1963 the New South Wales Department of Health carried out surveys of the daily diets of 1,000 ten-year-olds, and followed this in 1965 with a study of food eaten at school by 3,900 ten to twelve year olds in all socio-economic groups. In its conclusions, the report states: 
School milk was shown to be important in providing protein which would otherwise be deficient in the diets of many children, particularly those from less affluent homes. It should continue to be made available and children encouraged to drink it regularly. 
I think that the honourable member for Blaxland probably has lacked a little milk in his diet. That virtually is the detailed report in full by  Mr Loftus-Hills.  We on this side of the House are well aware that in its short term of office, this Government has been eroding the benefits and standards of rural life and industry so carefully guarded by the Australian Country Party and past governments since Federation. Just how serious this Government's attack on primary industry has been in so short a time is illustrated by a statement by prominent Australian  Sir Norman  Giles,  chairman  of Elder Smith-Goldsborough Mort Ltd, a firm favourite, I understand, with the Australian Labor Party. He observed in South Australia last week that Australia has been built on the foundations of its rural industries. He said: 
Apparently these industries are to be rewarded now by the greatest financial attack on them by any government in our history. 
I ask that this Government again carefully consider the implications of such drastic legislation in the light of the mounting mass of expert opinion that says school milk supplies should continue. If Government supporters in this House do not have the courage of their convictions to reject legislation proposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  I hope that men of conviction in another place will take more appropriate action. 
It would appear to be a true saying that 2 great minds think alike. I assure the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who is at the table, that it is purely coincidental that 2 concerned Australians - the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and myself - should select the same subject on which to speak on the same night during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. Because of a series of events which are taking place or which have taken place, Australia today faces one of its blackest periods for its armed forces in peace time. It is one of the blackest periods because our Minister for Defence has decreed more and more defence cutbacks which sap our military strength and imperil the security of every Australian. In answer to a question today he added his name to the ever-increasing list of those who say: T am the greatest'. Never before in Australia's history has a Minister taken action which openly invites a potential aggressor to attack this country. Our defence effort has been cut back savagely. This indicates that the Minister cannot win an argument in Cabinet against his socialist mates, let alone one with his own conscience. 
In the election campaign last year the Minister promised, as did all other Australian Labor Party candidates, that a Labor government would spend 3.4 per cent of the gross national product on defence. In its first Budget, this Labor Government has reduced that figure to 2.9 per cent and has proved conclusively that this Labor Government and this super whiz kid ALP Minister cannot keep their promises when it comes to defence, let alone keep their principles regarding Australia having an effective defence force. Just recently the Minister announced another round of defence cut-backs. All these cut-backs in general will reduce the operational effectiveness of the armed forces. Let me remind the people of Australia of some of these cut-backs. 
First of all, there has been a 35 per cent reduction in the Army strength and a 10 per cent reduction in the defence civilian staff. The Government has disbanded one Mirage squadron and has cannibalised 15 other Mirage aircraft for spare parts. The Government has reduced flying hours for Army, Navy and Air Force aircraft. It has put the Fill crews into mothballs. It has cancelled the Cockburn Sound, the DDL and the aircraft procurement programs at a time when the number of Russian vessels patrolling the Indian Ocean has increased. What about our oil and gas wells on the north west shelf? This Minister and this socialist Government apparently do not take into account the vulnerability of our vital fuel resources. We must not forget the Bass Strait oil wells and the pipelines that come from them. Surely it should be obvious that instead of reducing our defences, we should be strengthening them to protect our vital resources. The Government has ordered a reduction of 20 per cent in the steaming time for the Navy. It will probably be more like 50 per cent when we have taken into account the fuel oil costs and other problems. The Government has abolished vital armed Services units, such as the air field construction squadron, and has reduced numbers of other vital units, such as Army surveys and medical units together with the intake of trainees. Let us face it: Who would want to go into training with the future operations so uncertain? This paints a pretty deplorable picture, particularly for those of us who place the protection of our Australian society on a very high priority. 
These cut-backs are shameful. In fact, they could be more aptly described as disgraceful. They should not have occurred. The cut-backs will further destroy Service morale and will strip this country - this nation which we all hold so dear - of its military strength. It belittles us in the eyes of the world. But, of course this Government could not care less. In fact it is probably part of the Governments plan to submit quietly to the outside philosophies often enunciated in this chamber. Everything possible has been done by this Government to estrange us from our former allies - from friends in time of need. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  refers to 'open government'. I say: 'Open season on Australians'. 
How could the Defence Minister boast that he identifies himself with the Australian fighting man when he has proved himself to be the greatest .sham fighter of all time? At times I have believed that this Minister is sincere. If he is, can he tell me why he has allowed these cuts to take place when one considers what he promised and what he said even shortly after he became the  Deputy  Prime Minister? If he has a streak of sincerity left in him, there is no alternative for him but to resign his portfolio, and in doing so, draw the attention of all Australians to what has happened to defence. If he made his promises to the electorate in any sincerity, he has no option. It is a coward's excuse to justify these cutbacks on the ground that a strategic study shows that Australia faces no defence threat. That study was not even prepared by his own Department. It was foisted on him by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister. 
Talk of no possibility of aggression in the foreseeable future reminds me of  Mr Chamberlain  and his umbrella when, in 1939, he visited Hitler in Germany and was assured that there was no threat to the defences of Britain.  His  own strategists within his Department do not agree with this study. Recent international events have proved its fallibility. This Minister has no choice. He has allowed the country to retreat into the field of defence isolationism and combat sterility, let alone operational impotence. The cutbacks do not take into account many important issues. For instance, how does our expected fighting force learn weapon technology? In the recent Middle East outbreak of hostilities we saw a completely incompetent comprehension of the development of the surface to air missile. We saw an enormous amount of weaponry and mobile armament battered into submission because of a lack of understanding. This is what happens when men are not trained to use the weapons. 
Training in these fields is more necessary than this Government believes. The energy crisis resulting from the Middle East activities could spark off a world involvement. Anybody who stops to take a look at the situation would see that. Australia faces unforeseen or hidden potential dangers within the Indian and Pacific Oceans that surround us. It is true to say that Australia is one of the largest islands in the world and is vulnerable along a great area of her coastline. We have oil wells on the northwest shelf. I heard someone mention the morale of our defence personnel? It is stated in the Canberra Times' today that during the 3 months ended 31 October 85 commissioned officers left or applied to leave the armed forces. In the same period last year, 27 officers resigned. Is this showing confidence and complete faith in the future of those in charge of our military forces?  Mr Speaker,  I ask you that question. 
After being threatened for months with the introduction of a national health scheme we now have before us 2 Bills, namely, the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973 and the Health Insurance Bill 1973, which we are considering in a cognate debate. Both are machinery measures for the Utopia of Hayden and they precede several other Bills which we are told will arrive during the Autumn session. If ever we have seen a piecemeal approach *o such a complete change of medical, hospital and health services we have seen it with the introduction of portion of the scheme in the form of these 2 Bills. The rest will come in the autumn and then, of course, will follow the winter when the trees will be bare of their leaves but the trunks and limbs will be there for all to see. This is a shallow piece of socialist legislation designed to build a monolithic monster which will cost the taxpayers of this nation considerably more than the present scheme and not give them the service that they have been accustomed to getting from the present scheme. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  on his magnificent contribution to the debate in support of the amendment so capably and concisely explained by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  The list of people and organisations completely opposed to the whole concept of Labor's scheme is long and impressive, comprising State governments, a wide range of medical organisations and highly qualified doctors, the hospital and medical voluntary insurances funds, the national working party of the Catholic hospitals, the private and community hospitals, the private nursing homes, nurses, organisations representing country medical staffs, and the boards of management of many public hospitals. This information was amongst overwhelming evidence made available to the Country Party committee that carried out a very deep study of these matters. Those of us who have been associated with hospitals and insurance funds know only too well that administrative costs are best controlled and kept to a minimum by the participation of the community as members of boards of management or directors of contributory funds. They are the medium through which the rest of the community is encouraged to take an interest in the institution in its locality. This creates a very human service which in turn creates a sense of shared ownership in the rest of the community. This scheme will render all to a computer number. 
Having had 15 years experience as an executive member of the Board of Management of the West Gippsland Base Hospital, I believe that I am competent to assess some of the frailties of this Hayden scheme. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has not mentioned what effect this plan will have on the capital expenditure for the necessary expansion of hospitals. Another point to be considered is: What provision has been made to cover the payments to the hospital for repatriation patients, workers' compensation cases, wards of State, and so on, and what time would elapse before payments would be made? We all believe that there should be adequate and equal opportunity for all people but it will not be found in the promulgation of this socialist legislation. 
The Country Party carried out, as did the Liberal Party, a very deep and comprehensive study of what was being advocated by the Minister for Social Security. We could never really get the true story of what this professed socialist proposed to put to this Parliament. Eventually he did us the courtesy of presenting a White Paper to the Parliament. It was aptly named because it told a number of white lies. I got sick of reading the slanted and misleading explanations. In fact, I found difficulty in assessing its true content. It was inaccurate and presumptuous, a figment of the imagination. It could rightly be termed 'Hayden's Utopia'. Our committee, led by the member for Indi and comprising the member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  the member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  the member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  the member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  and me, realised at the outset that the pro-Hayden Press would paint the Opposition as being merely obstructive and negative, so we set about doing a constructive evaluation. As a committee, we found very little support - and certainly of little consequence - for a national health scheme as an alternative to the present successful scheme. When updated by the proposed amendment, which members on this side of the House are supporting, the present scheme will be without doubt the best in the world. 
The Country Party is firmly opposed to the proposed national health scheme as an alternative scheme. We support an extension of the existing scheme to cover areas of weakness. The 3 main areas of weakness are pensioners, low income groups, and para-medical services. We would support a proposal of temporary insurance for those who are unavoidably uninsured, justified on welfare grounds. If we strengthen the existing scheme in this way and come to an agreement with doctors on cost predictability, the Australian system of health care will be the best in the world. I believe that doctors should now be prepared, particularly in view of the successful outcome of the recent tribunal hearing, to consider seriously the establishment of a fairly and properly structured standing tribunal to keep the enormous list of over 4,000 medical services under permanent review, for the purpose of setting benefit levels. The recent decision handed down by the Medical Fees Tribunal broadly supports the fee levels of the doctors and indicates that there has been unfair and untruthful maligning of the profession by people inside and outside the Parliament who have a vested interest in inflicting on Australia the depressing hand of a socialist society. 
I oppose Labor's scheme on several other grounds. Country Party opinion is that in country areas the workload of doctors will become unbearable and that country people will have less chance of their own doctor treating them in the local hospital. This is because the doctor will be employed by the hospital and not by the patient. Only doctors receiving salary from the hospital will be given access to that particular hospital. With more centralisation in Canberra, the local hospital board which to date has run the hospital efficiently will have less influence on the management and development of the local hospital. I have already explained to the House the benefits of having a local community board of management, with the interests of the local people, who contribute to make the hospital something of purpose in their area. 
The present position with regard to hospital and medical insurance is that only 3.6 per cent of the population have no formal hospital cover, and 6.3 per cent have no medical cover.  Mr Hayden's  scheme will be able to cover significantly less people for many years. According to the Deeble report, it is expected that 20 per cent will not be covered. The fact that a levy is paid does not mean a social security card will be automatically issued. Several groups, including families in which the wife works, will pay more for a service that will not be as good as the present scheme. At present, 80 per cent of people insured for hospital cover opt for intermediate ward or private ward accommodation. The Minister is providing public ward accommodation. 
I agree with the honourable member for Indi that it is difficult to see how this scheme will bc cheaper for seven out of 10 single people. I do not think it will be cheaper for any single people. For example, if a man earns $120 a week gross the present rate is 52c, whereas the new levy will be $1.15. If he earns $70 a week gross, the present levy is 62c, with the new levy being 88c. So how can it be cheaper for seven out of 10 single people? How can it be cheaper for families? In the case of a married couple with 2 children with only the husband working, if the gross weekly income is $120, under the present scheme the rate is 52c, whereas under the new scheme it will be $1.52. Working married couples with no children who earn $120 a week contribute under the present scheme $1.08, with the rate for the new scheme being $2.20. The position of a working married couple with 2 children would be somewhat similar, with the new contribution of $2.08 comparing with the present contribution of $1.08. For preferred accommodation for a married couple with 2 children, with only the husband working and receiving $120 a week, at present the contribution is $1.44 and the new contribution will be $2. How dare the Minister stand up and deny the truth in this respect. 
I think that we have demonstrated quite capably this evening that this scheme ought not be considered but ought to be thrown out. The Country Party committee, in the same way as the Nimmo Committee in 1969, found that there was no support at all for the often expressed view that the number of different organisations adds to the cost of the scheme. We examined the operations of a large number of friendly societies and closed funds and found that their service to contributors was extremely good and that they had been most successful organisations in keeping management expenses within proper limits. Have honourable members ever seen a bureaucratic body- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! If the honourable member for Indi wishes to conduct a debate in this chamber, I would suggest that he get to his feet and do so in the proper manner. If he does not remain silent - and since he has been in the chamber- 
I ask a question of the Minister for Health. It concerns the statement he made this week that the States have failed to show specific areas of need that would justify the continuation of the distribution of free milk to all Australian school children. I ask: Who or what committee made that decision? Was the decision weighed against the opinion of world nutritionists who have brought down the decision, based on research, that milk is the best supplier of protein which developed the child best, both mentally and physically? Did the Minister completely disregard this advantage to the nation? Will he agree that, in addition to that fact, it is also of advantage to the nation to encourage the use and production of the health food of the nation? 
Can the Minister for Immigration reconcile his policy of an increased migrant intake in the next financial period with the published opinions of his colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation that Australia must limit its population growth? Is it a fact that the present policies of the Minister for Immigration are helping to exert extreme pressures on the environment, as stated by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation in an extensive paper published recently in the national Press under the heading 'Staunch the Migrant Flow'? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have the responsibility to represent an electorate which has in it a number of trade unions. 
Your figures do not add up correctly, because if you add 10 to 16 you get 26. A gain of 10 per cent in 16 months is a pretty fair gain. However, as I was saying, it is my privilege to represent an electorate which has in it a number of trade unions and a varying number of industries and occupations. Whilst it may be theoretically convenient to limit the number of unions by amalgamation, it is not desirable to interfere with the rights of individuals who responsibly establish organisations and unions so that matters pertaining to their occupation or interest can be considered. 
As a member of the Opposition, I view the Bill now before the House as an infringement on the rights of individuals and dangerous to the members of unions. My observation is that many industrial disputes arise because there are too many classifications within an occupation or industry. This will not be cured by the Bill before the House which recommends the amalgamation of unions. Let us have a look at amalgamation. Suppose all unions wish to amalgamate. Can anyone tell me how this can be done? How can a variety of interests be amalgamated into one union with one voice? It is not possible. 
I have heard of lots of things, but they do not always ring true. Many years ago the same sentiments and ideals were promoted within the primary industry. Because of the diversity of interests and people's Individual talents it is not possible to have one union for a group of individuals or a group of varying occupations. However it is possible to have affiliation of unions and affiliation of ideas too. The difficulty can be overcome by affiliation. This would leave only one autonomous organisation to represent each occupation or industry and to put its case and point of view. It then emerges that if the body of affiliated unions reaches a decision it carries sufficient authority to speak on behalf of its individual members, having first obtained their consent. 
The procedures which are advocated in the Bill could apply equally as well to affiliation as to amalgamation. I am amazed at the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  promoting the establishment of a monster which could become an embarrassment to the Government. Of course the Government has plenty of embarrassments. Goodness only knows, it is embarrassed often enough now by its own trade unions and their masters. I suppose what the Minister really wants is what he said in this statement: 
We should have fewer of them. 
On reflection, I suppose one monster would be preferable to numerous bosses. After all, this Government is in the hands of the unions - and there are so many of them, all making so many demands and always in conflict. 
I believe in unions, but I would offer them something better than the proposals in the Bill. I would pursue policies that support the system of negotiation, conciliation and arbitration as provided for in an Act which is already operating and maintain the many proper protections of employees and employers provided by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because I believe that voluntary agreement encourages closer communication between employee and employer. I recognise the right of an employee to withdraw his labour in an industrial dispute as a last resort so long as the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been complied with. After all, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act contains provisions to safeguard the public interest. Industrial agreements freely entered into and awards should be observed by all involved. Th law must support that observance. 
In pursuing this matter of amalgamation further, I am intrigued by the statement by the Minister that 'before an amalgamation can be finally registered there will need to be a ballot of all members of both organisations, or, if there are more than 2 organisations, of all the organisations involved; but it will not be necessary to hold up an amalgamation merely because less than 50 per cent of the members eligible to vote fail to do so'. How many standards do we have? In other words, the poor Industrial Registrar is charged with the responsibility of bringing about an amalgamation under the rules but if the rules are inconvenient he is charged with bringing about an amalgamation anyway. It is the most ragtime approach to a very important issue that I have ever encountered. 
I believe that the Minister should concern himself not with the amalgamation of unions but with the welfare of unionists. He should have a good look at their domestic problems and, as I have said earlier, have a look at the great range of classifications in each category of occupation with a view to eliminating this festering sore which is now very evident in the trade union movement. Today a variation to an award, for instance in the electrical trades, sparks off a chain reaction of demands by the dozens of qualifications listed in that trade. If there were fewer classifications, there would be less jealousy, less opportunity for irresponsible threats of strikes and better opportunities for negotiation. Many union leaders today make unreasonable demands for wage increases in the belief that they can extort what they want. They brush aside the realities of inflation and the possibility of inflation leading to the creation of unemployment by taking arrogant decisions not to grant any options. This illustrates a destructive foolishness. We have to put a stop to this contempt for our traditional ways. Industrial disputes should be open reasonable, negotiations. The Minister for Labor and Immigration should enforce the principles of rank and file control of oganisations through the provision of a secret ballot under Commonwealth Electoral Office supervision for the election of the officials of all organisations. 
I oppose the Bill on the grounds already stated by my colleagues in the Opposition. We believe that we have made an honest assessment of the effect of the proposed legislation and 'that we have demonstrated our concern for the trade unionists of this country by indicating that we will vote against the measure. We will do so in the hope that trade unions will accept their responsibilities and endeavour to consolidate their interests. I refer particularly to those in the numerous classifications which I have already said create irritating flow-on demands following the making of awards to any one section. We need complete harmony between the employee and the employer. It is the responsibility of this Parliament to ensure that such harmony exists. In a world that is suffering from an overdose of socialism it is very important that we take heed of the direction in which our work force is heading and that we take heed of what our work force is demanding. As responsible members of Parliament we ought to take a look at what is happening around the world and see what has happened in those places in which the trade unions have got out of hand and have become the force behind government. I oppose the Bill. 
Question put. 
That  the  Bill  he now read a second time. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he has given any consideration to the present plight of committees of management of homes for the aged or institutions which are in the process of building home units for the aged. Is he aware that the upper cost limit is preventing further units being built because of the inflationary tender prices being obtained and that the limit is also making the increase of the government capital subsidy from $2 for $1 to $4 for $1 of almost no benefit at this stage? Has the Minister made any decision to bring the upper cost subsidy limit up to the realistic figure so that plans and specifications already tendered can proceed? If so, what is that figure? 
-Tonight I want to take this opportunity to voice my concern for the rural people and the rural communities caught up in this country's economic situation. With inflation fast approaching the 20 per cent mark, I shudder to think what prices the population will have to pay in the year ahead. The policies of this Government have aggravated a situation already inflamed by a world problem of inflation. I ask this question: Why is the world plagued with inflation? It is a question that I can answer: It is because most countries are suffering from an overdose of socialism. Any country that has a socialist government such as Australia has at this time, particularly if the trade unions are communist controlled, has no rural policies. Such countries are not allowed to have such policies because the real socialist wants to kill private enterprise. If ever we have seen an example of a government wanting to kill private enterprise, we saw it in the recent Budget. 
Primary production is a private enterprise industry. Private individuals invest capital and accept the responsibility to service it. Primary producers and rural industries are the only section of the community that suffer from the lack of adjustment to their incomes because of any downturn in prices or, as is the case at this time, by a huge increase in costs brought about by inflation. 
Farmers are not in the happy position that if the farm does not pay they can take 6 months long service leave like most of the workers can today. Because of the policy of the present Government, people who are not working are walking the streets today with their normal salaries in their pockets. It is the policy of the Government to encourage people not to work. 
Net farm income this year will be less than half what it was last year. This is a far worse drop than was estimated recently. Figures published last Friday by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show that the situation is worsening much faster than has been generally realised. The value of cattle production this year will drop by $500m. That is 40 per cent down on the figures for last year. Wheat production will be down by $400m- by one-third- and wool production will be down by $300m- a quarter of the value of production last year. The gross value of rural production will fall by about 12 per cent. 
He does not want to hear. The gross value of rural production will fall by about 12 per cent to $5,674m. But farmers' costs must rise by about $500m or 20 per cent. Farmers' incomes, after meeting their costs, will thus be cut back by about $ 1,600m. This enormous drop in the incomes of primary producers will occur at the same time as the average wages of other Australians increase by about 23 per cent. 
That is right. It is little wonder the farmers, already worried about their deteriorating situation and the Government's contemptuous treatment of them, have reacted with even greater anger to a Budget which is simply another slap across the face from this Whitlam Government. The situation could be somewhat relieved by the 12 per cent devaluation. To highlight the wisdom of that belated decision I shall relate how the rural people in my area voiced their opinion. At a public meeting of 240 members of the rural community last Friday night certain policies were put forward as being essential to alleviate the discrimination currently being exercised against country people. Some of the resolutions were as follows: That inflation be attacked on all levels of government by tying salary increases to productivity, by reducing Government spending, by opposing a shorter working week. The second resolution stated that the Federal Government should cut the ties between the Australian and American dollars or should independently devalue. I think it was quite wise of those people to arrive at those resolutions, without the benefit of all the economic experts that are available to governments. Yet the Government can make only a very belated decision after rural people give it the advice. 
The third resolution recommended that farmers should receive long term low interest finance, and that as farmers do not contribute to inflation a credit squeeze applied to dampen demand should exclude farmers. Another resolution was that trade union leaders should not be beyond the law, as demurrage paid by Australia exporters due to political strikes is transferring millions of dollars from Australia's hands to Greek shipping magnates, and such strikes should be considered illegal or the Government be prepared to compensate for these unnecessary losses. These people thought these things out for themselves. This was a public meeting and these people came from their farms and businesses, interrupting their working days, to put up these points of view because they live in a rural community that is feeling the effects of very poor and unsound policies. A resolution which I think has great significance was that trade union leaders should not be beyond the law. Another one was that as transport costs greatly affect prices paid for commodities and reduce the returns for goods sold, governments should exercise greater restraint in taxing this life fine to rural areas. 
-That is what I said. This was a very important meeting because people came to voice their opinions and they certainly knew how to voice them. The devaluation, of course, as I said, will be welcomed by rural communities and by the rural industries particularly. It will improve prospects in international markets for Australian rural exports. Unfortunately, devaluation brings with it stimulus to domestic inflationary pressures which will add to the production cost problem of rural industry. These pressures have been further aggravated in the past week by the Budget. It remains now for the Government to wake up to itself and to reverse its general anti-rural policies which are not in the interests of Australia. I think perhaps that we ought to be taking a very serious look at the resolutions that were passed by the meeting of those people, 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! It being 1 1 o'clock the House stands adjourned until Tuesday next at 10.30 a.m. or such later time as  Mr Speaker  takes the Chair. 
-I do not want to be called a prophet of doom because the profits have gone and left us with the doom. Headlines in the newspapers today state: 'Beef prices again dropped sharply at Newmarket sales yesterday'. The falls ranged from 14c to 20c per lb. The leading article in tonight's Melbourne 'Herald' states: 'Big questions on meat prices'. These reports are ample reason for my entering the debate tonight on the adjournment motion. I take the opportunity to place before this Parliament the plight of those associated with the beef industry. I do so because of the indifferent attitude of the Government. When it took office on 2 December it was said by many that it would be a sad day for the primary producers of Australia. The sad day has been with us now for nearly 2 years, and today this is a sad country. When we compare today's economic situation with that of 2 years ago the rural scene is appalling. The second Labor Budget has been delivered, remodelled and is now being perservered with by a disgruntled Caucus, but there was not one recognition in the Budget of the present economic plight of rural Australia. Surely it must be evident to all that country people are a forgotten people. 
I do not want to dwell on the overall poor performance and the failure of the Government to recognise the difficulties facing the rural communities which my colleagues and I represent in this Parliament. What I especially want to draw the Government's attention to tonight is the precarious and almost impossible position of our beef producers. We on the Opposition side of the House cannot let the present situation continue. Therefore what I am about to propose has been very carefully considered by my colleagues and me. I want the Government to heed what I have to say and act upon it. It is abundantly clear that there needs to be a royal commission into the beef industry. One reason would be the attitude of the Government, which unashamedly stands by while the beef farmers head towards bankruptcy. Another reason would be that the Australian consumer is not a beneficiary of the producers ' low prices, which incidentally are the lowest for 30 years. This is an anomaly which must be solved. 
Rural people are becoming tired of the present Government and sick and tired of seeing everyone except themselves being compensated for the effects of inflation. Every wage rise is based on costs. Primary producers, particularly beef raisers, are in the hands of the export market. Their incomes are never subject to review when there is a downturn in prices. They believe, and I agree, that there should be a guaranteed stabilised price. They wonder at the present policy of the Government to pay full wages for 6 months to employees being retrenched when their employing industry has gone broke because of the Government's inability to keep the industry operative.' But the Government does not include the primary producer, even if he goes broke. This is an indictment of the Government. Why should the producers be forced to supply this nation and the world's food under such precarious circumstances? The cattle industry needs credit urgently. It needs at least $50m carry-on finance, free of interest, as an interim measure whilst the royal commission carries out its survey and produces a report. An emergency fund should be established so that primary producers with financial difficulties brought about by uprecedented and unpredictable causes which embarrass them can be assisted. 
The industry itself estimates its immediate need for about $50m for carry-on finance. I repeat that the cattle industry in Australia urgently needs credit. About one and threequarter million fewer head of cattle will be killed this year because of the export downturn. If the market had not collapsed to such an extent these cattle would have brought in about another $200m to producers. For producers who are dependent entirely on cattle this situation creates very serious liquidity problems, and there are 13,000 producers whose operations are based solely on cattle. The Australian National Cattlemen's Council estimates that many producers will suffer up to a 50 per cent drop in their gross farm incomes even before meeting a 25 per cent rise in their costs. How the devil are they supposed to live? They cannot get money from the banks or the stock agents and if they owe the money for cattle purchased and they cannot sell they are charged up to 15 per cent interest on their account. 
-Up to 1 5 per cent. 
-It is daylight robbery-there is no doubt about it. Calculations in some specific regions show that producers are getting for their meat a price that is little more than half the cost of producing it. With all the expertise in cattle raising, and with all the wisdom of Government experts and the advice of long-term beef raisers who have been in the industry all their lives, no one could have advised me last year that there would be a slump in prices this year. The great danger of all this is that producers will be forced to sell off their basic breeding stock to get a little cash to carry them over. The industry is not asking for special treatment, merely that the Government sees that funds are available through the normal sources at ordinary commercial interest rates. Unfortunately, I believe it has to be recognised that any action to make large sums available will have some inflationary effect. But this must be weighed up against the very serious long-term consequences that would flow from the sacrifices of valuable breeding stock to help producers meet what seems likely to be only a short-term liquidity problem. There is a very urgent need in the beef industry today for some financial assistance to be offered to producers in their time of peril. I say 'peril' because these people have a great financial investment which they must look after; they must service it. They find themselves in a most difficult position at this stage and I would request the Government to take urgent and sincere action to help them over this hurdle. 
-Whether the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  acknowledges that we in opposition have a point of view about him is immaterial. The fact remains that the Treasury is the focal point of this country's financial and economic survival. So the Treasurer, as the head of this important office, has to accept the criticism as well as the bouquets, if any,, that are levelled at the functions of the Department. That being so, I am not absolving the Government members from their responsibility in the policy making of the Treasury. Prior to the presentation of the Budget I predicted that because of the past actions of the Labor Government towards the rural community no sympathy would be meted out on this occasion. This was proved to be true. The Government's rural policies and its method of implementation since the 1972 election have been disastrous. 
It is all very well for the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to tell the House this morning that we are still a long way better off than we were this time last year. I recall the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  saying, in my electorate last yean 'You have never had it so good'. That shows that there was no sympathy at all towards those caught up in the present economic squeeze. The Government has offered no assistance to the beef industry and no assistance to the textile industry, except handouts to the employees which, after all, are probably 6 months notice of a death sentence. In all these debates I can assure the Committee that the Opposition will bring solidly home to the Government the policies of neglect and default that Labor is practising in relation to the rural community. The economic problems we will face in the coming year indicate not only poor economic management at home but also problems of restrictive trade internationally. Many of our trading partners are becoming more restrictive in terms of entry for exports of rural origin, partly because they are suffering downturns in economic growth. These downturns are in large part due to balance of payments problems and rising rural production levels in the importing countries. 
The Treasury policies have alienated many Australians and created divisions within the community which should not exist and which should not be tolerated. The Treasurer, expressing the views of his persistent majority of left wingers, must be the most embarrassed man in this Parliament and perhaps the most embarrassed man in Australia today.  His  statement over the weekend was an about-face of his former assertions on Australian Labor Party policies. The Budget plans to socialise this country by handouts to appease. But what of the future when private enterprise and initative have been killed and when local councils have been driven up the wall crawling to this Government for assistance to keep up maintenance and services to a standard to which the community is entitled while we wait on the Grants Commission's decision? 
Business initiative has been killed by capital gains tax. This tax, combined with probate duties, will have the effect of diminishing the family estate within 3 successive deaths. How could an investor face the future with confidence? How can we return to full employment with the killer instinct of this Government? We hear about the right to strike being the only means open to the employee. I believe the right to strike carries with it, like all rights, certain duties and responsibilities. No person has the right to strike without considering the consequences of his actions. Such actions should take into consideration the influence of inflation because inflation lies at the heart of our economic troubles and our industrial strife. This is not to ignore the role of militant union leaders who more and more are coming out into the open in their efforts to foment strikes. But it must be remembered that these union leaders can exert the power they wield largely because of the unrest and dissatisfaction which inflation is causing among their members. Workers are battling to keep up with the rising cost of living, and in doing so they are themselves contributing to further increases in costs. The right to strike is one of the prized and protected rights of the Australian worker, but only when negotiations have failed and there are no other weapons open to the worker to pursue the justice he seeks. But when the worker's foe- the victim of his offensivebecomes not simply his employer but the whole community this weapon and this right must be re-examined. 
I remind the Treasurer of the important matter of the beef industry, which I raised in this Parliament last week. I ask him to consider seriously the request I made for carry-on finance for those facing bankruptcy whilst the Royal Commission covers all the matters causing problems for the industry's economic production. I believe that a good case can now be made for the canning of good beef to supply a very needy market in countries without refrigeration. It would be a good way to reduce and relieve the problem of present refrigeration storage. Many countries would appreciate an opportunity to feed their starving population, and this Government could help to do it with canned beef. The Government should re-examine that proposition as one it can take over to the advantage of the meat producers. The Government should also give serious consideration to suspending the charges now imposed on the industry for export inspection services and for the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns. I believe the industry would be prepared to consider this matter again, perhaps in a different form, when the market situation returns to normal. But at present those charges are proving a very heavy burden for a seriously depressed industry to bear. It appears that the Government will be collecting far more from the industry this year than it needs to finance these operations, so I believe it would be reasonable for the Government to suspend the charges for the time being at least and to look at the whole question again later. 
The contradictory policies of this Government make it difficult to assess how it proposes to steer the destiny of this country. All I know is that we are going downhill financially, physically and very soon mentally if the present policies produce the results we are now getting. 
Another matter I wish to raise relates to the abolition of television licence fees. I ask the Treasurer. Why has the Government abolished television licence fees and imposed higher charges on telephone usage when both forms of revenue are handled by the same Department? Is it because the Government wants control of the media so that we cannot object to the programs that are being put on because we are not paying television licence fees and therefore have no rights? I think we ought to look at this matter very closely because it is taking away the right of the individual. My experience in this Parliament is that the right of the Parliament is to protect the right of the individual. 

 -Mr Speaker, an execution order has been issued for the death of the dairy industry by this Government. Falling returns from farming, together with the Government's management of the economy, can be seen only as nails in the coffin of the dairy industry. The Prices Justification Tribunal was instructed to review its July decision to grant only marginal rises in wholesale butter and cheese prices. I believe it is urgent that the Tribunal review them at this stage because of its failure to compromise on that occasion. Such an income boost is vitally needed, as well as stronger action by the Government in inflation control. 
The plight of the Australian farmers is being continually overlooked because we have a lame duck Minister in the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  who cannot and apparently does not have the inclination to win a vote in the Cabinet. 
-Or the Caucus as the honourable member for Wimmera has said. The Minister for Agriculture rides roughshod over his advisers, turns a bUnd eye to the mounting problems of rural poverty in Australia and a deaf ear to the voice of the Australian country men and country women. He has failed, as have his Cabinet ministerial colleagues and he will go down in history as having the distinction of presiding over the greatest downturn of activity for Australian rural industry, particularly the dairying industry. The presidency of the Labor Government has seen the dismantling of practical schemes of assistance to producers. This has occurred for one specific reason, that is, a reason of greed. Labor's collective hatred of rural people has been directed at the dairying industry. The reason why that hate has been so directed is that some of the major margarine companies are the biggest financial backers of the Labor Party and the deal that Labor did with them in the 1969, 1972 and 1974 elections was in return for slush funds that would cripple the dairying industry. 
With total political financial backing, the Labor Government has been about its task with nauseating glee. But it is not only the dairying industry that has been stabbed in the back. The meat industry has copped it. The wool industry is facing it. And it will not be long before the wheat industry cops it too. A compounding of these problems has been the Government's failure to restore sanity to our economic framework. The Prices Justification Tribunal earlier this year was told that farm production costs were rising at an annual rate of 25 per cent. I estimate, in the light of developments since then, that the rise in production costs is nearer 35 per cent. Our returns are not rising that much. We are witnessing the exodus from the dairying industry of the greatest number of farmers in the history of Australia. The Government can take immediate action to alleviate these problems. It can curb inflation by reforming taxation measures and by abolishing sales tax, by introducing tax cut-backs, by floating the Australian dollar cleanly and by taking a much stronger international trading position in bargaining with major importers of our dairy products. The Country Party, together with the Liberal Party, is committed to such a policy approach. It is time that the Labor Government woke up and realised that this is the only workable policy approach. 
In referring to the beef industry, I wish to quote some figures that I have in relation to the present position. Nearly 90 per cent of Australian beef goes to 3 main markets- the United 
States of America, Japan and the European Economic Community. The factors in the weak markets include economic conditions, changes in currency rates, consumption fall due to high retail prices, higher local production in importing countries, tariff changes and the accumulation of big stocks of meat. Special factors are the European Economic Community ban on beef imports from 16 July 1974 to 30 November 1974 and the postponement of a significant quantity of imports by Japan. These factors have made it almost impossible for the meat industry to survive. Canada imposed a global quota on beef imports for the year beginning 12 August. Strong political pressure exists in the United States for the reintroduction of beef import restraints, although these appear unlikely to be introduced in this year. The reason that I point these factors out is to indicate to the House that the Australian meat industry is of importance to our export income and that we ought to be pursuing other markets. Last night I made the point that we ought to be tinning beef so that countries which do not have the benefits of refrigeration can participate in the meat overflow that we have in Australia. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Education. I remind the Minister of the media release of 27 September announcing building grants totalling $1,532,870 for disadvantaged Catholic schools in 3 States. I understand that the amounts allocated were identical to those indicated to the applicants several months previously and which as yet have not yet been received. Are these grants the one and the same allocation? If so, were they to have been made from last year's Budget? If that is the case will there be another similar grant this financial year and when will it be announced? If there is to be only one grant allocated, is the Minister prepared to make a supplementary grant to cover the cost of bridging finance used in anticipation since the allocation was announced, and to overcome the loss in value due to the procrastination of the Government and the inflationary costs in the building industry, thus making the cost gap an almost insurmountable barrier? Will the Minister please clarify the position as it is causing grave concern to independent schools in my electorate? 
I take this opportunity tonight to tell the Parliament and the people of Australia of the plight of the textile and clothing industry in my electorate of McMillan. I am proud to say that because of the initiative of local government bodies in the area together with the co-operation of the State Government, we have had many thriving and clothing factories in my electorate. These have provided to the local community a good variety of job opportunities. I pay tribute here to the shires which have stretched themselves to their financial limits to encourage industry to decentralise their companies and business into the serenity of country life. We have heard so often from every member of the Government, whether in this House or outside the House at various public meetings throughout the various electorates, the good old propaganda phrase that they use- quality of life. This, they say, will be brought about by the present Government, particularly with assistance to local government for such services as social welfare measures, including child care and those sorts of things. They have pronounced the Government's policy and said that it has a marvellous humane outlook They have said that the Government plans to change Australia. 
This Government has certainly changed Australia. It has changed our financial stability. It has changed our people from a confident private enterprising race to a population bewildered and despairing. This Government has killed our industrial initiative by its inconsistent policies on economic matters. Whether this has resulted through bad advice or its inability to comprehend the end result of its policies, the fact remains that all of the policies of this Government have had a detrimental effect on the textile industry and the economy of that industry. In more simple terms, the policies of this Government have killed the textile and clothing industries. In fact, the Government has killed most industries and committed a most unforgivable crime. Having done that, the Government then set about to take care of those employees who are affected. 
My friend, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  pointed out some of the problems that these people face with regard to the RED scheme. The Government has set about to help those employees who have been affected by its poor economic decisions. Under that scheme their wages are paid for 6 months if they are retrenched from the textile industry. If I may say so, this is a poor consolation when a person lives in a country area where job opportunities depend on prosperous private enterprise operations. 'We will retrain them', says our Mend Cameron. 'Retrain them where?' I am askedand for what? 
At the moment, businesses have closed in my electorate to the extent that what is happening has become of grave concern to me. The many proposals put by the Opposition parties have been ignored by this Government- until tonight, when we witnessed in this House the most disgraceful mockery of parliamentary government. Measures were introduced in a complete reversal of the policies which broke this country. Why did the Government persist in removing all import and tariff duties? Why were 56 million garments allowed to come into Australia which has a population of 13 million? The textile industry was expected to survive these imports. How ridiculous! Surely it must have been evident to the Government that chaos would result This has happened. We said it would. Now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  makes a mockery of this Parliament and I have some doubts about the results of what we were told tonight. It is not good enough for the Government simply to reject and to ridicule the Opposition's proposals without bringing forward proposals of its own to deal with the situation in which the Government's actions clearly to date have been quite inadequate. It certainly is intolerable to have a Prime Minister refusing to answer any question at all about the economy and for Ministers to refuse to enter into any serious debate about it in the Parliament. 
The situation that faced me last week in my electorate was also an intolerable one. It was necessary for me to bring the managers and managing directors of clothing and textile factories in my electorate together to discuss their problems. They confirmed the incredible story that unless the Government alters its policy, blocks further imports and grants some carry-on finance, hundreds more employees will be put off. I have been concerned for many months now about this situation. Despite my pleas to Ministers in this House, the Government has allowed these textile industries to go to the wall. This would appear to me to be quite deliberate. Perhaps it is because of their misguided belief that there would be cheaper goods for the wage earners. 
Let me highlight this situation by referring to the 'Latrobe Valley Express' of 6 November 1974 which had the headline: 'Textiles in Trouble '. The report states: 
Eight Gippsland textile manufacturers told of 443 retrenchments as a direct result of the Federal Government's tariff and import quota policies, at a meeting in Moe on Monday. Alarming as that was, even more so was the knowledge that those figures came from only 8 firms in textiles. How many more Gippsland manufacturers are suffering from unfair overseas competition? Shoe manufacturers, for instance, are involved. How many of them have retrenched workers or intend to do so? At the Moe meeting, the 8 manufacturers estimated that the monetary loss to the community by way of wages total $2.25m per annum. This is a worrying sum for shopkeepers and other traders, to say nothing of the depressing effect on families where retrenchments have created severe financial problems. True most of those retrenched are the second wage earners in the family and even then their wages are being continued for 6 months by the Government but how few families can afford a sudden cut in income now or in 6 months and how many of the women retrenched are, in fact, supporting their families? No matter how we look at it the picture throughout Gippsland is depressing. 
That is an indictment of the Government. 
Another headline in the same paper proclaims '500 Face Sack in Textiles'. Perhaps I may be permitted to compliment myself by saying that my photograph appears on the same page as a photograph of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam' who, by his action, has caused concern among people in the Latrobe Valley. As a result of my meeting with representatives of the textiles industries last Monday week a telegram was sent to the Prime Minister telling him of the plight of the textile industries in the area, advising him of the number who already had been retrenched and informing him how many would be retrenched before the Christmas period if nothing were done. The Prime Minister was also asked by telegram whether he would send a representative to the Latrobe Valley to explain his statement of 22 October concerning country towns and assistance to their industries. It was such a negative and unpalatable sort of statement that nobody could make head or tail of it. They could get no sense from it. 
Three days passed before I got an acknowledgement of the telegram. I had proposed having another meeting with representatives of these textile industries at which this matter could be explained to them so that they might get the immediate assistance they required. Because no reply had been received to the telegram I made several telephone calls to the Prime Minister's Department and eventually got an acknowledgement that the telegram had been received. The following day I got a rebuff- an indication that the Prime Minister would not send a representative and that the matter had been referred to the Department of Manufacturing Industry. That Department could not send a representative to the area because it was too busy. It was probably concerned with all the other problems facing the textile industries throughout Australia. The textile industries in my electorate are still waiting for assistance and advice from the Prime Minister's Department or from the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby).  Up to the present they have had no assistance whatever 
-I wish to make a  personal explanation. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. He would be well aware of the plight of the textile and clothing industries. Does he believe that this situation has developed as a result of the removal of import duties, allowing imported goods to flood their traditional markets? Will the government assistance, announced by the Prime Minister on 22 October last and now being talked about, really be allocated in time to save the industries the embarrassment of closing? How many industries have been given actual financial assistance? What is the total figure to date? Does the Minister realise that many of the textile industries are decentralised industries and are committed to repay loan money provided through local government? When the industries close, will the Government go to the assistance of the shires which acted on Government advice? 
-This Bill is another illustration of the Government's procrastination and I must say that it is explained in very contradictory terms. Let me read part of the second reading speech of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in which he said: 
This Bill seeks Parliament's approval for the first legislative expression of the Government's intention . . . 
Just imagine- 2 years in office and this is the first legislative expression of its intention. We have been trying for 2 years to tell the Government where it is heading. The Minister went on to say that this intention was announced by the Prime Minister on 23 April 1 974. He continued: 
Virtually all features of the Government's program for structural adjustment assistance are already in operation. 
If they are already in operation, why do we need the Bill? I think that if they are already in operation we cannot look forward to very much because we have had nothing to date. The Minister then said that there is a need to give the whole program a more denned and permanent form through legislation to establish the Structural Adjustment Board, but that this would take some time. However, there must be legislative authority for loan guarantees and this is the real importance of this Bill. I think that is pretty reasonable. Who would want to set up a loan without any guarantees whatsoever? The Minister went on to say: 
To help progress towards the community's social and economic goals, the Government sees it as desirable in appropriate cases to promote and make easier the process of structural change in industry. . . . The costs of inadequate ability to make these changes can be very high. Estimates have been made- and I stress that the precise figures are very much a matter of debate - 
They could be too- which suggests that the total cost of support of Australian industry in its present form may run into hundreds of millions of dollars each year. The encouragement of structural adjustments which will reduce this cost has been one of the central aims of this Government. 
It has taken a jolly long time for the Government to get around to putting machinery into operation that would do something about it. Who says that it is not a centralist socialist machine? The Minister went on to say: 
Over a period, if movement into more viable industries and particular sectors of industries can be encouraged, or indeed even if their growth can be fostered while investment in other less attractive sectors is not encouraged, steady worthwhile progress can be made towards a more soundly based industrial structure. 
What a lot of philosophical poppycock. One needs to be a psychologist to understand what the Minister is talking about. I should be unkind to Australian industries if I were to say that this Bill should not be allowed to proceed. If I were acting upon my natural principles I would vote against it. I would say that it would be unkind because I know only too well the extent of industry's financial position. But I say this: There would have been little need for this sort of action if the Government had recognised the consequences of its stupid actions in removing import restrictions and having 2 revaluations of the currency and an across the board 25 per cent tariff reduction. The resultant influx of cheap imported goods has placed our manufacturing industries in a very precarious position. In actual fact, many industries have had to close down. This is something that we all hoped would never happen. 
One of the very unsavoury things about the Government's attitude is its lack of feeling towards those people who run the industries and those people who have their capital invested. The initial pleas of these industries were completely ignored until such time as the inevitable happened and firms had to close down. The laying off of staff was delayed while the position was being explained to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. All the employees had to be put off before the Minister really came to a decision. Surely we could see these things happening? We have been telling the industries and this Government for so long that the tariff policies of the Government and so forth were leading this country and industries into financial difficulties. Why the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has not asked for the Minister's resignation I will never know. It is beyond my comprehension, but perhaps I am being unkind to the Minister. It is not his fault that he cannot think beyond the level of the Prime Minister. As a last resort the Government, through the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  is buying its way out of trouble by paying the employees retrenchment money- full pay for 6 months, and I understand that the employees are having difficulty in getting that too. 
The honourable member for Mallee tells me there is a delay of up to 10 weeks. 
-The honourable member for Wimmera tells me he knows of one person who has waited for up to 12 weeks. It is a pretty disastrous affair when you have not got a job and the Government does not come to the party, when you have not got Christmas money. But what a false set of values; pay for six months and no job after that. The Government talks about retraining. Retraining for what? Nobody has any business confidence. Nobody will set up an industry. It is a great prospect for the genuine worker. The incompetence of this Government in allowing the industries to suffer the embarrassment of going cap in hand for the assistance under the provisions of this Bill is to be deplored. How much better would it have been for the industries to have remained in a productive unit? This Government, of course, never considers productivity. People who are involved as administrators of various industries, particularly the textile industry, cannot really understand the Government's attitude towards them. It appears to be a deliberate attempt to kill them. It is my honest opinion that this Government, because of its deliberate action, will go down in history as a cat and mouse Government. It plays with the people of this country in the same way as my own torn cat acts when he catches a mouse. He lets the mouse have a little run and then he pounces on him. The Government is doing exactly the same thing. This is a cold, calculating and heartless socialist regime. It says: 'Do as I tell you ', not ' Do as I do '. 
Today we are a chaotic nation with high inflation and a rising unemployment problem as well as a host of dissipated industries. Industries having reached this stage, after all the advice that this would be the end result, the Minister now proudly struts this legislation into this House at a time when we on this side, because of our concern for the future, have to accept it. The Bill seeks approval for the first legislative expression of the Government's intention which, incidentally, was announced by the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam)  first on 23 April and again on 22 October. This seems to be a principle of the Government. It softens you up with an announcement, then 6 months later it confirms it and sometime later you get the result. It is a son of stop and go philosophy and you are well prepared for the inevitable. 
It has been recognised that country industries have particular difficulties in adjusting to structural changes and that is very easily understood by anyone who has been involved in getting industries into the country as I have been as a member of a shire council. I know that councils push themselves to their financial extremities to get industries into their areas so that employment opportunities can be given to the people. I believe that 56 million garments alone were allowed to be imported for a population of 13 million people. That seems a ridiculous sort of thing, does it not? 
-She did not. In the presentation of this Bill the Minister has done quite an academic exercise on the industries as they were or as they should be. Millions of dollars are predicted to cure the present economic position. At this stage I must beg the Minister to go to the aid of the industry with finance as quickly as possible. I normally would not do this but I am conscious that the Government has us over a barrel. Some assistance has already been given. But this has been again too late to stop retrenchments. It is a pity that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry does not have any practical business experience. I realise that we are nearing the end of the session and therefore I will curtail my remarks on this Bill. I am very disappointed that we have reached a stage where we must accept something like this measure when preventative measures would not have allowed us to get into the position we are in. 
-The National Health Bill (No. 3) appears to me to be like a stillborn child that is getting mouth to mouth resuscitation. This legislation has been put before this Parliament so often that we are just about sick and tired of it. On these occasions every opportunity is given for repetitive argument. It would be safe to say that this child, this National Health Bill (No. 3), was conceived by two incompatible parents- the Australian Labor Party and the Australian public. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  flirted with the Australian public and fell victim to a little encouragement. Because the Labor Party received about 50 per cent of the votes at the last election, the Minister thinks he has a mandate to carry out something that he can impose upon the whole of the Australian people. 
Our opposition to this legislation stems from the wisdom of our philosophy. Our policy, which is a free enterprise approach, means that we believe in voluntary participation built around the initiative and responsibility of people. Naturally there are some people- only a small percentagewho do not or cannot for various reasons accept that responsibility. It is in those areas that our realistic approach allows for some additions to the voluntary scheme being accepted by the public sector, namely the government. We do not believe in the government dominating the population. This Bill has been dished up to this Parliament on a number of occasions. Each time the title has had to be amended to include the correct date. The Minister has put up a continual barrage of abuse of those people who oppose this scheme. He talks about the saving to the taxpayer. What saving? I wish someone would talk sense to this Minister. He knows full well that unless the National Health Bill (No. 3) is carried Medibank cannot realistically become operativeunless, of course, he can get in the back door to the private health funds. He knows that this whole scheme is the responsibility of the taxpayers. They did not give him a mandate to fiddle with their money. They did not give him authority to kill their freedom. But he was given the doubtful responsibility as a Minister of giving guidance on the welfare of the people. 
I am sick and tired of the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  using her sanctimonious approach about the people's rights and how her socialist Government has a mandate. Goodness me, what next? People's rights are better protected when the people themselves are involved, particularly in policies for their own welfare. That is the free enterprise approach which was so successful when we were in government. We recognise the need for social welfare. We recognise the value of and acknowledge some portions of this Bill which need to become operative. But we will not recognise or have a bar of socialism, and national health and Medibank smell of socialism. 
I am indebted to my colleague, the honourable member for McKellar  (Mr Wentworth),  for coming in to bat third man down and for carrying the bat so well. As my colleagues have quite rightly said, this Bill is an important improvement but still needs some small amendments. The Bill makes some rather drastic changes in the functions of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. It removes from the Act any authority now the responsibility of the Attorney-General and vests that authority and responsibility by substituting the word 'Minister'. 
Formal and consequential amendments are proposed to alter the schedule of the Principal Act. Clause 4 (2) proposes to amend section 27 of the Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974 by omitting from sub-section (3) the word 'AttorneyGeneral' and substituting the words 'Minister for the time being '. This is a very loose term in my opinion which allows for a great variety of control. I repeat that the Bill proposes that the words 'Minister for the time being administering the Parliamentary Counsel Act 1970-1975' be substituted for the word 'Attorney-General'. Section 3, of course, is in line with that purpose. I acknowledge that for convenience of many members who from time to time desire to have the expertise of draftsmen effectively to word suggested amendments that are required, some authority has to exercise control of how and when these expert draftsmen can be used. 
I also acknowledge that every effort is always made to allow our draftsmen to assist wherever possible. I think that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made that point very clear. As a long standing member of this House he would be well versed in the service that is given to members by the parliamentary draftsmen at the will of the Attorney-General's Department. 
-I am pleased to know that he has some friends. 
-A11 right. It is my own private opinion that the Attorney-General is the right and proper authority. The majority of amendments moved by the Opposition come from back bench members or people who do not have at their fingertips the expertise which is required. 
I was a member of the Subordinate Legislation Committee in the Parliament of Victoria. The role of that committee was to vet all the regulations that went through the Parliament which came under the authority of people who were authorised by legislation to make certain regulations. But the big problem that we had was the one raised by the honourable member for Mackellar; that is, the consolidation of Acts after regulations had been thoroughly vetted, approved and gazetted. Perhaps any drafting alteration should be firmly controlled from one authority. That may sound somewhat contradictory but I am concerned- that the draftsmen whose assistance is so essential to back benchers and shadow Ministers should have one permanent head and not a roving one. The amendment refers to the 'Minister at the time'. Has anyone defined who the Minister at the time is? The person wanting the amendments drafted might have some difficulty in finding the 'Minister at the time'. Perhaps I can say that this Bill is a little confusing in its actual concept. Of course, we see great merit in some alteration to it to bring it more into line with modern practice. 
The Opposition will not oppose the Bill but wonders why the change is being made when in fact it would seem perfectly logical that the Attorney-General should be the legal authority on legal drafting of legislation or amendments. I do not favour having to look up who is the 'Minister for the time being'. It is hard enough trying to catch up with the permanent Minister at any time, let alone an unknown one who may be responsible for parliamentary draftsmen. The amendment, of course, is one with which I wholeheartedly agree. I had intended to mention the fact that a pool of draftsmen ought to be available at all times without honourable members having to seek full authority for this assistance. They should be available to assist people who need amendments drafted. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  is a very good one. 
The Office of Parliamentary Counsel was originally established by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government with the complete approval of members on the opposite side of the House who were then the Opposition. Already, in order to meet the demands, the Office has been relieved of the responsibility for drafting ordinances and regulations and any work associated with the printing of laws, much of which relates to the Australian Capital Territory. It would be reasonable therefore that the amendment should be carried as it would allow a source of expertise to flow from the 2 additional personnel who would be available. I think that sufficient has been said to indicate that the Opposition sees merit in some of the changes and would welcome the opportunity for the inclusion of the amendment in the legislation. 
I am utterly amazed at the audacity of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  He recognises the problems but will not even try to correct them. He will not accept the amendment for a whole lot of unreasoned reasons, none of which would stand up to good argument.  His  attitude is totally inconsistent with his boast that the Government has provided everything that is necessary or more than previous governments did in 23 years and this sort of nonsense. Here we are offering him aU the assistance possible and he is not prepared to accept it. I think the amendment is possibly the best part of the Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
-The establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal brings to my mind the advantages that have been gained by all-party statutory parliamentary committees in the Victorian Parliament. My mind goes back to the Subordinate Legislation Committee which I mentioned earlier and to the Statute Law Revision Committee of which the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  was a member. The Subordinate Legislation Committee filled a very important role in the policing and correction of the regulations made by statutory bodies which had powers to make regulations outside of Parliament. The regulations had to be consistent with the powers conferred on the statutory body and at all times the rights of individuals had to be protected. The Committee had power to scrutinise and report upon any discrepancies. In other words, it was its duty to report adversely only to the Parliament and it was the Parliament itself which dealt with adverse reports. 
This Bill establishes a tribunal with independence to deal with appeals against administrative decisions and it could be termed as being consistent with the ombudsman legislation. The Bill lays down quite clearly a list of terms under a variety of headings. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has quite rightly voiced a need for caution in the field of intrusion into the privacy of individuals. I believe that anyone who reads his speech will see that the need for the concern that he has expressed for this legislation is quite clearly spelt out. I believe that a review of the exercise of administrative discretions by public servants is in the public interest and in the interests of the rights of individuals. 
The selection of the personnel of the Tribunal ought to be made by an all-party committee so that political bias is completely eliminated. I am not suggesting that a public servant cannot be placed in a position of authority by any one party or government. But in order that political capital is not made or inferred, the appointment could be made by an aU-party committee. Of course, it Will be pointed out by the Government that many of the appointees will be judges and that the Tribunal will have full judicial status. I still say that a tribunal should be made up of completely unbiased personnel. I have just set out the way in which this could be done. 
I must admit that if an administrative appeals tribunal is to be effective in correcting any faults in administrative acts it must have a measure of independence. The Bill is somewhat vague in setting out the number of personnel who will be required for the Tribunal. Qualifications for members, other than presidential members, are set out in clause 7 (2). These qualifications are reasonable for such an important role that the Tribunal must play in the protection of the public. 
For a long time there has been a need to offer protection as a fundamental right to the individual. Protection from decisions of the public servants who can inadvertantly make mistakes is essential. This Bill should eliminate all of the inadequacies of the continued formality of the Houses of Parliament so well espoused by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  when he referred to the fallacy of questions without notice and questions on notice. Over a long period we have fallen into a habit of political formality which is not giving beneficial results to this Parliament. 
I return to the value of all-party statutory committees consisting of members of both Houses. One of the roles that such a committee could effectively carry out is the appointment of the important members of this instrument of administrative review which is the subject of the legislation now before us. The background to this Bill is sound but it could be improved with a closer interpretation of the Bland Committeee report. We in the Opposition welcome this measure, but we will seek to amend it at the Committee stage to give it more immediate effect. However, we need the co-operation of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to achieve this. As one of my colleagues has something to add to this debate I shall let my time lapse in his stead. 
-During the second reading debate it was unfortunate that the gag had to be applied to someone who knows something about the life assurance industry, someone who has made his living as a salesman in that field and someone who had the welfare of the policy holders of the company for which he worked at heart. It is quite obvious that the Government does not want to hear the points that I want to raise. There is no way that this Government can escape the wrath of the people. 
I do not want to take the Minister on at this stage. The Australian people . Will vent their wrath on the Government if this legislation is allowed to go through the Parliament. Insurance companies have always kept clear of politics. They have a real responsibility and that is why they have kept away from politics. After all, the POliCY holders are the insurance industry. There are 3 million policy holders in 
Australia and 9 million policies. It is a very responsible role that life . assurance companies play. If the life assurance companies fear that government intervention into the field of insurance jeopardises their POliCy holders and the dividends by way of bonuses, they have every right to let the Australian people know the sinister method being applied to nationalise the insurance industry. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-I  do not uphold the point of order. Clause 6 in particular is fairly embracing. 
I thank you for your ruling,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I know that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is much more generous than the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  on this occasion. With the Government's announced intention to enter the insurance field by setting up this Australian Government Insurance Corporation, as it is now to be called, there is one overriding concern currently exercising the minds of many Australians. They are asking where all these changes are leading us. Since 1972 we have seen a tremendous increase in the Public Service, which is now a huge force operating the changes of policies from the free enterprise operation into a socialist centralist bureaucratic machine. I emphasise the word 'machine' because soon there will be no one in this country who will have a soul to call his own. Everyone will be dependent on the Government once the insurance companies are taken away from the free enterprise business operation. I am becoming more and more allergic to the Government's attitude. In fact I am a little like my neighbour who kicks his dog every time he sees him because if he is not coming away from making mischief he is on his way to make it. I feel inclined to do the same thing sometimes. 
So many subtle changes are taking place that it is impossible to see anything emerging except complete control over every facet of our lives Nationalisation is just around the corner with the Government's entry into the general insurance and life assurance fields. The entire industry is now under challenge from 4 legislative measures- the national compensation plan, the national superannuation plan, the Australian Industry Development Corporation and National Investment Fund, and the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. The Government's proposals will affect 3 million policy holders in Australia. Most people are not aware of the true significance of the proposals. I believe it is a back door method of nationalisation of our monetary system. It will certainly make it very easy for the takeover of the banks. In 1949 when the former Chifley Government decided to nationalise the banks it was a very sensitive nerve centre of the general public, and the nationalisation of banking was defeated on that occasion not only by the people outside but also by the people who worked within the banks. Since that time we have been lulled into a sense of false security. The nationalisation of life assurance- which in itself is a self-help social security system- could well be used as the backdoor to complete nationalisation and Government control. 
I take this opportunity to espouse the value of life assurance and the guarantees it supplies to the private business sector and for the protection of private individuals. This socialist maniacal Government, hell bent on destruction of private enterprise, overlooks this great and important role. It overlooks the insurance industry's contribution to the Treasury of this Government. It overlooks the protection of life savings. The great majority of the 9 million life policies in force are with mutual offices. These are in fact co-operative societies and are owned by the policy holders themselves. They have no shareholders and are administered solely for the benefit of the owners of the policies. All profits are passed to policy holders. 
In recent days we have seen and heard a most dastardly attempt to discredit members of the National Country Party with incredible accusations of intrigue. Members of this famous socialist Government led by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who has contempt and ridicule for anyone who would dare to protect the Aus.tralian public from his socialist onslaught, have suddenly realised that the Australian community has a backbone and real guts. The people will repel this Government's intrusion into the life assurance field or any attempt to nationalise this country completely. What a lot of nonsense it is to say that we would refuse insurance for natural disasters. Of course we would not refuse insurance for natural disasters. 
-We would not. The speech of the Minister, reiterated by the Prime Minister, cited the disasters of Brisbane and Darwin. The problems associated with natural disaster insurance have been clearly recognised by the industry. In order to lay greater stress on the importance of cover against such contingencies it recently took the initiative following the Brisbane floods and, with the agreement of the Prime Minister, examined the whole area of natural disasters in consultation with Government representatives. As a result, a submission has been made to the Department of the Treasury suggesting a wider framework of insurance against these disasters. So it is completely wrong for the Government to say that the industry has taken no steps towards combating the problem of natural disasters. 
If its suggestions were adopted there would be no necessity to establish a completely new organisation to provide this form of protection, and further duplication of services would thus be avoided. Such an implication is quite misleading and to a large extent untrue. It does little credit to the Government's presentation of its case. In the case of cyclone damage normal insurance cover is available and insurers collectively are now in the process of paying some $2 80m to policy holders as a result of that availability. The major difference between that sum and the $500m estimated as the total cost of cyclone Tracy is represented by damage to Australian Government property which was not insured. On the other hand, it is true that there was a substantial degree of under insurance in Darwin, especially among house owners. Flood insurance, too, was available to a limited extent in Brisbane. It was not available everywhere because there are many locations in that city where flood is not an insurable risk in the normal sense. 
I want to register my disapproval for this measure. I see it as an intrusion into the private enterprise field of business. I see it as an intrusion into the rights of the individual who has a right of free choice to protect his life's savings and his welfare in his declining years. I would not mess around with this measure. I would throw it out. We have already made progress with the formula for national disaster insurance. So, let us dispense with this mockery of the Government's when it says that it is caring for the welfare of Australians. I have never heard so much rot in my life. The Government by this measure is ensuring the complete social destruction of Australians and making a mockery of democratic government. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put: 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister will recall that on 27 September 1973 this House carried a private member's motion moved by the honourable member for McMillan requesting a joint Victorian Government-Commonwealth Government appraisal of the production of oil from coal. Can the Minister tell me what steps have been taken to carry out a feasibility study? Has his Department had any contact with the Victorian Government? If so, what progress has been made? Is the Minister still keen to assist in the proposition for the production of oil from coal as a national project? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it intended that the Australian Postal Commission will be operative by 1 July 1975. 
If so, is it proposed to withdraw several country district offices throughout Victoria. 
If so, what are the names of the district offices to be withdrawn, and when. 
Will the proposed alterations or relocations be fully discussed with present staff before the public announcements are made. 
Has the Department considered the consequences for existing staff should they be transferred in respect of (a) possible financial losses and (b) social disadvantages, etc. 
Will the Postmaster-General give an assurance that all aspects of the economics of such withdrawals will be thoroughly discussed with local communities and Post Office branch staffs before any final decisions are made. 
-The wording of clause 14 is so wide that all the accusations that have made from this side of the House could well be a true diagnosis of the whole situation. At a time when the Australian Government lobbies its intention to enter the insurance field the thoughts of Professor Friedman, who visited Australia, could be very pertinent, because Professor Friedman as a known advocate of the sentiment that governments are solely responsible for inflation, accuses them of getting involved in fields in which they have no business. Professor Friedman, of course, argues on the basis that governments have no business in business enterprises. I think that it has been well demonstrated over the years that the initiative of private enterprise is the only factor which gives benefit to the community. Australia is sponsored by private enterprise and yet the Government continues its business bashing by penalising thrift and reducing incentive. 
As I have said, clause 14 is so wide that it involves all the opportunities for governments to do those things which we do not want them to do. Perhaps I could say, to use a phrase, that they are adopting or attempting to adopt the role of Father Christmas. The Government is responsible for public funds. By contrast, all mutual life assurance societies are answerable to their policy holders. There are 3 million pOliCY holders throughout Australia today and they are the life assurance industry. The Government should not be attacking life assurance companies by unfairly competing with them. Honourable members opposite should not compare our attitude with the airy-fairy propaganda they put out trying to show how well their other socialist measures are going to work. They talk about those measures that are going to work. But the Government has not yet produced anything that is working with any great benefit to this community. If this Government put its mind to protecting the Australian people from the disasters which are mentioned in the legislation and let the Australian people manage their business affairs it would be doing a good job for the private enterprise of this country. It is no good the Government trying to protect the community by inflicting upon it a scheme that it does not want. If the Government wants to be Father Christmas, one field in which it can play this role is that of disasters. 
We can overcome the difficulties in the disaster field. This matter was well canvassed in this Par.liament prior to the introduction of the legislation now before us. Surveys that have been taken have laid the framework within the insurance industry itself for the establishment of a proper disaster fund without encroaching into the field of private enterprise or into the field of mutual life assurance societies which are run by pOliCy holders and not the directors or anyone else. I submit that the reasons given by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in introducing the Bill contain little of substance to justify the creation of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. This is so because highly competitive general insurance services already exist. Natural disaster needs could be effectively and more economically made available through the existing insurance framework. Existing Australian Government insurance services are largely unrelated to the new activities envisaged; and the Australian Government revenue seems likely to decrease rather than increase as the result of the formation of the Corporation. 
There are 3 main reasons why this measure is ill timed. Firstly, it will conflict violently with the Government's announced desire to create more confidence in the private sector generally; secondly, it will aggravate, even if only for a limited period, the already high level of unemployment; and thirdly, it represents, as the former Treasurer has already indirectly admitted, an unwarranted and therefore wasteful diversion of resources especially at a time when the Government is faced with a Budget deficit of $3,000m. 
I think that this measure should be deferred at least until after the Budget session. We need to give further consideration to the amount of money that is required to put this scheme into operation. Also the officers who will provide the expertise will have to be carefully drawn from the ranks of the existing companies. It will be only by a method of squeeze that the Government will be able to get these people and in the process it will do away with the life assurance companies. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General a question which refers to administration arrangements within the Postmaster-General's Department. Can the Minister explain in precise terms what is wrong with the existing field management structure in the Postal Services Division of the Department? Is the Minister aware that as a result of the proposed reduction in postal management centres increased costs will be incurred? Can he tell me what new responsibilities and functions are envisaged in the central office and State head office administrations which justify the substantial increase in staff numbers and job classifications? Will the Minister agree that district organisations could be made quite workable without a wholesale restructuring of districts and transfer of staff members if district postal managers were given the authority that would enable them to operate more effectively? 
-Tonight I want to acknowledge the importance of Australia's dairy industry. I do so with a proprietary interest in its past activities and a real concern for its future. The problems facing dairy farmers are common to any primary producer. Many of these problems are accentuated and reflected in the farmer's income. I do not want to take a pessimistic attitude, but I want to emphasise my real concern for the manner in which this Government has treated primary producers generally over the past  Vh  years. The Government's unsympathetic and discriminatory treatment of primary producers has created an unprecedented lack of enthusiasm for production throughout the farming community. 
-I am not generalising. Many farmers are leaving the industry. Something like 1150 farmers left- one area last year. This Government has stifled initiative, slashed incomes and threatened traditional means of livelihood. It has affected not only producers but also business people and the general community in all the country areas because of its attitude. In the broader view it has disadvantaged all Australians and the millions in the less fortunate countries who suffer malnutrition or starvation. I think that point was highlighted tonight when the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  referred to the fact that the Australian 
Dairy Produce Board in its activities overseas has been endeavouring to introduce into the less fortunate countries some of the dairy products which can be produced quite efficiently in Australia. The result of  2Vi  years of Labor Government is a recession rivalling, if not surpassing, the severity of the depression of the 1930s. 
I have heard of a world crisis. The inability of this socialist Government to govern Australia is manifest in the highest inflation and the worst unemployment in Australia's history. This is having a damaging effect on the dairy farmers of this country. It is a record of government of which not only the Australian Labor Party but also Australia and its people should be thoroughly ashamed. 
This BUI amends the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1 924- 1 973 to change the powers and membership of the Australian Dairy Produce Board in a program to provide progressively more effective regulatory and marketing services to the Australian dairy farmers. The Australian Dairy Produce Board has been renamed the Australian Dairy Corporation. This has been accepted by the organisations, producers and manufacturers who were consulted at many stages during the preparation of this Bill. Changes have been agreed to at meetings with major dairy industry organisations. I pay a tribute, as did the honourable member for New England, to the efficiency of the Victorian Dairyfarmers Association,' the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Limited and those bodies which have so assiduously contributed their efforts in the interests of dairy farmers throughout Australia 
Of course there has been a long history of problems. Some of the problems stem from the manufacture of dairy products in areas where it is not economical. Over the years this has caused big problems. Inefficiency cannot be tolerated in any industry. The dairy farm, because of its nature, has become one of the most important single unit operations in the whole of the primary industry makeup. It is a family farm. Of course many such farmers would never be liable to pay income tax for the simple reason that thenincome would be insufficient. . I hope that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which will be brought down at the end of July Will make recommendations in favour of the restoration of some of the price support schemes. They should be re-implemented. 
The Government proposes to strengthen the capability of the Australian Dairy Produce Board by restructuring it and by giving it a new name, the Australian Dairy Corporation, to identify it more closely with circumstances in 1975 and beyond. The circumstances facing the Australian dairy industry are very different since the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. Prior to that the United Kingdom was the principal market for the disposal of Australia's dairy products. The Australian dairy farmers suffered a big blow when the EEC took away from us one of our traditional markets. The entry of the United Kingdom into the EEC upset the whole structure of our marketing. 
It is now very important that we look, in a more businesslike manner, at the situation in which the industry finds itself. The new Corporation Will have the responsibility of going out to find new markets. The industry will have to operate under the new techniques which many of the butter factories today are developing with the expertise of experienced operators. In order to gain greater efficiency and to make better use of the technical expertise many dairy factories have been amalgamating. The level of efficiency that has been attained can be gauged by the volume of throughput of the factories 
The renaming of the Australian Dairy Produce Board as the Australian Dairy Corporation involves some rather curious decisions. I note that the Corporation is to consist of 11 members. Firstly, there is to be an independent chairman. I would raise no objection at any stage to the appointment of an independent chairman. Secondly, 3 members representing the dairy farmers Will also be appointed to the Corporation. It is proper that representatives of the dairy farmers should be on the Corporation because after all the Corporation is a dairy farmer's organisation and it will handle their products. 
One of the greatest problems that faces the dairy farmer today is the hazards that he must put up with, ranging from climatic and animal health hazards to the adverse effect that overseas markets have on the sale of his product. The man at the end of the line is the dairy farmer. I think that the man who is directing operations should have a fair say. I think that a representation of 3 dairy farmers on a board of 1 1 members is quite inadequate. I think that at least a representative from each manufacturing State with additional representatives from States such as Victoria, which produces about 60 per cent of the total butter manufacture, should be on the Corporation. 
The Bill also provides that 3 members representing manufacturers and 2 members with special qualifications shall be appointed to the Corporation. I understand that the special qualifications will be determined by reference to industry committees. I think that is reasonable in itself. However, I think that a dairy farmer with special qualifications would be someone who has had considerable business experience in both the manufacturing and producing sides of the industry. . The Bill also makes provision for the appointment of one employee representative and one Government representative. Here we are getting into a difficult situation. Is the employee representative to be an employee of a dairy farmer, such as a very good and well versed share farmer who has considerable experience in the industry, or will it be someone who washes vats at a factory or has something to do with the manufacturing side? Representatives from this section of the industry already are to be represented on the Corporation. I think that if an employee representative is to be a member of the Corporation probably we should have a representative from both sides of the industry. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was discussing the composition of the Australian Dairy Corporation and the appointments to it. I was making a point with regard to the employee representative. Whilst I do not decry the value of an employee representative I would like to think that he had the interests of the producer at heart. Who would be more useful in pointing out the value of marketing procedures than the share farmer, the person whose livelihood depends on the monetary results? I make this as a point to consider seriously. Then, we come to the one Government representative. It seems to me that the Government will have one hell of a big say in this Corporation. After all, the Minister for Agriculture will appoint all the representatives. I venture to say that if any dairy farmer showed real concern for the result of that procedure, he would have every reason to do so. I am afraid that I have lost faith in the Minister for Agriculture. He does nothing, says nothing and gives nothing away. Let me highlight his performance by reading to the House extracts from the speech he made to the Farm Writers and Broadcasters Society of Victoria in 1973. This illustrates his failure. He said: 
Recently I said that we do not want the rural sector to become one vast sheltered region soaking up scarce public funds that could be better spent upgrading vital community services that benefit both country and city dwellers. This statement has been wrongly interpreted by some people as meaning that a big axe is about to be wielded to lop off all subsidies and other concessions to the rural sector. 
He then said: 
This is just not so. 
Later on the Minister went on to say: 
While the axe will not be wielded with gay abandon on existing rural subsidies it will be my aim to have them critically examined as they fall due for renewal or even earlier, to see where modifications and indeed improvements are desirable. 
In the same speech the Minister said: 
All Ministers are in Cabinet with an equal voice. If primary industry gets downgraded, it will be because I failed to do my homework or exercise a proper role in Cabinet when presenting my submissions. I have no intention of letting this happen. 
When interviewed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission television program 'This Day Tonight' in June 1974,  Senator Wriedt  said this: 
I have initiated most of the moves which have been taken by the Government. 
Of course, he was talking in relation to the withdrawal of assistance to primary industry. 
Let us look at the list of assistance that has been withdrawn. The dollar revaluation of  Vh  per cent, a further revaluation in 1973 and an effective appreciation of our currency when the Japanese yen was devalued in January 1974 brought the total change in the value of our dollar to about 25 per cent. It is impossible to calculate the effect of this change. On 22 July 1 973 the Government phased out the butter and cheese bounties over 2 years. What effect did that have? Then a little later, we had the discontinuation of immediate taxation deductibility of certain capital expenditure. How many farmers would not have capital expenditure? We also had the discontinuation of the double deduction of expenditure on clearing and development of land. There was a discontinuation of the investment allowance and of annual taxation deductibility for a wide range of capital expenditures including internal fencing, the provision of water and storage for feed and all those sorts of things. There was a reduction in the distance for the free wiring of telephone lines. We also saw the introduction of the meat export levy. We heard about that tonight when we were debating the States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill. We have seen the introduction of the levy of 0.6c per lb on shipped weights of exports of meat to recoup expenditure on research. There have been increases in petrol prices in non- metropolitan areas from 3.3c a gallon to 5c a gallon. 
-Of course it is. Then, we come to one very important matter, the withdrawal of the free milk for school children. The Government would take lollies from a baby. There has been an increase of interest rates charged by trading banks. There are quite a number of other things that I could mention that the Labor Government has done to hurt primary production. But the estimated cost to the rural sector for the withdrawal of such benefits is close to $500m. This figure does not include the imposition of unearned income and capital gains taxes and the reduced education allowance for taxation purposes. The devaluation of the Australian dollar by 12 per cent in December 1974 compensates little for the earlier upward revaluations. Time has caught up with me. There are many other things I could say to show how rural producers, particularly the dairy farmers, have been caught up in a poor economic situation. They have had to weather all sorts of storms. I hope the Corporation does do a job of real value to the dairy farmers within the community of Australia. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: Has the Government given consideration to the proposals in connection with the new Postal Commission to alter the title of non-official post offices to postal agents? If the changes are made, will the present rights and privileges be retained to protect the non-official postmaster, and will his duties remain the same? 
-This Bill is to amend the Crimes Act 1914-1973 for the purposes of the protection of the property of certain organisations. I could not think of anything that would be more important than the protection of the property of people or organisations. The Act, of course, is cited as the Crimes Act 1914-1973. If it is amended by this Bill it may then be cited as the Crimes Act 1914-1975. It shall come into operation on the day that it receives royal assent. 
I commend the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  for disclosing some aspects of the Sweeney report. I think that while it may have been ruled that that report is perhaps irrelevant to this particular part of the debate, it has certainly disclosed the necessity for the implementation of such legislation. This Bill will make it possible to bring to justice people who commit crimes against their own unions or organisations but who, at the moment, are outside the authority of State jurisdiction. The Bill, I believe, is adequate for dealing with persons who have misappropriated union funds, particularly those in authority as officers or members of an organisation upon trust. I refer to the unions which are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is; therefore, appropriate that provision be made by this Parliament for such offences, which I believe are associated only with the lowest form of human beings, to be dealt with. 
Section 71 of the Crimes Act 1914-1973 is the pattern used for the drafting of this legislation and should be adequate in bringing to justice all persons who commit such offences. The Government is endeavouring, I believe, to remedy a situation which has caused concern for some time for so many unions and so many organisations which have been the victims of stealth and misappropriation over the years. The amendment which will be moved by the Opposition will help to rectify and will help to fill in the gaps which we believe still exist in this legislation. I commend this Bill to the House. 
I do not wish to appear to be discourteous after what has been said but perhaps honourable members may have thought that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was going to retire undefeated. In this Parliament on 27 September 1973 I proposed by way of a private member's motion, which was carried, that the Australian Government and the Victorian Government get together to plan the use of our natural resources of brown coal. This objective could be achieved by way of a carefully planned program and feasibility studies into the establishment of a national project for the production of oil from coal. My request was for the Australian Government to co-operate and to assist the Victorian Government to bring this about. That move was made 2 years ago during which time the only activity of any consequence has been in Victoria. But let that not be a criticism to any great degree of the Austraiian Government because there are some real reservations on the part of the Victorian Government about the possibility of a Connor takeover. With the great earnestness that our Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  may have to carry out such an exercise- I am pleased that he is sitting in the chamber tonight- there would be no possibility of his doing so because of the proprietary rights which are Victoria's over the La Trobe Valley coal, and I think that the Minister might agree with me on that point. 
In my earnestness to have this national project and national necessity become a reality I asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy a number of questions about this matter. Because of the information that I had acquired about the process of getting oil from coal, I made a private trip overseas to West Germany and to the German Democratic Republic. My trip has widened my vision and confirmed the points of view that I held. Obtaining oil from coal is part of a total energy concept in the German Democratic Republic. There are great opportunities for Australia to become self sufficient or independent producers of the oil which we badly need if our Federal and State governments co-operate and come together in a genuine and mutual arrangement. They could quickly put together all the available technical knowledge that is known to Germany and to Australia and the financial resources could be coopted to finance the project. 
Without authority I proposed to the Minister of Science and Technology and to the Foreign Minister in the German Democratic Republic that it might be possible to form a consortium. This is being considered by the German Democratic Republic. Its contribution could be the provision of machinery and know-how. I advise this course as a matter of urgency because apart from the fact that a properly financed oil from coal project can be a viable proposition in itself, it opens up great opportunities for trade. The German Democratic Republic is anxious to be a successful tenderer for the provision of the equipment and technical know-how. It made this quite plain and quite clear to me in my discussions with several of its Ministers during my visit there. 
I want this House and this Government to know that as a private member of this Parliament I was welcomed into serious discussions on the oil from coal requirement's, and I promised to tell this Parliament of the discussions and of the goodwill which was generated because of the frankness of the discussions. As I was eager to encourage trade - on a reciprocal basis I had with me the Australian Trade Commissioner in East Berlin,  Dr John  Morey. I want to say here that Australia is fortunate in having a man of the quality and high integrity of this officer negotiating in every available avenue of trade. The purpose of my address to this Parliament is to alert the Government of the fact that there are great opportunities for developing potential trade. Obtaining oil from coal presents one very real avenue. The keenness of the Ministers of the German Democratic Republic to trade was kindled, but it was equally matched by 
John Morey and myself to make it reciprocal trade. I pressed the German Democratic Republic to consider taking some of the great quantities of beef which are available in Australia, as well as our minerals. If by any chance this Government were objective enough to offer financial assistance to Victoria to get the oil project off the ground, these are some of the trading opportunities which could be successfully negotiated. 
Whilst I was in the German Democratic Republic I was hosted as an official representative of this Parliament. I was given every courtesy and every opportunity to see for myself the process of a total energy concept. I believe that as a private member and as a back bench member of the Opposition I have done my part in continuing to foster interest in the production of oil from coal. I believe that it is the responsibility of the Australian Government and of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to offer to assist the Victorian Government either by way of a direct financial grant or as a partner in a consortium to get this national project to a stage where the Victorian Government can negotiate with the suppliers for the necessary machinery and technical know-how. 
If the Minister for Minerals and Energy wants to see Australia independent of imported oils and totally capable of producing the heavy oil now required for refinery processes he should heed what I am saying. I have told the House before that Australia will be in a precarious position in the event of any aggression. If we were realistic we would see that this proposition as pan of our defence effort. I appeal to the Government to realise the importance of trading opportunities which should be fostered between countries. We cannot afford to close our eyes to the opportunities which are available to us. 
I can do no more than genuinely and seriously request that as a Federal Government, we assist Victoria to launch this oil from coal project so that our trade commissioners throughout the world can seize the opportunity to use that in trade negotiations. If anyone doubts my ability to present the facts to prove my argument, then let me say this. I have seen oU produced from coal. I have seen the different methods by which it can be produced. I have seen the residual by-products and the importance of them. Australia would be a very independent and self-sufficient country if she embarked upon the project. I hope that I shall see some positive moves before our opportunities are lost to us and our trade potential with it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In this Budget debate I have the privilege to be the first  speaker  for the National Country Party and I want to congratulate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the very comprehensive and constructive approach which he made in his contribution to the debate. Australia is at present showing all the symptoms of the English disease. We had hoped that the disease would have been checked by the presentation of the 1 975-76 Budget, but the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  stood firm on the socialist course which will now allow the disease to progress with no cure or end in sight except an authoritarian state. The symptoms of the English disease are runaway inflation, poor productivity, unemployment, chronic industrial strife, the progressive expansion of government, the progressive strangulation of the private sector and private enterprise, and heavier and heavier taxes. How familiar those terms are to us since Australia gained a socialist Government. 
I said that they were the symptoms of the English disease. Anyone would know that they are now the Australian disease, which this socialist Budget will only make much worse and which could eventually kill Australian enterprise. The cure of the disease lies in revitalising the attitudes of employers and employees, to give incentives, to encourage the decent, responsible majority of people towards self-respect, good workmanship and self-dependence, with less dependence on government. But of course it is the hope of this socialist Government that we will all become dependent on the Government. God help us if we ever submit to that totalitarian state. What we need is acceptance of the need for reasonable profits and productivity as well as the immediate reduction in the expenses of the government sector or the public sector. 
This Budget has been designed to hoodwink the Australian public. They will get a real shock when the realities of it become clear. The Budget has been formulated without common sense and without any sign that the Treasurer or the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has any business management or economic knowhow. The lack of business understanding has been demonstrated clearly by many Ministers of this Government. The policies designed to kill private enterprise have readily been agreed to by the Cabinet. The decision to flood Australia with imported goods was disastrous for the manufacturers. Policies to rectify that were propagandised through every available medium. Promises of financial assistance did not eventuate, except in some conspicuous circumstances, but mostly the assistance was almost at the point of being paid when the company which had been hanging on the brink of a financial precipice let go and disappeared from our productive sector into oblivion. 
I ask you  Mr Deputy Speaker  Would any responsible government with any business sense at all allow the productive sector of its industrial enterprise to die? Of course it would not. But what do we see in this Budget by way of incentive assistance or recognition of the role of the private sector? We see a  2Vi  per cent reduction in company tax. It will not create a ripple. How ridiculous it is! During the life of this Government I have seen business after business fold up under the economic pressures created by destructive Government policies. Any member of Parliament who could stand idly by and watch private enterprise collapse would not be human. He would not be in his right mind if he accepted the statement of the Treasurer when he commenced to present his famous Budget by stating naively 'that there were signs that the private sector was recovering'. What absurdity! He ought to come up to my electorate and say that to the chambers of commerce and manufacturing industries there. It is not bad management that is crippling the industries in my electorate and causing them to lay off hundreds of workers; it is bad economic policies by an incompetent Government. The Treasurer and the Prime Minister know very well that the symptoms of the English disease are well established. They are those symptoms which I described earlier as the scourge of our Australian society. 
What we expected in the Budget was some consolidation and restraint of Government spending. The bureaucratic force is now like an enlarged heart in a diseased body- too big for the weakened body to respond to, pumping blood to everywhere but the right place and certainly not the brain. Sure, the Treasurer gallantly championed the private sector. He said that he now recognises the chaotic situation in which it finds itself- What a shallow statement that is. It is like holding out one's finger for a calf to suck. The poor creature gets nothing for its trouble. Fancy acknowledging the value of private enterprise and not offering some incentive assistance to succour it and keep it viable. I venture to say that private enterprise industries today have demonstrated that they are the greatest bulwark against socialism and totalitarism hence this Government's complete disregard for their survival. 
I expected the Prime Minister to be a little apprehensive of his position and, as a last chance to rescue Australia from serious economic trouble, even if it meant a setback in the socialisation process, to present a budget of restraint and purpose. Instead he and the Treasurer have produced a budget that amounts to a cruel deception, because unfortunately it is the average working Australian and private enterprise who will suffer the most. When all the window dressing and the Prime Minister's froth and bubble have disappeared, Australians will realise that they will be paying 34 per cent more taxation, the Government will be spending 23 per cent more than last year and we will be paying $950m more in indirect taxation. 
Nowhere is there any real encouragement to reduce unemployment. For instance, private industry employs 75 per cent of the Australian work force, or it did; yet government assistance or encouragement to help pull industry out of its worse recession since the depression amounts to less than one-seventh of the total cost of Medibank. Certainly the Government has given some relief to a small section of the work force, particularly those in the low income range, but this relief is immediately taken away in heavy indirect taxation. Of course we must not make the mistake the Government is hoping we will make of not relating to this Budget the increase in postal charges and telephone rentals and charges, along with so many other day to day living costs that inevitably must rise as a result of this swindling Budget. 
The Treasurer's claim that in this Budget he has reduced income tax is not merely misleading; it is the direct opposite of the truth. Not only has he budgeted for an increase in total pay as you earn receipts; he has budgeted also for a sharp increase in the average rate of tax. To illustrate that, in 1972-73 the pay as you earn take as a percentage of wages and salaries was 14.1 per cent, but in 1975-76 it will be 19.8 per cent. The Treasurer is thus budgeting this year not only for an extra $2,6 12m in pay as you earn tax but also for the most savage increase in average tax rates which has ever been experienced in Australia outside war emergency. Yet he boasted that he has eased the income tax burden. Just how has this fiddle been worked? Basically the Treasurer has resorted to 2 tricks. First he has continued to exploit inflation, which increases money wages without increasing their purchasing power. The Budget papers reveal that he expects wages to rise by 22 per cent, edging taxpayers into higher tax brackets. He has not adjusted his income tax rates accordingly. It is essential that tax rates should be made subject to indexation. In these times of inflation anything less than this is unfair to the taxpayer. Secondly, he has fiddled the new tax rebates. He quotes tax payable after deducting the universal $540 rebate and compares it with the previous tax on income before the concessional deductions. 
It is only fair to mention that the Budget now absorbs some of the payments previously made to health insurance funds. This can be put against part of the increase in income tax, but it can only account for a small part of the increase. Again an argument can be made out for some of the adjustments made by the new rebate system of tax assessment, but against this the new system introduces some new inequities and some quite dangerous features. For example, the Budget takes what can only be described as an underhand sideswipe at all life assurance and independent schools. It does this by giving to most taxpayers the same treatment, whether or not they have life assurance policies or pay school fees. In this way people are to be financially discouraged from looking after themselves. The long term consequences of this favouring of improvidence could be very serious indeed. It is hard to believe that this is not a policy deliberately framed by a socialist government for the purpose of socialisation. 
Let me turn to the small businesses. I take up the cause of the thousands of men and women who work for themselves in small businesses like the corner shop, the garage, the family farm and so on, and the people who work for and with them. These men and women are the great productive strength of Australia. They provide the goods and services that keep the nation moving. They provide jobs for 42 per cent of Australians. In other words, almost half of our nation's work force is employed by small one-man and family business operations. 
-Private industry, private enterprise and initiative. These businesses are the backbone of Australia's private enterprise system. They provide the economic base for most country cities and towns across the nation. Yet the Federal Government systematically has dismantled the means of economic support for these small businesses. Consequently, owing to inflation and the Government's destructive economic policies, 200 000 small businesses across Australia today face severe economic hardship. A master plan is being developed by socialists and socialising forces within the Government for a well-organised socialist system which dismantles private enterprise and smaller businesses because they are the hardest to control of all national enterprises under a socialist state. The Federal Government's economic mismanagement is seriously damaging small businesses. Experts are not overlooking the proposition that the Federal Government's reluctance to help small businesses fits in with Labor and socialist philosophies of undermining the entire private enterprise system. 
Now let me turn to another of the most notorious swindles ever put over on Australian municipalities. I could name a number of other swindles, but let me take the Regional Employment Development scheme and leave aside the regionalisation blackmail for the time being. In a recent survey I made of my municipalities I found some of the grossest injustices ever committed on rural communities- the RED scheme. What did it do for municipalities? There were some glaring inconsistencies and some glaring anomalies in a society labouring under the difficulties of an economic recession. Does the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  realise that within one electorate there were some shires which did not get one allocation of RED money and yet the Commonwealth Employment Service office covered several who did. Who foots the bill for all the additional administrative costs in preparing the specifications of the plans for approval under the RED scheme? In many cases architects had to be employed and engineers had to increase their staff for the preparation of the plans in time for consideration. In my own shire I have served as a councillor so I know from experience the work involved over and above the normal shire day to day activities. 
The shire of Warragul submitted 7 projects, all in the interests of the community's benefit, all properly costed, specified and architecturally designed to an estimated cost of $348,000. There were no approvals. The criteria of the unemployment were not sufficient, but nobody could convince the Minister and his Department that many of the retrenched work force were of highly skilled trades and returned to the metropolitan area or to other States whence they came. They could not wait around for the Government to see the wood through the trees. So the statement 'not sufficient unemployed' blocked all those projects in an electorate whose neighbours did enjoy some approvals but where the economic climate was identical. So the Warragul ratepayers will have to foot the bill for all the additional preparation and planning costs of the projects not approved. 
The same story can be told of the Buln Buln and Bass shires. It is a disgrace and an indictment of this socialist Government and its Ministers. In the shire of Korumburra 10 projects were submitted at a total cost of $362,000. There were 4 projects approved at a total cost of $59,000. The cost of one project was later reduced by a quarter of the amount approved, and to date the shire has received only $7,000 towards the $59,000 promised. 

 Mr HEWSON They are not paying it. In this case I am appealing for reason and common sense to be applied; otherwise this will be another shire where the ratepayers again will have to foot the bill. The whole scheme has been designed to keep the community on a course of expectancy but not to give money. It has been deceitful and it is a fraud. I could go on. Some municipalities have had no money; others have had some of the projects nearly completed and there is uncertainty as to whether the money will be forthcoming to complete them. 
I was hopeful that some measures would be taken to create productivity, to create employment and gradually to reduce the inflationary pressures on the economy. The beef industry should have received some real consideration, not a continuation of the high interest money which is beyond its capacity to accept. The beef levy ought to have been abandoned and there should be a royal commission into the industry. This Budget has no place in a private enterprise country because it is a socialist measure and will inflame the chronic disease now besetting Australia. The deficit funding of the Budget is something which causes great concern. Last year the deficit was estimated to be $5 80m. It finished up at something like $2, 800m. 
-$2,800m. The figure is so incredible that one has to stop and look at it because when one says it from memory it sounds too big. This situation has been brought about by the incompetence of the Government which works on an elastic type of estimate so that it wants to please people it can pull something out of the bag. It does not matter to the Government whether the deficit is $5 80m or $2,800m. The Government proposes a deficit of $2,800m this year; so what can we expect next year? 
Of course. I think I have said sufficient to convince this House that this Budget should be rejected. I support the amendment so ably moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the' House condemns the Budget because it does not provide an adequate program to defeat inflation and relieve unemployment nor does it restore confidence in the private sector of the economy'. 
-From the rantings and the antics of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who has just resumed his seat, it would appear that he is one of the old Labor spruikers. I rise in support of my colleague the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  in this debate on this matter of public importance- the lack of employment opportunities for school leavers and others seeking to enter the work force at the end of 1975. Bringing on this debate is no act of cynicism on our part, as it was described by the Minister. The Minister said he was disappointed because we of the Opposition are not going to tell him how to run this country. You cannot teach an old dog new tricks. In the 10 minutes that I have in which to speak I will not have time to present all my facts of criticism, let alone get his Government off the hook. When the people put us into government we will fix the situation with positive and progressive policies. 
This Government has proved beyond doubt that it is an unemployment party. The school leavers are witnesses to a government that has wrecked the Australian economy and has refused to accept the guidelines of successful predecessors in government. When this socialist Labor Government came to office in 1972 the unemployment level was running at about 80 000 to 100 000. 
-It is about 300 000. Inflation was running at about 4.5 per cent. In less than 3 years unemployment has more than trebled and inflation has multiplied 5 times at least. 
-Yes, in fact exactly 5 times. Where do the school leavers fit into this picture? I am afraid that it is a very sorry story we have to tell. It is a story which proves that this socialist Government, like all socialist governments, does not care. Should any honourable member want to challenge that statement, let me qualify what I am saying. By its record the Whitlam Government has proved that its socialist policies have been deliberately designed to create within our communities a dependence upon government. What better way to create that dependency than to kill initiative. Let us consider how it set about killing initiative. The Government allowed inflation to escalate with drastic consequences to private enterprise but with beneficial results for the 
Government in that it was able to supplement its handout policies. The Government allowed, aided and abetted the unions to make increasing demands for higher and higher wages and shorter working hours. It lifted the tariff barriers with devastating results for the textile industries. How the hell could the private enterprise industries survive under such a government-backed onslaught? 
This has created no opportunities for school leavers to become absorbed into the Australian work force. Again the aim appears to be to give the school leaver very little choice but plenty of opportunity to educate himself or herself for a future of dependency on government. Because of a lack of job opportunities, particularly in the country centres, and the Government's desire to kill private enterprise the apprenticeship position is now in grave jeopardy. Apprenticeship opportunities are now denied to school leavers. Surviving private industry, particularly in the country areas, which employs about 70 per cent of the work force cannot offer apprenticeships because it is now working with skeleton staffs. The activities of private industry in the field of research and experiment in order to promote opportunities for further industrial development have ceased. The future of school leavers looks very gloomy indeed. They can show some initiative in learning how to live idle lives. An apprentice has an opportunity to learn about the retraining scheme or how to apply for the dole. If that is not killing a race of intelligent youth, I do not know what is. 
This Government certainly has proved that it is an unemployment party. It has pursued a policy of deliberately putting people out of work. This Government does not care. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  clearly does not care. He has not given a positive reply, except to say no, to any problem or anomaly caused by the mistakes of his Department. I could illustrate the situation by referring to a couple of glaring cases which I have taken to him in recent times. As soon as he won the top position on the New South Wales ballot paper he dropped all interest in the political consequences of unemployment. 
-That is right, top of the list. It would appear that he used the knife on the Budget expenditure to behead the school leavers in the work force. He is not worried about the difficulties of the school leaver. As a Minister in a government of what has been termed 'the unemployment Party' he is maintaining the consistency of his Government which has succeeded in putting out of work- in seasonally adjusted terms- 300 000 people, which is over 5 per cent of the Australian work force. The Government has withdrawn the Regional Employment Development scheme when unemployment is the highest since the 1930s depression. The cutting back of expenditure in the Budget has attacked only the work force. Has the Government run out of money? Has it gone broke? What a cruel, callous government, a government that can accept the fact that nearly 400 000 school leavers will be on the labour market in 10 weeks and face the prospect of unemployment? The Government is saying to the school leavers, the university graduates and the technical institute graduates: 'We are not going to alter our Budget strategy. We know that there will be 400 000 or more people out of work in January or February. We are not going to restore the RED scheme. We believe we are right You can all go to hell'. What a shocking indictment against the Australian Labor Party, a party that has always claimed to represent the worker, a party that claims to care for the average little man. 
The Budget will not restore confidence in the private sector, the sector that employs oyer 70 per cent of the working people. It is now a well known fact that the Labor Government's Budget has also sown the seeds of destruction for thousands of small businessmen, farmers and others involved in small industries throughout Australia. They are the little people whom the ALP once cared about but is now destroying. There is no section more seriously hurt than the small business sector which is fully Australian owned, which employs fewer than 100 people in each business and which will go to the wall under this Government and its Budget. As my colleagues alongside me say, this is deliberate. The shattering results of a recent survey show that two-thirds of the businesses are in danger of collapse and bankruptcy in the next 12 months.. If these projections are correct somewhere between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of the Australian work force are about to face unemployment. If the survey is only half right there will be a 10 per cent to 15 per cent unemployment level, which represents a shocking and horrible indictment of the Labor Party's pursuit of its doctrinaire socialist philosophy. 
Since this Government has been in power more than 3000 of these small businesses have already gone broke and thousands are hanging on by their fingernails hoping for a change of government so that the private sector can again begin to plan with confidence. What hope has the school leaver in the work force in this predicament? I suggest that it is worth repeating what the Prime Minister said when he was the Leader of the Opposition, when he was leading that great Party of his to the 1 972 election: 
Do you believe that Australia can afford another 3 years like the last 20 months? Are you prepared to maintain at the head of your affairs a coalition which has lurched into crisis after crisis, embarrassment piled upon embarrassment week after week? Will you accept another 3 years of waiting for next week's crisis, next week's blunder? Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately, but needlessly, created Australia's worst unemployment for 10 years? Or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
If the position at that time was the worst for 10 years, it has been multiplied more than threefold since this Government took power. 
-The Prime Minister said that and that is an indictment on any Prime Minister and any Labor government. 
I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate tonight on the Legal Aid Bill. I believe that the attitude of the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder),  who just resumed his seat, was more statesmanlike than that of his predecessor on the Government side, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  I was somewhat intrigued by the outburst of the honourable member for Melbourne about the legal profession. He described its members as half smart lawyers, smart alec solicitors, hawks and vultures living on the innocent, the crooks, the poor and the underprivileged. What a mixed up individual the honourable member must be. If ever a man made a fool of himself it was the honourable member for Melbourne. He does not know how soon he will need a lawyer and after that outburst he will have little hope if he ever wants one. 
-I realise that. He is like many of his mates on the Government side. When they are required to debate a Bill of great importance that they have no intention of altering they resort to innuendoes, abuse and denigration. 
-No, I certainly would not. This BUI deserves reasoned debate; it does not deserve to be clobbered with abuse. Properly drafted and implemented this Bill would serve the underprivileged of Australia and would be of great importance. I believe that much goodwill will come from a comprehensive debate on this Legal Aid BUI. In answer to a question this morning the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  rather intrigued me because he made a very disparaging remark about his own profession when he said, and I hope I quote him correctly, that the vast majority of people who go into Australian Legal Aid Offices do not like the aura of solicitor's offices and the things that surround them. He dared to denigrate his own profession in order to make himself appear to be someone beyond reproach. I well imagine that the reverse would be nearer the truth and could well be the case. Perhaps I am the one who should show some allergy to the legal profession as 2 of its members have been endorsed, one for the Liberal Party and one for the Labor Party, to stand against me. 
-I thank the honourable member. I am assured by his confidence. 
-That is another thing that does not really worry me either. 
