I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring into operation for repatriation service pensioners the election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that the Government would introduce legislation providing increased pensions for married means test pensioners who lose the economies of living together because of failing health. The specific proposal is that, where pensions are now paid at married rates to each of such a married pensioner couple, each will receive pension at the standard rate after the passage of this legislation. The Bill makes the same provision for Service pensioners as is made for age and invalid pensioners in the Social Services Bill introduced by my colleague the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
Honourable members will know that an eligible ex-serviceman or woman who is single, widowed or divorced may receive a Service pension at the standard rate, namely $15 per week, which is higher than the married rate - currently $13.25 per week - payable to each of a married pensioner couple. The higher rate for single people recognises their special needs as compared with married pensioners who, because they live together and are able to share common expenses, are in a relatively better situation. It must be accepted, however, that the position of married couples who, because of illness for example, must give up normal domestic living to be cared for in a nursing home is often the same as that of single pensioners. The Bill1 gives practical recognition to this fact. 
Clause 3 of the Bill therefore provides that where a repatriation board is satisfied that a pensioner husband and wife cannot live together in a matrimonial home because of the illness or infirmity of either or both of them, and these circumstances are likely to continue indefinitely, the Service pension may be granted at the standard rate. 
Under the Repatriation Act a repatriation board is the primary independent determining authority concerned with the determination of claims. It is for that reason that the power of determination in these instances is given to a board.. It will exercise the power in relation to Service pensioners which is exercised by the Director-General of Social Services in relation to age and invalid pensioners. Under the Social Services Act the Director-General has a general power to review a determination whenever it appears to him that sufficient reason exists for doing so, and upon review he may affirm, vary or annul it. Clause 3 of the Repatriation Bill gives a similar review power to a repatriation board in relation to the circumstances of married pensioner couples who may be eligible for the standard rate. 
The Bill also provides in clause 4 that couples who benefit from the amendment I have outlined may, subject to their means, also receive supplementary assistance, often known as 'rent allowance'. It will be recalled that in 1968 the Government amended the Repatriation Act to provide that, where one of a married pensioner couple dies, the surviving pensioner receives for 6 fortnights the amount of pension that would have been payable to the couple jointly. The Bill provides that this benefit will continue to be paid on the basis of the married rate. 
The Bill also provides for the appropriation of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary for the purposes of the Bill. It is proposed in accordance with the usual practice that the increases in pension rates provided by the Bill will come into operation on the payday following royal assent. The measures I have outlined represent a further development in the Government's provision for the needs of means test pensioners and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am sure all honourable members feel sympathetically towards this gentleman, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  does, but I am not aware of the details of the case. Most members will know that there is a system under which these claims are investigated. The basis of the system is a study of the medical and other evidence brought before the various determining authorities, namely, the Repatriation Board Commission and then, if necessary, the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. It might interest the House to know that all the members of these determining authorities at this moment are all returned servicemen. It would, therefore, be fair comment to say that they would have a sympathetic outlook and an understanding of the service conditions under which this gentleman served. They are duty bound to give the serviceman - the appellant or the claimant - the benefit of the doubt under section 47 of the Repatriation Act. Many people complain that the Repatriation Department is too lenient. However, the duty of these three bodies is to give the serviceman the benefit of the doubt as to whether their condition is due to war service. 
Having given a broad outline of the general administrative setup of the Department I say to the honourable member that I certainly will have a look at the case and we will do everything within our power - I can assure him of this - to make sure that if this ex-serviceman does undergo a medical examination he will not have difficulty in being transported anywhere for such an examination. I give an assurance to the honourable member that we will look at this case tomorrow and then I will have further discussions with him about it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  third  time. 
I would like to comment briefly on two matters. I can assure honourable members that the word 'indefinitely' in the context mentioned in my second reading speech will be interpreted in the most flexible and generous way possible. I think the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised this matter during his speech. There is no precise definition of the word indefinitely', but it indicates illness or infirmity on which no definite duration can be placed. As I have said, the word will be interpreted in the most flexible and generous way possible. In regard to the matter raised by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  he can rest assured that cases of chronic illness will receive careful consideration by the Repatriation Department in the future. I should mention that the Department does accept responsibility for chronic disabilities where those disabilities have been accepted as being due to war service or caused by war service. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
In reply to the honourable member for Wimmera, who I have discovered takes a very active interest in the affairs and administration of the Repatriation Department- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The exact number of survivors in each category is not known and the exact average age in each category therefore cannot be stated. However, on the best information available, it is estimated that the information requested is as follows: 
Boer War survivors - 286 - average age 88.8 years 
World War I survivors- 79,300- average age 75.4 years; 
World War II survivors - '714,000 average age 52.8 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The numbers of ex-servicemen and women receiving repatriation assistance are recorded in each State but are not related to electoral divisions. I regret, therefore, that it is impracticable to obtain the information sought by the honourable member. 
I am generally aware of the population studies to which the honourable member refers. 
I have not previously considered establishment of a regional office of-  the Repatriation 
Department in the electoral division of Robertson and see no present justification for one. The centrally-located Newcastle regional office is considered adequate for the needs of the region that includes the Robertson electorate, and regular visits are made to several towns in the area by officers of the Repatriation Department However, the honourable member may be sure that the adequacy of current arrangements will be reviewed periodically with a view to ensuring provision of the best possible service to the ex-service community in the area. 
Papua and New Guinea: Conditions on Vessels  (Question No. 889) 
I do not have the facts regarding the local repatriation committees at my disposal. I will certainly check on their authority to assist ex-servicemen from Vietnam. The honourable member can rest assured that if any restriction is placed on these committees it will certainly be removed as it relates to the men who have served in Vietnam, if that is possible within the Government's general policy. 
The honourable member can rest assured that this matter will be receiving a top priority from myself and my Department when we are considering submissions for the Budget. 
The matter which the honourable member for Mallee raises has been the subject of a number of representations from various individuals and also from ex-servicemen's organisations. I mention that a great number of the 1914-18 returned servicemen are already catered for within the repatriation system. They either have disabilities which are accepted as being due to war service or they are in receipt of a service pension, which indicates that they are somewhat needy people. They have available to them hospital and medical treatment through the system. However, having said that, I can assure the honourable member that, even though one of the basic reasons for the Repatriation Department's existence is to assist people who have suffered disabilities because of war service, I will certainly be taking the matter he raises into account during the Budget discussions. 
I do not purport to have ?n expert knowledge of the effects that the opening of the new kitchen at the Heidelberg Hospital - at which ceremony, I might say, I was pleased to be accompanied by the honourable member - will have on the availability of beds there, but I do not think it will have any effect at all. The proposed multi-storey block to house operating theatres and other paramedical facilities will not be established for some considerable time and therefore will not affect the present bed shortage at the hospital. The reason why all available beds are not occupied now is the shortage of nursing staff. This matter is receiving the constant attention of the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in Victoria and all other senior members of the staff who are responsible for attracting nurses and other staff to the hospital. The honourable member can rest assured that the Department will continue to make all efforts possible to overcome this shortage and to make more beds available as soon as possible. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) As at 15lh April 1970 the position was as follows: 
I stand by every word 1 said in the speech I made at the opening of the Queensland RSL conference at Maryborough on Monday. Whilst the honourable member for Dawson may be understandably upset by what I said and may think that my speech was irresponsible, from the comments I heard after I made this speech it appeared that the Queensland State conference of the RSL did not think my comments were irresponsible. 
 Mr Speaker,  the honourable member for Riverina did not pay me the courtesy of telling me that he was going to make his statement this morning. 
As 1 said, he did not have the courtesy to tell me he was going to make or try to make this statement this morning. Therefore, I do not have at my hand various pieces of factual information and also statements that have been made by the honourable member for Riverina who has been misleading the public ever since he has been in this House. 1 do not have right here the factual documents and written statements in relation to the honourable member for Riverina. 
The relevant sentence regarding accuracy that the honourable member from Riverina read from the letter was written by me in a considered manner and taking into account the statements on many subjects that the honourable member for Riverina has made since he has been in this House- 
lt has been my considered judgment, after listening to some of the honourable member's speeches and reading quite a few of them, that he either intentionally or unintentionally has misled the people of Riverina and the people of Australia from time to time and this has been for political purposes. 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  members of the Opposition are interjecting continually in a very offensive manner. There are so many comments being made that I perhaps ought to have the chance to answer them. But, I do not want to take up the time of the House at this stage when so much business remains to be transacted. The honourable member for Riverina,  Mr Speaker,  has left it to the very last day to raise this matter although this letter was written some time ago.  Mr Speaker,  I conclude by saying that 1 affirm my comment in the letter that in my judgment, from the actions of the honourable member for Riverina since he has been in this House, his credibility is definitely at question- 
I was going to qualify my statement when I was interrupted by overwhelming interjections- 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  in view of the whole circumstances of the House and in view of your request, I with' draw the remark. 
I conclude by saying - 1 will not reflect on the credibility of the honourable member for Riverina again because when I did,  Mr Speaker,  you asked me to withdraw the remark and I did. It may be that the explanation for many of the comments that the honourable member for Riverina has made both inside and outside the House is that he does not have the intelligence to be able to assemble the facts. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) The figures required by the honourable member are as follows: 
The answers to the  honourable  member's questions are as follows: 
Gordon House supplies cheap accommodation to many homeless men, and it is estimated that, usually about 20% of them are ex-servicemen. 
The dormitory section was closed in April and the rest of the building is to be closed by 30th June. 
No statistics are kept, but very few patients are referred to Gordon House on discharge from hospital, accommodation there being usually arranged by Hanover Centre (a counselling centre for homeless men) or by the patients themselves. 
Five, of whom three obtained financial aid from the Repatriation Department and two were in full employment. 
What additional help may be sought from the Department is bard to predict but, on the basis of past experience of referrals to and by the Department, it is expected that there will be no significant increase in requests for help in obtaining accommodation. 
The Department will continue to help where possible cases that come to notice, but no special plans have been made in expectation of an increased demand for assistance. 
As far as is known, no hostels or boardinghouses in Melbourne cater specially for homeless ex-servicemen. 
It may be of interest to the honourable member that social workers of the Repatriation Department have been attending inter-agency discussions arranged by the Hanover Centre with a view to finding an alternative to Gordon House, a community problem of which welfare agencies in general are well aware. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information required by the honourable member is tabulated below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Except as indicated in the answer to the third and fourth parts of the honourable member's question, advice and assistance about employment ls provided to Vietnam veterans and to other members of the Armed Forces on the same basis. 
Information I have received in response to direct inquiries of the relevant Service Departments reveals that Navy, Army and Air Force establishments provide for units to have on strengths Resettlement Officers whose particular responsibility it is to be fully conversant with the procedures for re-settling regular servicemen, and re-establishing National Servicemen, in civil life. 
During their service regular servicemen are encouraged to undertake vocational training under the Services Vocational and Educational Training Scheme to enable them to adapt to civil occupations, and are counselled by their unit Resettlement Officers about employment prospects. In addition, the Department of Labour and National Service has a Permanent Forces Resettlement Officer In each capital city to advise regular servicemen about employment, and help them obtain suitable employment through the Commonwealth Employment Service when necessary. 
National Servicemen are interviewed by officers of the Army and of the Department of Labour and National Service before discharge. They are notified of the full range of re-establishment benefits available to them as National Servicemen and have available the facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service to help them obtain suitable employment on discharge if they are not returning to the employment in which they were engaged before call-up. 
Although there is no standard academic or other qualification for appointment as unit Resettlement Officer, it is common for Education or Instructor Officers, many of graduate status, to occupy such positions. 
and (4) Vocational counselling is not normally a function of the Repatriation Department, but of the Department of Labour and National Service. If necessary, ex-servicemen may be referred to the Vocational Guidance Section of the Department of Labour and National Service, staffed by qualified psychologists with special training in vocational guidance. However, for exservicemen receiving treatment for incapacities due to war service (including Vietnam service), or who are eligible under the Repatriation Department's Scheme for ex-servicemen unable to follow a former occupation because of a war disability, vocational training is provided by that Department as part of the rehabilitation programme and, where appropriate, Repatriation Department psychologists are available to advise on vocations and training. 
 There is not much I can add to what the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  most graciously said. The facts of the case, as he briefly outlined them, are quite correct.  1  must admit that when the honourable member raised this case, during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, it certainly made one feel concerned and worried about the condition of  Mr Medlyn.  I want to express my appreciation to the honourable member for Grayndler for the kind words he said about my interest in the case and also that of the Repatriation Department. I know that the result gives the honourable member a great deal of personal satisfaction, as it would any honourable member who took up the cudgels on behalf of a person who he thought was not receiving a fair deal. I know every honourable member feels the same way when a case looks as though it is finished, is hopeless and final but then finds that the desired result is achieved. 
I want to thank the honourable member for his co-operation throughout the investigation of this matter. A lot of time was spent on it. I am sure that  Mr Medlyn  and his family greatly appreciate the honourable member's persistence and determination in pressing their case. The honourable member fought this case on their behalf for a very long time but he now has a very satisfying reward for his long struggle. That is all I wish to say on behalf of the Repatriation Department in relation to the Medlyn case. 
1.11.52]  -  1 move: 
That the Hill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's Budget proposals in the repatriation war compensation field. This Bill now before the House provides for higher war compensation payments by way of increases in the rates of pension for totally and permanently incapacitated exservicemen and those ex-servicemen who, because of the severity of their war-caused disabilities, receive payments equal to the TPI rate, namely, the war-blinded, those temporarily totally incapacitated, those receiving the special rate of war pension for tuberculosis, and the severely incapacitated double amputees who receive additional amounts under the Fifth Schedule. It provides also for increases in the intermediate rate payable to those whose incapacity allows them to work only part-time or intermittently. There are also increases in payments to war widows and war orphans and in the special compensation allowance. In addition, the Bill makes essential changes which will enable additional Repatriation Boards to be appointed by the Governor-General where this is thought necessary. 
I shall proceed now to explain in more detail the changes proposed. The rates for which increases are proposed in this Bill ure to be found in the Schedules to the Repatriation Act. Although they are expressed in the Act as fortnightly amounts it has long been the custom for honourable members to refer to the weekly amounts payable and therefore 1 propose to follow this practice. The Bill provides for amendment to the Second Schedule to the Repatriation Act to give effect to an increase of $2 per week for the special TPI rate of pension which is payable to those people whose war-caused incapacities prevent them from earning more than a negligible percentage of a living wage and to the war-blinded. The increase will apply also to ex-servicemen who are temporarily totally incapacitated and certain sufferers from tuberculosis. The new rate payable will be S38 per week. In accordance with the usual practice, the amounts payable under the first six items of the Fifth Schedule to the Act for serious amputations and loss of an eye are also being increased by 32 per week so that the total amount payable to pensioners with those disabilities will continue to equal the TPI rate of pension although they may be able to work. This figure is arrived at by adding these amounts under the Fifth schedule to the 100 per cent general rate war pension which these seriously disabled exservicemen receive. The intermediate rate payable under the First Schedule to those who, because of war-caused incapacity, can work only part-time or intermittently and are thereby unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by $1.50 per week. The new rate will be $28 per week. 
The Sixth Schedule is to be amended to provide an increase in the special compensation allowance. This allowance is payable as additional compensation to those seriously disabled ex-servicemen whose actual incapacity is assessed at from 75 per cent to 100 per cent of the general rate. The increase will be $1 per week at the 100 per cent rate scaling down to 75c per week at the 75 per cent rate. The new rate of allowance will range from $6 per week for those whose actual incapacity is assessed at 100 per cent to $4.50 for those so assessed at 75 per cent. Increases in rates payable to war widows and war orphans are also proposed. For war widows, the Bill amends the First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of 50c per week in the war widow's pension. The Third Schedule will be amended to provide increases of 60c per week for the first child of an ex-serviceman who dies from war causes and 75c for the second and subsequent children. For a double orphan, that is a child who has also lost the other parent, the increase will be $1.85 per week. The new weekly war pension rates will be as follows: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_23_11.jpg"></graphic>

I turn now to the amendments in relation to Repatriation Boards to which I made earlier reference. A Repatriation Board, as honourable members will know, is the first of the independent determining authorities to consider claims for repatriation pensions and associated benefits and is responsible for the re-assessment of pensions as the occasion requires. The boards are appointed by the Governor-General and are comprised of a  Chairman  and 2 other members, 1 of whom is selected from lists of names submitted by ex-service organisations. There is J board in each State at present, some of which, depending upon their workloads, operate on a parttime basis only. The volume of work submitted to the Repatriation Board in New South Wales last year pointed up the urgent need to appoint a second board in that State if cases are to be dealt with in the way intended by the Repatriation Act. Similar pressures in other States have been met by extending the periods of sitting of the boards all of which had been operating on less than a full-time basis. The Act as it now stands permits the appointment of 1 board only in each State. The amendment I am proposing will provide the necessary power to appoint additional boards if and where required. The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional benefits to which the bill gives effect. All of the foregoing amendments will come into force on the date on which the amending Act receives the royal assent and the pension increases will be paid on and from the first pension pay day thereafter. A table which sets out in full the repatriation Budget details including those covered by this Bill has been prepared. It is available for information and, for convenience of honourable members, has been attached to copies of this speech which are being circulated. The measures I have outlined represent further significant advances in the repatriation war pensions area and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned.. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be  now read a second  time. 

 Mr Speaker,I wish to inform the House thatI am making this speech on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  It is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the similar rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to increase, in relation to seamen, the various rates of pension as announced by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget speech, and being given effect to by the Bill to amend the Repatriation Act recently introduced by me. Paragraph (a) of clause 3 of the Bill increases the 'intermediate' rate of war pension by S3 per fortnight to $56 per fortnight. The 'intermediate' pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part time basis, or intermittently. Paragraph (b) of that clause provides, in respect of children whose father, having been an Australian mariner coming under the Act, is dead, for an increase of $1.20 in the fortnightly rate of pension for the first child, making the fortnightly rate $12 for that child, and for an increase of $1.50 to the rate of $10 for each other child. Paragraph (c) of that clause provides for an increase of $3.70 in the fortnightly rate of pension payable for each child where the mother also is dead - the 'double orphan' - bringing that rate up to $24 per fortnight. 
Under clause 4 the maximum rate of the special compensation allowance, provided for those general rate pensioners who, although able to work, are nevertheless seriously incapacitated by war caused disability, is increased by $2 to $12 per fortnight for the 100 per cent rate pensioner. 
Under section 22b (2.) of the Act the new rates will scale down proportionately  to$9  per fortnight for the 75 per cent pensioner. Clause 5 of the Bill substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1 in the fortnightly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners, the maximum rate thus becoming $34.60 per fortnight. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $4  to  $76 per fortnight in the rate of TPI pension or for the increase of $4 in the fortnightly amounts payable in respect of certain disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's' War Pensions and Allowances Act. As usual, the increases in pensions and benefits will be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Bill receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill  to the  House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Apple and Pear Organisation Act 1938-1966 I present the twenty-fourth annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969 I present the first annual report of the Chicken Meat Research Committee for the" year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1970 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed, I would sugggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in the debate. 
in reply - I understand that because of the timetable of the House I have exactly 74 minutes in which to sum up the debate and answer some of the queries, so I shall get straight to it. Obviously I will not be able to menlion all the matters I would like to. Dealing very briefly with the matter the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  raised, he said that the No. 4 Tribunal had said that there were grotesque and misleading mistakes in the summaries prepared for them. The report 1 have is that the Department makes every effort to ensure as far as practicable that the summaries are accurate. In every case there is a complete check of important documents - for example, all papers covering medical examinations on entry to and on discharge from the forces - and the recording of all determinations and decisions by the statutory determining authorities. In addition, there is a further 10 per cent check of summaries many of which range in length up to 40 pages or more. At the time the Tribunal's report was tabled last year the then Acting Minister was given the background of matters raised. At that time we indicated - and this is the important point - that within the period covered by the Tribunal's report there had not been an instance of criticism to the Commission either by the No. 4 Tribunal or any other tribunal. 
I refer now to the matter that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  raised regarding the man who was transferred from a repatriation hospital to another hospital. This was done after a discussion with him, his brother and his sister-in-law. It was agreed he should be transferred to the Bexley Nursing Home which was close to his family. 
That is my information. If the honourable member wants me to take it further I am prepared to. Regarding the review committee that has been set up within the Department, anybody - including honourable members and particularly the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  - will be eligible to make submissions. If the honourable member has suggestions to put forward for improvement of the repatriation system he is welcome to do so. He can submit his suggestions to the committee of inquiry through the  Chairman  of the Commission. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  is the main spokesman on repatriation for the Australian Labor Party. I listened to the honourable member today for 45 minutes and he did not put one single proposal as to what the Labor Party would do about pension rates and hospital treatment for ex-servicemen of the 1914-18 war if that Party was in government. One would think to listen to him that he was a tremendous supporter of the policies of the Returned Services League and of the League itself. Indeed, one would think that all honourable members opposite were great supporters of this organisation. However, 1 want to concentrate particularly on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Party of the  Deputy  Leader certainly does not support RSL policy on Vietnam for a start, even though the honourable member has admitted that he is convinced that there was aggression by the North Vietnamese against the South Vietnamese. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was critical of a speech I made to the RSL conference in Queensland. He said that I didnotdevoteenoughtimein my speech to pension rates and other aspects of the repatriation system. At least I devoted much of my speech to compensation rates and other matters connected with the repatriation system. In October last year the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made a 13-page speech to the Queensland RSL in which he did not make one reference to repatriation. Yet, he is critical of me. That is all the time I have to spend in dealing with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. There has been a great deal of play- 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1970, 1 present the reports of War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
The reason why the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  raises this matter is that I challenged him to produce an official document which showed that the Labor Party's official policy on the 1969-70 wheat crop, was to take all wheat produced into storage and pay the $1.10 first advance on it, no matter how much was produced. I say that he has failed to meet this challenge because he has not produced an official document. Only last night in the House the honourable member for Dawson, his own colleague, rejected this take-it-all-in and payforit proposal by bis own statements. 
He did. He said that he supported paying a £1.10 first advance to wheat growers for wheat produced within the quota. 
The honourable member has said repeatedly that the Labor Party's policy was to take in all wheat produced - whether it be quota or non-quota wheat. He has said that the- wheat would be taken into storage and a first advance payment of $1.10 would be made. The honourable member for Dawson went on to say - and it is well for the farming community to hear this repeated and to remember it.It was in a speech he made in March this year: 
It was obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums  of.  money not repaid in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. 
That was for the 1969-70 harvest, but only for quota wheat. Actually, the honourable member for Dawson is inaccurate in that the Government does not make an advance at all. What is involved is the limit imposed by the Treasury on the Reserve Bank on the advance to the Australian Wheat Board. Then the honourable member for Dawson went on to say:  in March 1970, we see a total of $440m as the first advance for last year's crop . . . 
This is not correct. The actual figure involved is $400m, which is $40m less than that mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson. This is worth remembering because be is the official spokesman on these matters for the Opposition. He said that to arrive at the outstanding debt of the wheatgrowers we must add the $250m not repaid on the 1 968-69 crop. He went on to say: 
This amounts to a loan- 
That is, to the Wheat Board - of from $650m to $700m. . 
That takes in the $400m. So, the honourable member for Dawson was referring to the $650m or the $700m. Now comes the significant point for the primary producers. 
He said: 
The disturbing thing- 
This is the Labor Party's official spokesman on primary industry who said this - 
He said this in March this year. He said: 
The disturbing thing of which Parliament must take note is the very serious economic problem . . of making large advances to anyone when  that  money has been spent and the product for which it has been advanced hag not been sold. 
 'The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  as usual is. wrong. I have not 3 minutes, but 5. So 1 must be brief. First I want to comment on some of the things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said. He said during the debate on the Repatriation Bill recently that Government members refused to stand up and support the repatriation submissions in the Budget. If one has anything to say one should stand up. That is right. The  Deputy  Leader stood up for 45 minutes and said absolutely nothing. He was . critical of the Government but he did not make one constructive proposal about what the Opposition would do to incease the pensions payable under the Repatriation Act if it were in government. He did not make one constructive proposal in 45 minutes. 
He said that we totally ignored in our considerations the submissions from the Returned Services League. That is not true. The submissions made by the National Executive of the RSL were taken into consideration on this occasion just as 1 take into consideration everything that is submitted by the RSL which does such a magnificent job for the ex-servicemen of Australia. But equally as important as taking into consideration some of the points that the RSL put forward is taking notice of its policy on a matter vital to Australia. That is its defence policy to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and his Party are opposed totally. This is just as important as supporting the pension plan proposed by the RSL. 
As is typical of the Opposition, its members have put forward certain matters and have said that the Government ought to tlo more and to spend more regarding those matters. These things all involve the expenditure of more money. Where are we to get the money from? That is the proposition that I put to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. If he wants compensation payments through the repatriation system increased he should make his proposals, say what he is going to spend and where he will obtain the money to finance his proposals. I can apply the same argument to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He is reported in a newspaper this morning as saying that he will find funds for 2 new cities in Australia. Where will he find those funds? I ask: Will be increase taxation or what will he do? 
That is my answer to the Opposition except to say that when it was in government - I refer here to what has been said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition about the means test - totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners could not obtain any payment other than their pensions. At least under this Government the TPI pensioner can share in the means test and can get up to $58 a week. Neither I nor the Government was quite happy with the provisions made in the Budget estimates for the Repatriation Department. The appropriation this year is $337m. This is a pretty substantial sum of money for this financial year. Of course we would have liked to have done more and to have provided more money but due to the general budgetary situation and due to the economic situation generally in Australia, the Government acted in a responsible manner and came to the conclusions to which it came. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  raised 2 matters that I certainly will consider in the future- 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury) - Order! The time allotted for the consideration of the proposed expenditures has expired. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Proposed expenditure, $83,900,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Both in-patients accommodated in Wards 23, 24 and 34 and out-patients from the Day Centre (which units predominantly cater for patients with nervous conditions) attending the occupational therapy department of the Concord Hospital are engaged voluntarily in activities mentioned by the honourable member. There are no patients attending from Ward 22 (which is a general medical ward), but the same type of activity is also performed at the Department's Day Centre situated at the Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre, Chalmers Street, Sydney, for suitable out-patients of all types who find it inconvenient to attend the hospital. 
These activities are part of a patient's planned treatment programme and follow the growing world-wide acceptance of this form of therapy to improve self-confidence and motivation and to stimulate chronic patients to exercise impaired physical, psychological and social functions. This often leads to re-employment within a commercial or sheltered workshop environment, or delays the deterioration of disabilities which would otherwise mean long-term institutional care. 
This form of therapy is similar to that used in sheltered workshops and payment is on the same general basis of providing an incentive which would not be available without the goodwill and co-operation of the organisations concerned. Moneys received for work therapy projects are paid into a fund which is held to provide amenities for patients participating in work groups. 
No. 
Yes. At the Edward Millen Hospital, Western Australia, work therapy activities include such projects as the dismantling of obsolete telephone for scrap metal; the fabrication of wire wall ties and the assembling of paper fashion bags. In addition a range of charitable projects is carried out such as reconditioning toys for Christmas toy appeals, folding and enveloping annual appeal material for Red Cross and Legacy appeals and in such activities as the fabrication and assembly of simple aids to daily living, for example, bath seats for use by departmental patients. 
At the Repatriation General Hospital, Heidelberg, Victoria, a range of projects is also carried out including the assembling and packaging of vegetable peelers and plastic toys and the filling and packing of small containers with detergent powder. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The total number of war pensioners as at 30 June 1970 was 585,307. This figure included incapacitated ex-servicemen and their dependants and the dependants of deceased ex-servicemen. 
Precise figures are not available, but assuming that the question is directed to those who received increases in their basic rates of pension as distinct from those who received increases arising from re-assessment of the extent of pensionable incapacity, approximately 98,000 war pensioners would have received increases during the year. 
Yes, assuming again that the question does not relate to increases arising from re-assessment of pensionable incapacity. 
Geneva Conference on Indo-China: United States Speech  (Question No.  1724) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Assuming that the question relates to reestablishment loans under the Defence ate-establish. ment) Act, the relevant details in respect of applications for business loans received from former national servicemen are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
Yes. 
D. J. W. Smith, Chairman; D. McNab and W. M. Brunsdon, members. 
and (4) I am informed that a Board cannot and docs not sit to determine claims unless at least two members are present, this being the number required under the Act to constitute a quorum and each of the members present signs the record of the decision. 
 The cuts in the Repatriation Department expenditure announced by the Prime Minister will not mean that the level of pensions or the other benefits that come through the Department will be affected. It will not mean that the standard of treatment available through the Department will be in any way affected. Lastly, no hardship will be caused to any of the clients of the Department who receive payments from the Department or to those who have claims that will be processed during the next 4 months. 
I will refer the honourable member's question to my colleague in another place. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals, announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this 
House on 15th March, to increase the rate of certain repatriation war and service pensions from the first pay day after 31st March 1971. The clients of the Repatriation Department will receive the increases as from 1st April 1971 even though royal assent may not be obtained by that date. Clause 2 of the Bill is so worded as to achieve the desired date of payment. It was originally hoped that the Bill would go through the House of Representatives today and the Senate on Wednesday but, due to the Opposition's request for an adjournment of the debate until tomorrow this will not be achievable. Another obvious reason that it will not be possible to receive royal assent by 1st April is that Parliament was not sitting last week. My colleague, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  has outlined some other factors also involved. The Government wishes to make it clear that the retrospectivity involved on this occasion, because of special circumstances, should not be taken as a precedent for the future, particularly in view of the very small time period involved and because of the other factors mentioned. 
This Bill provides for higher war compensation payments by way of increases in the rates of war pension for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen and women and those who, because of the severity of their war-caused disabilities, receive payments equal to the TPI rate, namely, the war blinded, those temporarily totally incapacitated, those receiving the special rate of war pension for tuberculosis, and those double amputees who receive additional amounts under the first six items of the Fifth Schedule. It provides also for increases in the intermediate rate payable to those whose war-caused incapacity allows them to work only part time or intermittently, and for an increase in the rate of pension payable to war widows. The Bill also incorporates some amendments to the Act of a machinery nature necessary for applying to Service pensioners the increases which are being proposed for age and invalid pensioners. The rates of war pension for which increases are proposed in this Bill are to be found in the schedules to the Repatriation Act. Although they are expressed in the Act as fortnightly amounts, it has long been the custom for honourable members to refer to the weekly amounts payable and 1 will continue this practice. 
The Bill provides for an amendment to the Second Schedule to the Act to give effect to an increase of $1 a week for the special TPI rate of pension paid to those people whose war-caused incapacities prevent them from earning more than a negligible percentage of a living wage, to the war blinded and to certain sufferers from tuberculosis. The new rate will be $39 a week, which will also apply to exservicemen who are temporarily totally incapacitated. The amounts payable under the first six items of the Fifth Schedule for more severe incapacity resulting from double amputations will also be increased by $1 a week so that the total amount payable to these pensioners will continue to be equal to the TPI rate of pension. The intermediate rate, payable under the sixth footnote to the First Schedule to those who, because of war-caused incapacity, can work only part time or intermittently and are thereby unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by 50c a week. The new rate will be$28.50 a week. The Bill amends column 3 of the First Schedule to provide an increase of 50c a week in war widows pensions. 
As honourable members will know, the Repatriation Act provides for payment of Service pensions at rates expressed in the Social Services Act as applying to age and invalid pensions. However, to enable the new provisions proposed for age and invalid pensioners to be similarly applied to Service pensioners it has been necessary to make some machinery amendments to the Repatriation Act. Clauses 3, 4 and 5 of the Bill do this. The increases in this Bill will benefit approximately 24,000 war pensioners, 49,500 war widows and 43,000 Service pensioners. The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide in the current year the additional payments to which this Bill gives effect. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? 
No. 
1 move: That lnc Bil] be now read a second time. lt is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the rates of pensions and allowances payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to raise, in relation to seamen, various rates of pension in line with the increases of corresponding rates being made in the Repatriation Bill just introduced. These increases are in accordance with the higher rates recently announced by the Prime Minister. 
Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by SOc per week to $28.50. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war-caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part-time basis, or intermittently. Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of 50c in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $1.00 to $39.00 per week in the rate of T.P.I, pension or for the increase of $1.00 in the weekly amounts payable in respect of certain disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
As in the case in respect of the Repatriation legislation, the Government wishes to make it clear that the increases in pensions for which the Bill provides will be payable from 1st April 1971, and that the retrospectivity involved on this occasion because of the special circumstances should not be taken as a precedent for the future, particularly in view of the very small time period involved and because of other factors to which I have already referred in my second reading speech on the Repatriation Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
I shall be brief in replying to the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I wish to say, firstly, that his statement that Service personnel have not received the 6 per cent increase which was awarded in the national wage case in January of this year is quite correct. The honourable member asked why they have had to wait this length of time. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  gave the reason for this in an answer to a question asked of him in the House earlier this week. He said: 
The reason why the 6 per cent increase awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission nas not yet passed to uniformed members of the Services is because it is necessary under the law for regulations to be made increasing the amounts paid. 
It seems to me that if the payment of this increase is to be speeded up the law will have either to be altered or to be amended in some way to allow the regulations which are necessary for its payment to be more easily brought into effect. 1 have referred to the answer which was given by the Minister for Defence earlier this week. I have been advised that the chief legal officer of the Department of Air has stated that the first proof of the regulations themselves has been received from the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel but that the final form is not expected to be submitted to the Executive Council until 14th April. In that case payment will not be made to the personnel referred to by the honourable member until 22nd April. 
This is the information I have. It is fully expected it will be paid on 22nd April. The other major point that the honourable member for Newcastle raised related to the rates of pay of Service personnel compared with those of private airline personnel in the same trade categories. As honourable members will know, the Kerr Committee is currently investigating the rates of pay of all armed Services personnel. It has been holding regular and numerous meetings and is actively pursuing its inquiries. Honourable members will know also that there have been adjustments in payments to flying personnel over the last few months which have given them considerable increases in their pay. As to the situation of ground staff, I will see that the honourable member's comments are referred to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  tomorrow provided the Minister is available. I am not sure of the Minister's programme. As I understand it the Senate has risen for this week but the honourable member for Newcastle can rest assured that his comments will be referred to the Minister for Air as soon as it is possible to do so. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
14th September 1970. 
The Government's ' direction was for a review of the  rationale  and principles of the repatriation systems and, in that context, the suitability and effectiveness of the present provisions. 
The review is being undertaken by the Repatriation Department. The  Chairman  of the Repatriation Commission, which is the Statutory Authority under the Repatriation Act appointed to advise the Government on such matters, has been asked to carry the responsibility for the review. 
&amp; (5) This is not a public enquiry involving formal meetings. However, the Government's decision to have this review made was announced publicly ami later mentioned in this House. In addition, major organisations representing exservicemen and women and their dependants and others interested in Repatriation matters were invited by letter to submit matters for consideration and generally to express their views. Virtually all have done so and these views are being taken into account in the review. 
The Department is pressing on with the review but at this stage 1 am not able to say when it will conclude. 
When the review is concluded the Government will consider the report and decide then what action is to be taken on it. 
May 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation? Before the debate on the Bill is resumed, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a cognate debate on this Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill, as they are associated, measures. Of course, questions may be put separately on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that the subject matter of both Bills be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  lt is standard procedure on any Air Force Base that guards bc posted on airfield defence duties, and that they be armed. It is confirmed tha! guards, some of whom- were armed, w.ere posted at RAAF Richmond for normal airfield defence duties at the lime the merino . rams were being loaded. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the hon.ourale member's question:  
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The cost of the Fill aircraft is not broken down to flyaway cost and research and development but it is known that for domestic United Slates working purposes a research and development element is applied by the United States Air Force. Although this is a domestic matter for the USAF information available lo me indicates that the sum so applied to the 24 F1UC aircraft is approximately $US27m. 
The Government does not accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  on behalf of the Opposition. The reasons why the Government will not accept it were put forward broadly by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is absent from Australia at the moment, during the second reading stage of the Bill. I want to reiterate briefly some of the points as to why the Government will not accept the amendment. The question of time limits for prosecution for offences against levy collection Acts has been debated in this House and in the Senate on a number of occasions. In some Acts there is no time limit at all. However, because of numerous requests from various people and organisations both inside and outside the Parliament the Government has had a look at the position and has decided to introduce a time limit in this ease. 
The amendment put forward by the Opposition seeks to establish a time limit of 12 months. This is not a practical solution. First, it would be extremely costly. The administration would require a substantial increase in the number of inspectors employed by the Department to achieve the tremendous task of checking all books of records within any one year. In collecting levies under this type of legislation, which is brought in solely for the benefit of the rural industry concerned, the Government has no wish or intention to harass any producer or packing house proprietor. The honourable member for Dawson tried to paint for primary producers the picture that they were being penalised compared with the rest of the community. But the whole idea of the Bill is to help the primary producer, and the idea of the clause now concerned is to protect the primary producer engaged in the dried fruit industry who, as the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  rightly said, is doing the right thing by the industry and by his fellow growers. 
In the event of a mistake being made there is allowance for negotiations between the Department and the producer. A court case is not automatic, as the honourable member for Dawson tried to imply and in fact stated. The whole idea of this clause is to protect the man who undertakes his obligations and duty under this scheme to his fellow primary producers. When the Government proposed the period of 5 years, as it stands at the moment in the Bill, it was allowing for several factors: First of all, time to detect the offence, and it could be and probably would be more than 1 year before inspections were undertaken of all establishments; and secondly, time for the Department and the producer or proprietor to negotiate without recourse to immediate prosecution. 
The Government thought that 5 years was the most practical time. However, as an amendment seeking to reduce the time to 3 years was passed in the Senate, the Government and the Department of Primary Industry, whose duty it is to collect all the levies due, have had another look at the matter, and they have decided, on a reconsideration of all the arguments and the facts of the scheme, that the Department probably could carry out its duties under this legislation effectively if the period stated in clause 11 (2.) was 3 years instead of 5 years. That is why the Government has decided to agree with the amendment that was passed in another place and why the Government rejects the amendment put forward by the Opposition. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
22,584. 
The exact number is nol readily available, however, it is estimated that 7,820 Special Rate pensioners are also in receipt of a part service pension. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
I have considered this proposal. However, such payments would not be in keeping with the basic principles of the Australian repatriation system which provides for the payment of compensation, assessed on the basis of incapacity suffered as a result of war service. 
In recent years the Government has received similar requests from organisations representing ex-servicemen but has been unable to give its approval. Medical treatment, including hospitalisation, is provided at the expense of the Repatria tion Department for all disabilities due to war service and, in the case of ex-servicemen in receipt of the 100 per cent General Rate of war pension, or above, or a service pension without recourse to the 'tapered' means test, for most disabilities whether war caused or not 
I was unaware that undertakers made higher charges to relatives of ex-service personnel, but the amounts charged for funerals are outside my jurisdiction. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase various rates and amounts of workers' compensation payable in respect of seamen and their dependants under the Seamen's Compensation Act. Such compensation is paid by shipowners and not by the Commonwealth. Compensation for seamen serving in intrastate ships, to whom the Bill does not apply, is paid under State workers' compensation Acts. These increases are in line with the increases contained in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill now awaiting debate in this House. It is of course desirable that the rates of compensation under the 2 main compensation Acts administered by the Commonwealth be kept uniform and that changes be brought into operation at the same time. 
The weekly rate of compensation for a seaman is being increased from $31.80 to $35 and there is provision also for increases in weekly rates from $7.70 to $8.50 for a seaman's wife and, proportionately, a particularly substantial increase from $2.80 to $5 for each of a seaman's children. The basic lump sum death benefit, to which other lump sum benefits for various injuries are related, is being increased from $12,000 to $13,500, and the minimum total payment for a dependant child, in death cases, is being very substantially increased, from $280 to $500. Another large increase being made is in the maximum amount of funeral expenses payable in respect of the death of a seaman, which rises from $120 to $300. 
There are 4 other respects in relation to monetary rates in which the Act is being amended in line with the Commonwealth employees' compensation legislation. The first of these removes the existing provision requiring reduction, in some death cases, in the amount payable to dependants. This occurs where a lump sum previously paid exceeds the total of certain weekly payments. The second removes the provision which requires a reduced weekly rate of compensation to be paid to minors not receiving adult rates of pay. The weekly payment, however, will continue to be limited to the weekly pay at the date of the injury. The third of the 4 respects referred to does away with the difference in compensation between right and left arms on account of being right-handed or left-handed. Such differences no longer exist in most State workers' compensation legislation. Left arm rates are being increased to the right arm rates. The fourth is a matter of wording only. The new Third Schedule brings the descriptions of the various injuries specified into line with the new descriptions being introduced into the Commonwealth employees' legislation. A similar code of compensation to that contained in the legislation for Commonwealth employees has always been applied under the Seamen's Compensation Act. In some respects the provisions have to be applied to suit sea-going conditions and shipowners necessarily have to be consulted. Action along these lines is now proceeding and a Bill to further amend the Seamen's Compensation Act to introduce a new code similar to that for Commonwealth employees will be introduced as soon as practicable. The Bill provides considerably improved rates of workers' compensation for all classes of personnel in our Merchant Navy and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a  second time.  I introduce this Bill on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  This Bill is the culmination of the review of the Commonwealth's fisheries legislation, which was foreshadowed to the House when the Fisheries Bill 1970 was introduced last October. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Fisheries Act 1952-1970 in order to provide more adequate machinery for the management of Australian fisheries, as found necessary in the light of their spectacular growth in recent years. In the 10 years to 1968-69. the net value of fisheries production increased by 160 per cent from $22.5m to $58.4m. On the export side, the value of fisheries exports in the same period rose by 270 per cent from $11.lm to $41.2m. At the time of the last study carried out by my Department of the rankings of the various industries exporting edible primary products, the fishing industry held sixth position in respect to value. Parallel to this growth, major changes in the structure of the industry have occurred. There is a steadily increasing number of company operations where once only relatively small owner-operated units existed. Larger and more sophisticated boats with modern fishfinding and catching equipment are now being built in Australia in significant numbers. Australian fishermen are extending their operations into the more isolated areas off the north of Australia and venturing further into International waters than ever before. We are continuing to take advantage of overseas developments in fishing techniques. In all, the best description that can be offered of our fishing industry is that it is coming of age, and is now making a significant contribution to the Australian economy. 
In 1952, the then Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, introducing the Fisheries Bill, informed the House that the intention of the legislation was to provide for conservation of the fishery resources of Australia, The Government now believes that the Act should be broadened to provide not only for conservation but also for the orderly conduct and general welfare of the fishing industry, including the rational utilisation of the living marine resources and the rational development of the fishing industry at all levels. 
The Bill now before the House contains two important new principles. First, clause 5 provides for the separate exercise of functions under the Act in proclaimed waters adjacent to Australia, Ashmore and Cartier Islands and the Coral Sea islands territory by the Minister and the Secretary of the Department of Primary Industry, and in proclaimed waters adjacent to the external territories, by the Minister for External Territories and the Secretary to that Department. To allow fishermen who at present operate off both Australia and the external territories time to adjust to the new arrangement, the Government will permit a phase-out period during which the cross-endorsement of licences will be facilitated. At the end of such a period, we would expect most operators concerned to have concentrated their operations in either one or the other area. 
Clause 5 also provides that each Minister and each Secretary may delegate his powers and functions under the Act. However, the power to grant or transfer licences in respect of foreign fishing boats, all fish-processing boats and all fishcarrying boats intending to operate in the proclaimed waters adjacent to Australia, may be delegated only to officers of the Department of Primary Industry. This is considered necessary to ensure proper supervision over the activities of such boats. The power to cancel a licence is now reserved to the Minister or the Secretary and may not be delegated. To ensure a clear-cut division of responsibility in administering the Act, clause 6 empowers the making of separate proclamations of the waters adjacent to Australia and of the waters adjacent to the external territories where the Act is to apply. At the same time, by definition in clause 4, both these areas remain of equal status as proclaimed waters. The second new principle makes provision, in an administratively practical way, for controlling the level of fishing effort in particular fisheries. 
Clause 7 deals with the first part of the machinery for this purpose. First, it empowers the Minister to close an area to the taking of a particular kind of fish, except from boats with licences which have been endorsed for taking such fish from that area. This will provide for the effective application of licence limitation programmes, as it means that only licences for those boats permitted to enter the particular fishery will require endorsement. The principle will continue to be followed that boats entitled to work in a limited fishery will be determined on the basis of a policy publicly anounced by the Minister. Should it be necessary to apply licence limitation in any area traditionally fished by indigenous inhabitants of the external territories, those traditional fishing operations will be exempted. 
Powers are also provided for the Minister to regulate the quantity of fishing gear permitted to be used from a particular boat, and to require that such gear be registered under State law before it may be used in proclaimed waters. The former of these, combined with the existing power to close seasons and the power to close areas, completes the range of controls required to regulate the level of fishing effort. The division of fishery jurisdiction between Commonwealth and States makes it necessary to link the power to regulate the quantity of gear permitted to be used in proclaimed waters to the State law, to prevent fishermen doubling up on the quantity of gear they are permitted to use by operating one set in State-controlled waters and a second set in Commonwealthcontrolled waters. 
Clause 8 of the Bill contains the second part of the machinery for controlling fishing effort in the licensing provisions of the Act. In essence, these build on what is already provided. First, the present licence for a boat is qualified to permit the boat to process and carry its own catch only. Next, 2 categories of licence are provided to authorise the use of boats to process or to carry the catches of other boats. Third, power is provided for a licensing authority to endorse a boat licence to authorise the boat to operate in a limited licence fishery. In conformity with a request from the Austraiian Fisheries Council, the fishing gear registration provisions of the Act are repealed. I should like to point out that the Bill, for convenience of drafting, reenacts the discretionary power conferred by the principal Act on licensing authorities. As in the past, this discretion will continue to be exercised in accordance with the principle that unless there is good reason, consistent with the purposes of the Act, for refusing a licence, it will be granted. 
Clause 8 also contains provision for the endorsement of licences as between areas of proclaimed waters. That is, if a boat licensed to fish in proclaimed waters adjacent to Papua and New Guinea is moved to proclaimed waters adjacent to Australia, the licensing authority in Australia may, without receiving an additional licence fee, but subject to the appropriate considerations of policy, endorse the licence to extend its validity to the whole or to a part of proclaimed waters adjacent to Australia. The reverse is equally possible. Clause 8 further empowers the Minister or the Secretary to cancel a fisherman's licence or a boat licence held by a person whose State licence has been cancelled following a conviction under State law for an offence that, had it been committed in an adjacent area of proclaimed waters, would have been a contravention of a notice under the Fisheries Act, At present, this is not possible, and has given rise to the situation where a person could continue to fish or use a boat in proclaimed waters at a time when he is forbidden to fish or use that boat in adjacent waters where the State fishery law applies. 
Clause 10 repeals the existing offence provisions of the Act and re-states them with certain additions, which, as a result  of  experience in the past, are considered necessary for the effective administration of the Act. Clause 10 also makes it an offence for the holder of a boat licence to cause or permit a person acting on his behalf to contravene a condition of that licence. It further makes it an offence for a person acting on behalf of a licence holder to contravene a condition of the licence. The combined effect will be to prevent an employer from profiting by the illegal acts of an employee, and, at the some time, to make the employee liable for his own actions. The Act at present does not bind the employee to the conditions of a boat licence. 
Clause 10 will, in addition, make a fishing boat skipper or a fishing boat company liable for a contravention of a management notice, such as minimum size or a closed season, committed by a member of the crew of a boat. This does not relieve the crew member of his personal liability, but would, by also making the skipper or owner liable, enable a court to order forfeiture of the illegal catch if it thought such a penalty appropriate. Clause 10 contains a new penalty provision in relation to persons convicted by a court of summary jurisdiction of an offence where a foreign boat is involved. The maximum monetary penalty on summary conviction is $1,000. If the court does not order forfeiture of the catch, its value is likely to more than compensate the offender for the amount of any fine. The Government has decided that convicted foreigners should not be permitted to profit by infringement of Australian fisheries law, and the Bill therefore makes it obligatory for a court of summary jurisdiction, when convicting a person employed on a foreign boat, to order forfeiture of the fish and the fishing gear on the boat. Courts may, if they think fit, also order forfeiture of the boat itself. 
I should like to point out to honourable members that the Government is firmly of the opinion that these penalties are necessary as a deterrent to infringements by foreigners of Australian fisheries laws. Foreign fishermen do not have to land in Australia to commit such infringements of Australian fisheries laws. This, combined with their mobility, makes the detection and punishment of their offences extremely difficult. It is for this reason that some of the provisions of clause 10 have been made as strong as they are. It is intended that they will serve as a deterrent. Clause 11 strengthens provisions relating to offences against officers in the performance of their duties under the Act, and provides an alternative penalty of imprisonment on conviction for such offences. Honourable members will note that there is no provision in the Bill for extending Australia's fisheries jurisdiction over foreigners. However, it should be pointed out that the whole question of the law of the sea is at present being examined internationally within the framework of the United Nations, the General Assembly of which resolved in December last that an international law of the sea conference be convened in 1973. Australia will be represented on the committee that will meet later this year in Geneva to prepare, inter alia, a comprehensive list of subjects and issues relating to the law of the sea, which should be dealt with by the 1973 conference, and to draft articles on such subjects and issues. 
One of the matters to be dealt with at the conference will be fishing and the conservation of the living resources of the high seas, including the preferential rights of coastal states. The outcome of these deliberations will have particular relevance to the Australian fishing industry and Australia's jurisdiction over the marine resources in waters adjacent to Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend certain of the machinery provisions of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act to ensure more effective administration of the legislation and, in conjunction with amendments proposed in the Fisheries Act which has just been introduced to bring the principles embodied in the 2 Acts into uniformity. Where appropriate, identical definitions and provisions have been introduced. As honourable members are aware, the main purpose of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act is to enable the fullest possible protection to be given to the living sedentary resources of the continental shelf of Australia and the external territories, including the Great Barrier Reef. Such control is in accordance with international law as expressed in the 1958 Convention on the Continental Shelf. 
Turning to the substance of the Bill, I would draw attention to a number of important provisions. The proposed definitions of 'Australian ships' and 'foreign ships' are identical to those proposed in the Fisheries Bill. Clause 5 proposes, amongst other things, an amendment to empower the Minister to close an area to the taking of a particular kind of sedentary organism except by people, or by the use of ships, in respect of which the licences have been endorsed so as to authorise those people to search for and take, or those ships to be used to search for and take, those sedentary organisms from the closed area. As in the case of the Fisheries Bill, this will assist the effective application of licence limitation programmes. These provisions have immediate relevance to the Great Barrier Reef as they would enable the Commonwealth to join Queensland in regulating the taking of live coral. 
Amendments proposed under clause 6 relate to the licensing provisions of the Act and are necessary to enable the Minister to endorse the licences to search for and take protected sedentary organisms in a closed area in accordance with an announced policy of allowing a limited number of persons into the closed area. Clause 6 also provides for an addition to the existing grounds on which a licence may be cancelled. As in the case of a similar provision in the Fisheries Bill, this is designed to eliminate the situation where a person may search for an take sedentary organisms or use a ship to do so in the area of continental shelf under Commonwealth jurisdiction at a time when he is prohibited from doing so on the sea-bed beneath the adjoining water subject to state fishery jurisdiction. Clause 8 is a provision similar to that in the Fisheries Bill and makes the skipper or owner of a ship liable for  a  contravention of a notice implementing  a  conservation measure such as a minimum size or a closed season, committed by  a  member of the crew of the ship. Clause 9  (b),  similarly to the Fisheries Bill, makes it obligatory for a court of summary jurisdiction, when convicting a person of an offence involving the use of a foreign ship, to order forfeiture of any sedentary organisms, and the equipment for taking them, found on the ship. This clause also provides for the disposal of forfeited goods on the instructions of the Secretary, for an alternative penalty of imprisonment for offences against officers in the performance of their duty, and for a penalty for the offence of moving a foreign ship detained in default of a fine except with the permission of an officer. 
Clause 10 authorises courts, convicting persons for offences involving the use of a foreign ship and imposing monetary penalties and forfeiture other than forfeiture of the ship, to order that fines in default be levied by distress and sale of the foreign ship. The Minister or his delegate may release the ship from detention if the fine is paid or an acceptable security for the fine is received. To prevent a detained foreign ship from fleeing, an offence is created of moving it without the consent of an officer. Clause 11 empowers the Minister or his delegate to give certificates for use as evidence as to the nationality of a ship or that, at a specified time, a person did or did not hold a licence endorsed so as to authorise him to search for and take, or to use a boat to search for and take, particular kinds of sedentary organisms from a closed area. Clause 12 provides that all minimum size notices in force at the time of commencement of the Act will continue in force. 
This Bill is shorter than the Fisheries Bill but deals, in its own context, with matters also embodied in that Bill. The House may find it appropriate to consider the 2 Bills in a single debate. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated annual costs are - $m 
proposed increases in war and service pensions . . . . 100.09 
extension of hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits to all returned ex-servicemen of the Boer 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Related to the December 1970 quarter average male weekly earnings the percentages are - 
45.99 per cent. 
14.15 per cent 
Related to the December 1969 quarter average male weekly earnings the percentages were- 
46.15 per cent. 
15.38 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records are not kept to enable an answer to be given to the specific question asked by the honourable member and to obtain the information sought would require - the examination of over 10,000 personal files. However, the following figures relating to appeals, from persons residing in the specified area, which were decided during the periods shown were more readily available and may meet his requirements: 
Appeals to Entitlement Appeal Tribunals - 407 between 1st January 1970 and 31st December 1970. 
Appeals to Assessment Appeal Tribunals - 431 between 1st January 1970 and 31st December 1970. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The average age of all Air Force personnel including male and female personnel, officers and other ranks is 28.3 years. 
The average age of male Air Force personnel is 28.6 years. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The value of F111C spare parts presently stored in Australia is about $US37m. 
Progressively, since 1968. 
There are no unwanted spare parts but some spares having a finite storage life have been returned to the United States for use by the U.S. Air Force. Additionally, a larger quantity has been returned for rework due to the modification changes to the aircraft rendering the existing spare parts unsuitable. Certain parts to cover shortfalls in the USAF inventory have also been returned. (4)(a) The value of the limited storage life spare parts returned for us by the U.S. Air Force is about $US690,000. The Commonwealth has been credited with full acquisition costs and transportation costs were met by the U.S. Air Force: 
The value of the spare parts returned for rework or updating due to modification changes is about $US2.2m. The question of crediting of purchase value does not arise as these spares will be returned to Australia when modified. Transportation costs are being met by the Commonwealth. 
The value of other parts referred to in (3) above is approximately $US115,000 which has been credited to the Commonwealth. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As at 20th April 1971 there were no Royal Australian Air Force personnel currently serving terms of imprisonment in civilian gaols. 
Whenever the subject of the Fill has been raised in the Parliament it has always been interesting to me to note the number of experts on military tactics, aircraft and armaments who emerge. All sorts of statements are made by people who have never flown the Fill aircraft and who have never flown an aircraft at all. I admit that there are problems with the aircraft. Of course there are; everybody knows that. It has certain technical problems, but as far as its flying capabilities are concerned there is one group of people to which I like to speak and that is the pilots in the United States Air Force who fly the aircraft and the pilots in the Royal Australian Air Force who have flown the aircraft not once but for a great number of hours. 
Recently, I took the opportunity of having a long talk to the American pilots who were here with the Fill aircraft that was on ground display as part of the visiting force of Fill aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force celebrations. Those pilots made some most interesting comments about the Fill. I certainly do not intend to repeat them in full but I wish to mention some of the comments made to me by these fellows who fly the aeroplane. Tremendous competition exists in the United States Air Force among pilots to join the FI 1 1 squadron. As an all weather fighter bomber, the Fill has no superior in the world today. The TFR sysem which gives it an automatic low level flying capability at high speed is without equal and its general radar system also is without equal in any aircraft flying at present. 
I turn now to comparisons between the Fill and the F4, that is, the Phantom. In some respects the Fill will carry approximately twice the load that the F4 will carry. The range of the Fill is much greater. The F4 has not the automatic low flying capabilities of the Fill. On the question of the future of these aircraft in the United States Air Force, these pilots were of the opinion that it would last the USAF for another 10 years. No aircraft likely to equal the Fill was on the drawing board. These pilots said that the Fill was indeed a fine aircraft. These pilots are the people who are actually flying these aircraft every day. We have heard arguments as to the serviceability of the Fill, One pilot pointed out to me that he had flown his aircraft twice a week for 6 months and had had no unserviceability problems with it. This was a strong point in his comments. 
A number of statements have been made by various Opposition speakers about the purchase of this aircraft. The Government entered into the contract to purchase this aircraft on the advice of its technical experts. Would the Labor Party have ignored such advice at that time? If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  had been Minister for Defence in a Labor Government at the time would he have ignored the advice of his technical experts in the RAAF. 
The expert advice from the RAAF was that the Government should buy the FI 1 1 aircraft. 
The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  dealt completely with the accident record of the aircraft. He pointed out to the House quite correctly that each aircraft crash is not necessarily the fault of the aircraft involved. In fact, those of us who have been connected with flying over many years know very well that pilot error was the cause of over 90 per cent of accidents, during the 1939-45 War, anyway. The crash of an aircraft is not necessarily the fault of that aircraft. 
Honourable members opposite have talked about the cost of the aircraft. Of course it is expensive. Any aircraft or any modern weapons system with such capabilities is naturally very expensive. As I said, the Government has never hidden the fact that the Fill has been troubled and is still troubled with technical problems, particularly the wing carry-through box. But it must be remembered that a wing carrythrough box has never failed in the air. It has failed on the ground. It must be remembered also that the RAAF has ordered a different type of aircraft. At present the USAF is actively flying the FI IIA, the type that was in Australia, day after day, and week after week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In addition to providing artificial limbs, appliances and footwear for Repatriation beneficiaries, Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres provide for the requirements of other Government departments and instrumentalities and, to the extent that surplus production can be allotted, artificial limbs and appliances may be provided for private patients who cannot be satisfactorily fitted elsewhere, and for State Government departments and philanthropic organisations. In addition, the care of children born with congenital deformities as a result of the drug, Thalidomide, is undertaken in conjunction with the respective State Health departments. 
The cost of manufacture of each appliance varies depending upon the requirements in each individual case. 
In the case of limbs and appliances provided for children deformed through Thalidomide, half the cost is borne by the Commonwealth, with the other half being recoverable from the State Health departments. In all other cases where limbs or appliances are provided for private patients (including those referred by philanthropic organisations or State Government departments) the actual cost of the limb or appliance is recoverable from either the patient himself or the referring organisation. 
Limbs and appliances are provided to patients referred by philanthropic organisations or State Government departments on receipt of an official order, and the actual cost is recovered on completion and acceptance of the limb or appliance. In other cases where a private patient is provided with a limb or appliance the commencement of manufacture is dependent upon receipt of payment of an amount representing the estimated cost of the limb or appliance, with the balance being adjusted on completion and acceptance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated, on current charges, that the cost of insuring the wives concerned would be $241,500 for a full year. This estimate is based on providing for hospitalisation in public wards, as is available under the pensioner medical service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that the cost of increasing the repatriation funeral grant from $50 to $200 would be $1.13m for the full year. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following -answer -to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) See attached list. 
The areas visited are shown on the attached list. The object of each flight was to meet commitments associated with parliamentary and ministerial responsibilities. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) See attached list. 
The areas visited are shown on the attached list. The object of each flight was to meet commitments associated with parliamentary responsibilities. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) In the Royal Australian Air Force Aborigines are treated as members of the community, race is not recorded on enlistment and there are no special statistics kept of their number, rank, category or progress in the Service. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The three Royal Australian Air Force officers referred to were arrested on 29th June 1970 by officers of the RAAF Provost Service. 
Following their arrest on the morning of 29th June 1970 the three officers were escorted to RAAF Base Laverton where two charges against them of failing to obey a lawful command and being absent without leave were heard by the Commanding Officer Base Squadron Laverton. Later that morning they were placed in open arrest. From and inclusive of 7th July 1970 the three officers were held in open arrest during normal working hours only and were permitted to leave the Base and return home at stand-down each evening. On 9th July 1970 the Air Officer Commanding Headquarters Support Command the Convening Authority, directed trial by General Court Martial on 21st July 1970. 
Yes. 
The findings of the court martial were referred to the Convening Authority on 7th August 1970 and on 11th August 1970 the Judge Advocate General submitted his opinion in writing to the Convening Authority for consideration. On 11th August 1970 the Convening Authority took the decision that the court martial be dissolved and the charges dismissed. That decision was communicated to the Defending Officer of Swinnerton on 11th August 1970. On 18th August 1970, following consultation with my Department, the Convening Authority issued a press statement confirming his decision of 11th August 1970 and making it a matter of Public record that no further action would be taken in relation to the charges against the. three officers. 
Letters to the three officers dated 10th December 1970 signed by the Secretary, Air Board, confirmed the decision previously conveyed to the Defending Officer and published in the press, that it was not intended to take any further action in relation to the charges against the three officers. Those letters also advised the officers of the decision of the Air Board with regard to their future status in the RAAF. 
No. 
See answer to question (6). 
During the first 3 days of the court martial proceedings (i.e. 21st to 23rd July 1970 inclusive), the Secretary of my Department was represented by an officer of the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office. In addition a senior officer of my department attended and gave evidence with regard to certain documents listed in the subpoena served on the Secretary of my Department. On 23rd July 1970 the court martial was adjourned to enable the Secretary of my Department to obtain legal advice as to his liability to appear before the court in person and to produce certain other documents listed in the subpoena. The court was reconvened on 3rd August 1970 when the Secretary of my Department did attend in person. 
Flying Officers Prins and Bond wrote to my Department requesting that consideration be given to payment of compensation of unspecified amounts in respect of alleged loss of wages and other matters. They were advised that my Department does not consider that there is any valid reason for the payment of such compensation. It is relevant to state that, following their arrival at RAAF Base Laverton on 29th June 1970 the three officers refused to furnish information necessary for completion of the documents that would have enabled them to receive Air Force Pay. 
No. 
So far as I am aware, no member or exmember of any part of the Defence Force, and indeed no person in Australia, is subject to arbitrary arrest and detention at any lime. 
There is no action required. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are six University Squadrons in the Royal Australian Air Force, one located in each State Capital City. 
The Squadron strengths are: 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As at 18th February 1971 the mustering of Leading Musician was allocated to pay group 9. An Aircraftman in this group receives an active pay rate of $52.57 per week. This rate converts to $57.26 per week, for purposes of comparison with civilian rates. (In arriving at this comparative rate adjustments are made to recognise the provision of rations and quarters at public expense, and the value of saving in civilian clothing upkeep, while the element in active pay for service disabilities and other special service emoluments are disregarded). 
Following a review in 1967-68 the rates of pay for RAAF musicians were adjusted to equate the margin for skill paid to a theatre musician under the Musicians Award, giving group 9 rates of pay. In 1969 it was decided to form 2 Regional Bands in addition to the RAAF Central Band: The majority of the musicians to be employed in the Regional Bands would not be required to attain the same skill level as those in the Central Band. A new mustering known as Musician was introduced with pay group 7 effective from 22nd August 1969. The existing Musician mustering was re-named Leading Musician and remained on group 9, i.e. the higher skilled Central Band musicians became Leading Musician Croup 9 and new recruits with lesser skills became Musician Group 7 Both musterings are now in group 15, see answer to question 6. 
The difference in pay between Group 7 and Group 9 is $3.85 per week. 
The ABC Musicians Determination No. 45 of 1950 governs pay rates for the ABC Symphony Orchestras. This Determination covers many different conditions; however, paragraph 5 states: 
The minimum rates of pay of members of the applicant organisation employed by the commission in its orchestras shall be as follows: 
Employees engaged by the week in orchestras, the working hours of which are 30 hours per week: 
Base Grade musician - $119-10 per week 
Principal - $135.40 per week 
Leader - $169.30 per week 
Employees engaged by the week in orchestras, the working hours of which are 24 hours per week: 
Base Grade Musician - $95.20 per week 
Principal - $108.40 per week. 
Leader- $135.40 per week 
The Commission may, at its discretion, pay allowances in addition to the minimum rates prescribed in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of this clause. 
Losses of members of the RAAF Central Band from 1st January 1970 to 8th May 1971 are: 
Termination of period of enlistment - 8 personnel 
Medically unfit for further service - 1 member 
On request with 90 days notice - 2 personnel 
Pay adjustments for RAAF musicians have recently been approved. Under this approval, which has been given without prejudice to further consideration of pay alignments and final groupings, both Leading Musicians and Musicians in the RAAF became group 15 musterings with an active pay rate of $64.05 per week, which converts to a rate of $68.74 per week, for comparison with civilian rates. 
The pay adjustments are retrospective, payable from 8th April 1970. 
* Defence Equipment  (Question No. 1486) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that the additional cost involved in the payment ot special rate pensions would be $S.69m for the full year, but there would be additional consequential costs associated with the payment of special rate sustenance allowances of approximately $0.63m. 
In my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Air, pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air 
Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965, I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no Departmental records to show the number of private motor vehicles driven by Royal Australian Air Force personnel, that are involved in accidents. 
(a) (i) Not available. 
Not available, 
(i) The only statistics kept for 1968, 1969 and 1970 in regard to accidents involving RAAF personnel in privately owned vehicles are those relating to injuries sufficient to cause hospitalization or loss of time from work or both and these are as follows: 
1968- 206 
1969- 233 
1970- 230 
The following number of deaths of RAAF personnel arose from private motor vehicle accidents in the respective years: 
1968- 33 
1969- 14 
1970- 21 
Accidents in private motor vehicles involving RAAF personnel normally occur in off-duty hours and charges would be laid and recorded by civil authorities. 
The Minister for Ail has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
See attached schedule 'A'. 
Formal recruiting campaigns are conducted only in Australia and the United Kingdom. 
See attached schedule 'B 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Economies have been effected in the Air Training Corps. Weekend camps and bivouacs have been cancelled and the May school holiday camps have been deferred. It is hoped that the school holiday, camps can be run in August but this will depend upon the financial situation at that time. 
There has been no curtailment of routine training commitments such as weekly parades and Air Training Corps with bands continue to practice at weekends. 
For the information of honourable members I present the official report of the Australian parliamentary delegation to Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals in the repatriation war compensation field. The various improvements to existing pensions and allowances which were foreshadowed in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  are incorporated in the Bill now before the House. These will benefit the more seriously disabled ex-servicemen and the widows and children of deceased exservicemen whose death was related to war service. Specifically the Bill provides for increased payments to ex-servicemen who are totally incapacitated from war related disabilities or tuberculosis; to those whose incapacity allows them to work only part time or intermittently; to those who need the assistance of an attendant; to those who have lost one or more limbs or an eye; and to war widows and the children of ex-servicemen whose death was related to war service. The Schedules to the Repatriation Act express pension rates in fortnightly amounts, but it has long been the practice for honourable members to refer to weekly amounts. I shall continue that practice in explaining benefit changes. 
I shall now proceed to explain the proposed changes in more detail. The special (TPI) rate, which is payable not only to the totally and permanently disabled, but also to the war blinded and the temporarily totally incapacitated, will be increased by $3.50 to $42.50 a week. The intermediate rate of pension, which is payable to those whose incapacity from war related disabilities or tuberculosis enables them to work only part time or intermittently, and who are consequently unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by $1.75 to $30.25 a week. Attendants allowances payable in addition to war pension to the most severely disabled ex-servicemen are to be increased. The higher rate of $14, payable to the war blinded who are also afflicted with total loss of speech or total deafness, and to those who have had both arms amputated, is to be increased by $2 to $16 a week. The lower rate of $8.50, which is payable to those who are blind, paralysed or have suffered severe amputations, is to be increased by $1 to $9.50 a week. 
In keeping with the tenor of the foregoing proposals, which provide improved benefits for the more seriously incapacitated, increased payments are also proposed for all those who have lost one or more limbs or an eye. Those amputees who have always been paid the equivalent of the special (TPI) rate will receive an increase of $3.50 a week. Amounts which are, in addition to pension, payable in respect of other amputations or the loss of an eye will be increased by various amounts according to the degree of incapacity suffered. The new amounts payable, will range from $1.70 to $11.20 a week. I should add that the $11.20 a week has been raised by $4.10 in this Bill. Increases, are also proposed in rates payable to war widows, to their children, and to those children who have lost both parents. For war widows themselves, the Bill provides an increase of $1.25 raising the basic rate to $17.25 a week. For the first child of an ex-serviceman whose death was related to war service, an increase of $1 a week will be payable, while the rate payable in respect of second and subsequent children will be increased by $2 a week. The new rates for all these children will be $7 a week. For a child who has lost both parents, the increase will be $2 and the new rate will be $14 a week. 
As in the past, service pensioners are to receive the benefit of increases in age and invalid pension rates. This Bill contains a minor amendment necessary this year to incorporate into repatriation legislation those increases which do not apply automatically. Honourable members will no doubt appreciate that, although all the war compensation increases proposed in this Bill will be paid in full, the consequent increase in income may affect those also in receipt of means test pensions. For those whose means test pensions are reduced because of their war pension increases, the reduction will vary between 10c and $1, giving an overall result of an increase. For example, a single TPI pensioner in receipt of a service pension will receive an aggregate increase of between $2.50 and $3.40 a week in his total payment, that is, with his TPI payment and the service pension. On the other hand, a TPI pensioner with a wife and 2 children, who also receives a service pension, but with no other means, will receive a total family increase of $5.12 a week. This is because of various liberalisations introduced into the means test pension provisions by this Government in recent years which allow some means test pensioners to receive increases in those pensions as well as the full amount of their war pension increases. 
The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payment to which the Bill gives effect. The foregoing amendments will come into force on the date on which the amending Act receives royal assent and the pension increases will be paid on and from the first pension payday thereafter. A table which sets out the repatriation Budget details in respect of war pensions and allowances has been prepared and, for the convenience of honourable members, is being circulated with copies of this speech. The measures I have outlined, together with increases granted last April, represent further significant advances in repatriation measures this year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
Considerable progress has been made towards the appointment of a  chairman  to conduct the inquiry and also in the finalising of the terms of reference. I am sure that the House will understand that an appropriate person to chair the inquiry, coming from the judiciary, would not be available at a moment's notice or even at short notice and that the terms of reference would have to be the subject of considerable discussion and consideration both by the department concerned and the Government. But I assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the House that I hope to be in a position to announce both the  chairman  of the inquiry and the terms of reference in the near future. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Canberra bomber was within the air space of South Vietnam when  it  was shot down by North Vietnamese ground forces on 14th March 1971. 
RAAF: Point Cook School of Languages (Question No.  3612) 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following languages are currently taught at the Royal Australian Air Force School of Languages: 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) 1971 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each 
Bill at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
 Anyone listening to honourable members opposite, either in this chamber or over the radio, would have heard only a lot of criticism and not one precise proposal put forward. It has been a repeat performance of the debate on the Repatriation Bill last year. Before I come to the main substance of my remarks. I want to comment on the reference by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  to the time allowed for this debate. This debate was due to commence not at  2.30  this afternoon, as it did, but at  11.30  this morning. But the Australian Labor Party deliberately delayed the House for  1)  hours this morning and so deprived some honourable members of the opportunity to speak on the Repatriation Bill. The honourable member for Lang referred to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  The honourable member for Mallee was to speak in the debate, but because the House is to rise, as we all know, at approximately  4  o'clock he decided that he would forgo his opportunity to speak. 
I gave the honourable member for Lang permission to incorporate in Hansard the Labor Party's policy on repatriation. He showed it to me and I said that he could have it incorporated in Hansard. As the honourable member for Mallee has mentioned to me, the incorporation of a policy in Hansard means nothing at all; it is performance that counts. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was .speaking I got a piece of paper and headed it  'Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's proposals in precise form'. I thought that I would make a note of them as he spoke- What did I finish with? A blank sheet of paper. Not one proposal came from him. I view him as the shadow Minister for Repatriation and the Opposition's chief spokesman on repatriation matters, which he is. But in the 30 minutes for which he spoke he did not give the Australian public or the ex-servicemen's organisations of this country any indication at all of what the Labor Party would do for ex-servicemen if it were in office. In the last 2 minutes of his speech he mentioned the 1971 Returned Services League war compensation plan. Every Opposition  speaker  indicated his strong support for this great returned servicemen's organisation. 
Just let me deal with some of the comments made by Opposition speakers and indicate their degree of sincerity. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that no attention has been given by the Government to the 1971 war compensation plan submitted by the RSL. This is nol correct. The principal point of that plan was the establishment of an independent, nonparliamentary inquiry into the repatriation system. The Government has decided to have this. If we look at the terms of the amendment moved by the Opposition and supported by every Opposition  speaker,  as one of its supporters said, we find that it is diametrically opposed to the No. 1 priority contained in the RSL's 1971 war compensation plan. The amendment seeks an allparty joint select committee: the RSL sought an independent, non-parliamentary inquiry, because it wanted the matter lifted out of the realm of politics and for other reasons. Nevertheless, part of the amendment moved by the Opposition is diametrically opposed to the RSL's plan which Labor Party speakers said they supported. 
Great play was made on the amount of the pension for the totally and permanently incapacitated. The general theme running through the comments of the Opposition was that the TPI pension is S42.50 while the minimum wage is $46.40. and that the RSL in its war compensation plan has asked for at least an amount equivalent to the minimum wage. Let us just deal with 2 or 3 factors concerning this. If we put all the cards on the table, we see that the basic rate of $42.50 for the TPI is free of income tax, as it should be, but the minimum wage is not. If we take this into consideration, for the single man the net TPI rate is $42.50 and the net minimum wage is $41.05. 1 am not pretending that the TPI war compensation rate should not be higher but I am saying that if it is compared with the minimum wage we should put all the cards on the table. Let us realise that the TPI pension is tax free. 
I have dealt with  the  single TPI pension. The rate for a married TPI pensioner with 2 Children is $49.30 while the net minimum wage of a married person with 2 children, after payment of income tax, is $43.55. So there is a difference of $6 in round figures. According to my figures, the TPI rate paid to a married man with 2 children is about $6 a week more than the minimum wage. In addition to. the actual sum paid, of course, there are all the fringe benefits available to every TPI pensioner. These fringe benefits include full medical treatment, eligibility for sales tax exemptions and eligibility for a concession in respect of radio and television licences. It is not correct to use the argument of $42.50 versus $46. 
Mention has been made of the annual report of the Repatriation Department not being available for this debate. Regulation 122 of the Repatriation Act requires the Repatriation Commission to submit annually a report to the Minister, but no time is laid down for the presentation of this report. However, it has been traditionally presented before the Estimates debate and not before the Budget debate. For the last 3 years the report has been presented at about this time, and it will be tabled next week. 
-No. I want to mention briefly the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  Since 1 have had the honour of being a Minister I have always appreciated their dedication to the welfare of ex-servicemen. I have appreciated the sincerity of the honourable member for McMillan in saying that any war pension should not be taken into consideration when the means test is applied. 1 can understand his argument. I am sure that we all realise that there is some weight attached to it but the Government is unable to agree. Honourable members have spoken in this debate about the annual report, and why there has been a delay in appointing a  chairman  and arranging the terms of reference for an inquiry into the repatriation system. I inform honourable members, particularly those on the Opposition side, that the officers of the Repatriation Department have had tremendous strains placed on them in the last 6 to 9 months. I pay a special tribute to the officers in the Central Office, not only the senior officers but also the other staff within the Department who have handled over 600 letters a month and have dealt with the difficult matters relating to the departmental inquiry, the preparation of information for the Senate inquiry with the Estimates, the preparation of the relevant section of the Budget and of minutes relating to a wide range of matters within the repatriation field. A great deal of work is involved in the Repatriation Department. 
While I am paying tributes I want to pay a brief tribute to the Returned Services League and the other ex-service organisations which have been of great assistance to me even though, at times, they may have been critical. That is their right. I recognise their right to be critical at times. This is the job of these organisations, but I do thank them for their cooperation and the way in which we have been able to consult together. I have not sufficient time in this debate to deal with all I wished to raise and those matters raised today by the Opposition, but I point out that this Budget contains significant adjustments in repatriation benefits. Everyone in this Parliament  and  outside  it  knows that only a limited amount of money is available to the Government, and that that money comes from the taxpayers. Having listened to the debate today, the people will know that the Australian Labor Party does not have a specific proposal either as to how it would allocate the money or, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said last night, even how the money would be raised. The fact is that in this Budget and in the last Budget the TPI pension rate has been increased by $338 a year, and the war widow with 2 children will receive an additional $369 tax free. The increased benefits in this Budget will raise the total expenditure for the Repatriation Department from $3 3 9m to S3 80m. I do not think that the Labor Party could match that, let alone beat it. However I would wish that the Labor Party would tell the people, firstly, how  it  would allocate the money  and,  secondly and more importantly, where  it  would get the money. I reject the amendment completely. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Third Reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Holten)  read  a  third time. 
House adjourned at 4.7 p.m. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1971 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I move: 
That the Committee of Privileges, when considering the matters referred to it on 7th and 13th September 1971, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
The Committee in undertaking its inquiries wishes to have this power granted to it and in accordance with practice the motion is proposed for the concurrence of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
27th May 1971. 
, (3) and (4) I expect to make an announcement soon. 
It is probable that some evidence will bo taken in public but this will depend to some degree on the terms of reference and the general framework of the inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average costs per occupied bed day in Repatriation General Hospitals in each State were: 
As many honourable members in the House are. well aware, the station at Point Cook has had a long and historic existence as a base for the Royal Australian Air Force. Many members who served there during the war would be inclined to agree with some of the comments by the honourable member for Mallee about climatic conditions at certain times of the year, and would certainly agree that Mildura would have a distinct climatic advantage over Point Cook at those times of the year. Honourable members also would be aware - some personally - that an operational training unit was stationed at Mildura during the Second World War and as such that city made a very valuable contribution to Australia's war effort. I have no detailed information on the matter raised by the honourable member for Mallee as to whether there is to be any move from Point Cook, but I will make .sure his interest and his proposal are made known to my colleague in another place. 
I want to make a few brief comments on the Bill in my capacity as Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who has just resumed his seat stressed 2 very important points. He said first of all that the Bill was breaking new ground, that there was a need for Australia to be brave and that this was an indication that we were. This is good. The second point he made, which is very important, related to the necessity to cooperate with financial institutions rather than to coerce or force them into taking any financial action. 
The comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  showed a sensible approach to the legislation. One or two of the points that he raised may give the wrong impression as far as the comparison between Australian and British exports are concerned. The honourable member referred to the high proportion of United Kingdom trade covered by the Exports Credits Guarantee Department in Britain. He said that it covered a third of Britain's total exports and that a lower proportion of Australian exports were covered by the similar body here. But, of course, Britain is a more substantial exporter of manufactured products than is Australia. 
I am sorry. I did not pick it up. I just wanted to place the situation on record. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that the measure was a venturesome approach to increasing our exports which we need to take for the good of Australia. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  made one particular point on which I should comment. He called for an early statement on the future of export incentives after 30th June 1973. I want to assure the honourable member for Isaacs that the Government is fully aware of the need for an early statement on the future of export incentives and that the matter is at present being studied closely by the relevant departments. The subject is under review by the Export Development Council. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  made a few points on which 1 should comment. He concluded by saying, quite correctly, that the Minister for Trade and Industry was not present in the chamber. I am representing the Minister as his Assistant Minister. It is impossible for the Minister to be here because he has to attend to other Ministerial duties at the present time. Anyway, he has already done his job, fundamentally, by promoting and introducing this very important and very progressive piece of legislation. The honourable member for Riverina said that primary exports were not covered by the legislation. I will comment on that later. He went on to say that in Australia 71 per cent of mining companies are foreign controlled. Whenever I hear the honourable member for Riverina mention this matter of foreign control of Australia's assets am always reminded of the fact that quite some years ago a New South Wales Labor Government set up an office in New York for the express purpose of attracting overseas capital to Australia. 
I do not know whether the honourable member when he was in the State House fought for the closure of that office to prevent it from attracting overseas capital to Australia. It is also well to remember that the Western Australian Labor Government was the first to open up the Esperance project in Western Australia and it received a lot of United States capital to develop that area. The honourable member said that the Commissioner was being hobbled. It is not correct to say that the criteria laid down for action by the Commissioner is of a strait-jacket nature. It is impossible for the Government to legislate to meet all possible commercial situations. The Minister has a discretionary authority on request from the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. Neither the Commissioner nor the Corporation is hobbled at all under the terms laid down in the legislation. In fact the whole nature of the scheme was discussed in detail with the Commissioner of EPIC. The eligibility criteria and operational procedures were decided upon in the light of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation's recommendations based on its experience and the experience of overseas credit insurance organisations. Therefore it is not correct that the Commissioner or the Corporation is hobbled by either these provisions or other provisions of the legislation. 
The honourable member for Riverina mentioned also New Zealand credit facilities, implying that buyers credit was available for the sale of wool in New Zealand whereas it was not available here. This once again is not correct. The New Zealand wool industry, the New Zealand Government or any other New Zealand organisation has no buyers credit scheme. Suppliers terms in New Zealand are not as good as those available in Australia. Regarding general assistance to primary producers, which is one of the main themes of the honourable member's arguments, considerable assistance is given to primary producers through the EPIC organisation. Buyers credit as against suppliers credit is to be limited to capital goods under this legislation and is not to be available in respect of primary products. The situation is that there is virtually no demand for buyers credit in respect of primary products. Since this legislation has been on the table of the House and known to the public, to my knowledge no requests from primary producer organisations, groups of primary producers or other people connected with primary products have been made to receive buyers credit under this legislation. That is the fact as I understand it. One of the reasons why buyers credit is probably not in demand is that primary products normally are sold for cash or on short term credit usually of about 180 days, the main exception being credit for wheat sales, which is up to 3 years. 
I think it is worth placing on record very briefly the performance last year of EPIC in relation to suppliers credit, which is deemed to be more suitable and which is available. In 1970-71 EPIC insured $95m worth of wheat sales through both the Australian Wheat Board and private traders,$63m worth of wool sales through wool exporters, and$49m worthof processed food stuff sales through food exporters. So the assistance to the wool industry in terms of suppliers credit totalled, in round figures, $112m;$41m was made available to food exporters for processed foodstuffs; $28m was made available for dairy products through the Australian Dairy Produce Board in the main, and $14m was made available to meat exporters. So the problem that is intended to be removed by buyers credit under this legislation is not encountered to any extent by the exporters of primary products. It is in the capital goods field where we have a combination ef high value investment and long term credit that buyers credit is needed. Of course, the amount of credit varies. Under this legislation it may be $200,000 or more. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, some discretion could be needed to decide special cases if the transaction is a little less. 
To summarise this situation, it should be made quite clear that suppliers credit is not in demand by exporters of primary products. This legislation is aimed at high value capital goods sold on long term credit which can involve a great deal of money and a great deal of risk for the people who are exporting them. If the provisions of this legislation were not available Australia would miss out on very valuable export income. As was pointed out in the case of Bougainville, Australia earned something like $26m in export income because of the insurance facilities that were available. The provisions of this Bill relate to capital goods which have the combination of high value and long term credit up to 10 years. The Bill is designed to meet world competition by overseas exporters which our primary producers do not face as do the manufacturers in particular. This is the case, especially in less-developed countries. The Government, even though it has introduced this legislation and thinks it is very satisfactory, is not content to rest on its laurels. As I have already said in answer to the query from the honourable member for Isaacs, the export incentive scheme is under review and it is hopeful that some action in this area may be taken in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Proposals to modify aircraft are originated in 3 ways, i.e. by: 
the original manufacturer; 
the local manufacturer, or 
the user. 
These proposals may be accepted or rejected. 
As at 24th February 1971, 532 modifications have been accepted for Mirage aircraft and 172 for Macchi aircraft since definition of the basic aircraft specifications. A list of these modifications has been separately provided to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. In addition there have been 19 Mirage modifications and 2 Macchi modifications which have not been listed for security reasons. Not all modifications are incorporated in all of the aircraft of one type in the inventory. 
by leave - Honourable members will be aware that in May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced the Goverment's intention to institute an independent non-parliamentary inquiry into the rationale and principles of the repatriation system. This decision was in some measure due to representations made from time to time, particularly by the Returned Services League of Australia, other exservicemen's organisations and the public, and to the preliminary work done on the departmental review. 
Consideration then had to be given to the selection of a suitable person to conduct the inquiry, to the appointment of people to assist him and to the exact terms of reference. 
I am pleased to inform the House that the Government decided to invite the Honourable  Mr Justice  P. B. Toose, C.B.E., of the Supreme Court of New South Wales to conduct the inquiry and that he has accepted this invitation. The Government is fortunate to secure the services of this distinguished gentleman and I wish to record my appreciation of the action of the New South Wales Government which has agreed to make  Mr Justice  Toose available.  Mr Justice  Toose has a wide legal and Army background and is eminently suited to the task. He had a distinguished career at the Bar which culminated in his appointment to the Supreme Court Bench, firstly as an acting justice in 1966 to 1967 and subsequently to a permanent appointment in June 1969. He is the author of some wellknown legal textbooks and, prior to his elevation to the Bench, took a great interest in a number of professional and community matters including the Bar Association of New South Wales, the Australian Law Council, the International Commission of Jurists and International Legal Aid Association. He was an Australian delegate to the First World Peace Through Law Conference and has been a  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Committee of the Law Council of Australia, and Secretary to the General Law Association for Asia and the West Pacific.  His  other community interests have included Vice-Presidency of the Marriage Guidance Council in New South Wales from 1963 to 1968, membership of the New South Wales Medical Board from 1966 until his appointment to the bench, and membership of the Asthma Foundation. 
Turning to his war service,  Mr Justice  Toose served throughout the 1939-45 war. He was a gunner in the Citizen Military Forces prior to the outbreak of the war and during his service rose to the rank of major in the Royal Australian Artillery, Second Australian Imperial Forces. He was in command of the 2/ 17th Light Airborne Anti-Aircraft Battery in New Guinea and Brigade  Major with  the Anti-Aircraft Defence, New Guinea Force administration command. He also commanded in New Guinea the 52nd Composite Anti-Aircraft Regiment and for a time served with the American Forces Artillery in New Guinea. Finally, he is Patron of the 52nd Regiment Association and is  President  of the 2/ 17th Light Airborne Anti-Aircraft Battery Association. I am confident that the appointment of  Mr Justice  Toose will be well received. 
The terms of reference for the inquiry are: 
Make a comprehensive review of the Australian repatriation system, with the object of setting out the principles that have governed its operation over the years, as provided for in the Repatriation Act 1920-1971 and as extended in the Interim Forces Benefits Act 1947-1966, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956-1966 and the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962- 1968. 
Enunciate the principles of the Australian repatriation system, including any necessary modifications of existing principles, that should apply, in relation to service in wars and warlike operations, to compensation of individuals for incapacity or death and to service pensions. 
Recommend means by which the complexity of the repatriation legislation might be reduced and public understanding of the legislation improved. 
Make such other recommendations and observations in relation to the rationale, efficacy and simplification of the repatriation system referred to in paragraph 1, as the  Chairman  of the inquiry deems necessary or desirable, other than recommendations in relation to levels and actual rates of pensions, allowances and benefits. 
Collate and report any views presented to the inquiry on the levels or actual rates of war pensions and allowances. 
Report to the Minister for Repatriation on the above. 
Requests were made to the Government that any independent inquiry should make specific recommendations on rates of pensions. However, the Government decided instead that it would include in the report the collation and presentation of views put to the inquiry on pension rates. The major reasons for the decision on this particular aspect were that it will make known the views of the ex-servicemen's organisations and the public on pension rates, allowances and benefits; and that in view of the very large sums of money involved in even minor changes in rates payable to over 500,000 clients of the Department, it was considered inappropriate to place on the  Chairman  of this inquiry the heavy responsibility of reaching conclusions on matters involving such large amounts of Commonwealth money. 
At relevant stages of the inquiry the  Chairman  will have available other eminent people of appropriate diverse experience to assist him on a part time basis. These people will be selected as and when the need arises during the course of the inquiry. 
The inquiry will commence as soon as  His  Honour can be relieved of his present judicial duties. Interested persons or organisations will be invited to submit in writing, in the first instance, any evidence they wish to place before the inquiry. This will be done by advertisement in the Press around Australia. The  Chairman  of the inquiry may then invite persons or representatives of organisations to give evidence in person, and he will have a discretion to hear evidence either at a public hearing or in private. The dates and places for public hearings will be notified in the Press. In addition to obtaining evidence in this way the  Chairman  will be free to pursue such other lines of inquiry as he sees fit. In conclusion, I assure the House that when the report is submitted to me it will receive careful consideration by the Government and myself. I present the following paper: 
Independent Non-Parliamentary Inquiry into the Repatriation System - Ministerial Statement, 7th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Pursuant to. section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1971, I present the reports - of - War - Pensions - Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the year ended 30th June 1971 and No. 5 in respect of the period 1st July 1970 to 21st June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force  Veterans'  Residences Act 1953-65 I  presentthe  annual report of the Royal Australian AirForce Veterans' Residences Trust for theyear ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For many years the policy of the Government has been to ensure, encourage and sustain the development in Australia of an efficient automotive industry producing motor cars with a maximum Australian content. 
 I am not in a position to give the honourable member an assurance that there will be a full Tariff Board inquiry into the automotive industry, in answering the question asked by the honourable member for Wentworth yesterday, I said that a review was being made of the motor vehicle plans scheme, not the whole of the automotive vehicle manufacturing industry which does have an effective rate of duty approximating the figure that the honourable member gave, although 1 was under the impression that the actual rate was 45 per cent. This level of protection has been arrived at as a result of a Tariff Board inquiry. 
I think that 1 should mention here that the Australian automotive industry is not the only automotive industry in the world that is protected from overseas competition by tariffs, exchange control, quantitative restrictions or import licensing. The duty that applies at present on motor vehicles in Australia has been arrived at after a full Tariff Board inquiry. I conclude by repeating that the matter to which I referred in particular in answer to the honourable member for Wentworth yesterday was a review of the motor vehicle plans scheme and not of the whole of the automotive industry. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970, I present the first annual report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation for the period 1st October 1970 to 30th June 1971. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The major reason why the Government cannot accept this amendment is that, if it refers to what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in answer to a question on 23rd November, it is a deliberate misquotation of what the Prime Minister said. The amendment says 'the promise of the Prime Minister that Australian troops will not again be involved in IndoChina.' What the Prime Minister did say, as recorded at page 3455 of Hansard, was: 
But on this matter I will now make a positive statement: Long ago I was asked whether we would be prepared to send training personnel to Cambodia, and I immediately gave the answer no. Consequently, that became a decision and was confirmed and accepted by the Government. We have never been prepared to send training personnel to Cambodia. We are not prepared to send them, and we are not prepared to permit Australian fighting troops to go to either South Vietnam or Cambodia. 
The Prime Minister did not say that Australian troops will not again be involved in Indo-China and therefore the Government cannot accept the amendment, on the major ground that it is a complete misquotation of what the Prime Minister actually said. 
I want to congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  on his comments in this debate. I support them entirely and 1 will not reiterate them. I commence my contribution to this discussion by repeating the cause of it. Yesterday the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  moved the following motion in the Senate: 
This Senate of the Australian Parliament places on record its appreciation and gratitude to the  personnel of all Australian forces who served in the Vietnam conflict for their courage, dedication and sense of duty. 
Particularly do we express our sympathy to the relatives of those Australians who gave their lives during this conflict. 
The motion was passed by the Senate but not without a great deal of political comment which had nothing to do with its meaning. In my comments I do not intend to demean the sentiments contained in  Senator Gair's  motion by indulging in political dogmas and so attempting to obtain some cheap political advantage out of what is a sincerely expressed tribute to the men and women of our fighting forces for their efforts in Vietnam. As Minister for Repatriation I have the ministerial responsibility for the Department which over the last SO years has administered the legislation covering the whole spectrum of the entitlements, including medical treatment, of ex-servicemen and women who have served Australia in various conflicts. It is mainly in this capacity that I want to associate myself and the Government with this well deserved tribute which was expressed by  Senator Gair  yesterday in the Senate. 
I had wished to confine my remarks solely to the tribute. However, because of comments made in the Senate yesterday both at question time and during the debate on this matter, and also because of the comments of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  during this debate, I think it appropriate that I should mention the entitlements available under the rehabilitation section of repatriation and the qualifying conditions to those entitlements. There has been criticism of the benefits available to our armed forces. This is to be expected. It is never hard to find fault with something. It is easy for the Opposition to say that the Government ought to be more generous. If ever the Opposition becomes the Government it is really going to face a problem finding the finance to carry out all the promises it is making or implying. 
The repatriation and rehabilitation benefits available to special overseas service forces - these are mainly the people who served in Vietnam - and 'the qualifying conditions are fully and clearly set out in a readily available pamphlet which I have here titled 'Repatriation Benefits for Special 
Overseas Service'. Because many areas are covered in this pamphlet I will mention briefly only some fundamental facts. I stress that 1 am doing this only because certain queries have been raised during the course of this debate. My comments will be simply a factual statement of the situation. The first area is eligibility. Members of the forces and their dependants are eli'gible, if incapacity or death have either resulted from an occurrence or been contributed to or aggravated by special service. In the case of a member of the forces who is not actually on special service, repatriation benefits are provided for incapacity or death resulting from an occurrence - including the contracting of a disease - that resulted from action by hostile forces in an area outside Australia. 
Mention has been made of the benefits available compared with those available after the Second World War. Repatriation benefits for special service overseas are provided generally on the same basis and at the same rates as are provided for exservicemen of the 1939-45 war and, of course, 1914-18 war. On the rehabilitation aspect, re-establishment, education and vocational training are available for a national serviceman either on a full time or on a part time basis regardless of whether he served in Australia only or outside Australia. Periods of training are limited to one year full time or 2 years part time. Members of the permanent forces do not qualify for these benefits through the repatriation system but there are certain training benefits available to members of the permanent forces through their own Services departments. Also business and agricultural loans are available to national servicemen. The sums are comparable with those available after the Second World War, which were at that time $1,500 for a business loan and $3,000 for an agricultural loan. At the present time a sum of $3,000 is made available for a business loan and $6,000 for an agricultural loan. Statistically adjusted, the comparative value is slightly lower at the present time than it was in 1945. 
The basic difference between the 2 benefits available is that the training programme is for one year full time or 2 years part time whereas, after the 1939-45 War a complete course was available. 
There are reasons for this. The period of service of 2 years is relatively short as compared with that during the Second World War. There is a uniform age on enlistment. Ex-national servicemen do not have the same training needs, generally speaking, as the ex-servicemen from the Second World War. There is not now the national need, as there was subsequent to 1945, to train people over a very wide range of occupations. There is the opportunity - this is important - for any national serviceman to defer his call-up if he is undertaking a course of study or training which could reasonably be expected to be completed before national service. There is also the likelihood that most young servicemen will return to their former employment without suffering any substantial disadvantage because of the retention given by the reinstatement in employment provision in the Defence Act. After the Second World War only preferential employment provisions were available. 
Nevertheless the Government is keeping under review these benefits that are available to national servicemen. Any changes In this matter are primarily the responsibility - I ask honourable members to note this - of my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The fina! thing 1 wanted to say as far as the ex-Vietnam lads are concerned - excuse me for calling them lads, they seem like that to me - is that we have established a special liaison officer in each State to look after ex-servicemen who have returned from Vietnam. 
I appreciate being able to join with others in paying a tribute to the men and women of our armed Services who have fought in Vietnam. I feel personally qualified, to some degree, to do this because of my visit to South Vietnam last year and also because of my visits to repatriation hospitals, and conferences of the Returned Services League of Australia in particular, in my capacity as Minister for Repatriation. My experiences in these areas enable me to support to the fullest degree the words of the motion passed by the Senate. I can assure honourable members that it is a humbling experience to meet young men who have been wounded, some very severely, in the Vietnam conflict. Their fortitude and courage have amazed me. Of course, there have been some unhappy moments with these young men, but broadly speaking their cheerfulness and acceptance of their disabilities have been an inspiration and are to their everlasting credit. There will be a continuing review of the cases of those personnel severely wounded in Vietnam. But I want to point out that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition greatly exaggerated the situation when ite talked about the permanently maimed. At the moment there are 24 ex-Vietnam personnel receiving the special rate of war pension. The independent inquiry has been asked to look at this matter in great detail. 
J have also had the unhappy task, as have many other members in this House, of meeting the relatives of those who have been killed in battle. Speaking broadly once again, their attitude in the circumstances has been admirable and my sympathy goes to all these people. The members of our armed forces in Vietnam deserve our thanks. The personnel involved ranged from Regular Army professional .soldiers to national servicemen, and the indispensable nursing staff. During the time I was in Vietnam last year 1 was able to assess that this tribute is well justified. One could not help but be proud to be an Australian on hearing the universal comments of praise for our Service personnel. Senior officers of the United States, Vietnamese &lt;»nd Australian units all expressed the highest appreciation of the efforts, both military and civil, of the Australians. The position was concisely summarised by a top Vietnamese general when 1 asked him how he found Australian soldiers. Fie answered very simply: 'Wonderful', and he really meant it. There is no doubt in my mind that the presence and the conduct of our forces in Vietnam has done much to maintain and enhance our image in South East Asia. It is because of the experiences I have just outlined that 1 join with other honourable members in paying a sincere and humble tribute and acknowledging a debt of gratitude to the personnel of our armed Services who served in Vietnam. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler) (3.391- I join in the sentiments incorporated in the motion of gratitude to those who have served and to those who have not returned from the conflict in South Vietnam. At the same time 1 endorse the amendment that has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  Although I, with other members on this side of the Parliament, agree with what has been said in respect of the gratitude given to the men who have given their lives, some of them conscripted, which does not detract in any way from their magnificent courage, on an occasion like this one cannot help but place on record the condemnation of the Government that puts us into a conflict in which Australia should never have been involved. From the very commencement of this unfortunate, cruel and wicked war in Vietnam members on this side of the Parliament stood firm in their opposition to it because we knew the sacrifices many would be called upon to make, sacrifices that would bring suffering not only to the Vietnamese people but also to countless thousands of Australian homes. 
Consequently at every opportunity - during election campaigns and at other times - members of the other side of the House criticised this Party and its members for being disloyal, for being procommunist, for being opposed to Australia's security and all those things that went with it. Some members of this Party more than others were singled out for special mention and in a debate of this nature today I do not think it would be proper for me to pass by the opportunity to mention 2 members on this side in particular, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who stood up to a terrific battering as to their integrity, loyalty and courage from honourable members opposite because of their opposition to this conflict. In the main they were no different from most members of the Labor Party but today they must feel, with the Government withdrawing and with the position in South Vietnam worse than it was before this conflict started, satisfaction to know that their courage in opposing this Government's involvement of Australian men in the war in Vietnam has proved to be justified. fs it not tragic that while we are withdrawing from Vietnam and when we are realising the failure of that conflict this Government is keeping men in gaol, men who conscientiously refused to serve there and have proved how sincere they are by going to gaol for periods of up to 2 years? As we know, the Government was conned into entering this conflict. It was never invited in there by the South Vietnamese. It had its arm twisted by the American, authorities for political purposes. To the eternal discredit and shame of those who have run this country for 20 years 473-odd Australians lie dead today and almost 3,000 men have been maimed and wounded in a conflict in which we should never have been engaged and in which honourable members opposite know we were never invited to participate by the South Vietnamese. Therefore today there is a measure of hypocrisy about the Government. The Government is not thanking and expressing its gratitude to those who served and the relatives of those who lost their lives. This is a Democratic Labor Party motion. As the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said, the Government never even thought of giving them any thanks and if the DLP had not sponsored the motion it would not have been brought on here today. The Government has not brought it on out of gratitude to those who deserve it. The only reason it has been done is to make political capital and to put the Labor Party, as one might say, on the spot on this great issue. 
Right down the line the Government's altitude on the Vietnamese war has been contemptible, un-Australian and disloyal to the Australians who were called to serve there. To think that the Government introduced conscription to back up its plans after having its arm twisted is a disgrace to government in this country. The guilty men sit on the other side of the House. We were committed to blindly following American policy by that historic statement of 'All the way with LBJ'. What a great penalty we have paid for that slogan said on the lawns of the White House in Washington. But the day of reckoning has come and today this Government must acknowledge that it has failed in South Vietnam. It committed this country wrongly and the people will hold it responsible when the lime comes. Why, even now the Government wants to slide both ways in respect of the amendment we have moved. The weak excuse given by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  in respect of this matter was that what is contained in the amendment was not what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said about Indo-China. Does that mean that the Government is going to commit Australian troops to the paddy fields of Indo-China and other places in the future? Does that mean that in Cambodia and other places there will be Australian forces? We believe the Prime Minister has given an assurance to this Parliament that they will not be committed  to  Indo-China in the future. 
If the Minister for Repatriation has been truthful today this Government is again misleading the Australian people. The real reason why the Government will not support the Opposition amendment to this motion today is that the Government knows that the amendment is justified and should be passed by this Parliament. The Minister for Repatriation nearly made me sick a moment ago when he spoke of gratitude to ex-servicemen. There is only one way to show gratitude to ex-servicemen and that is to provide adequate pensions and housing, to look after the dependants of those who did not come back and to ensure that those who are suffering will have all that is necessary to keep body and soul together and to allow them to enjoy as best they can their way of life. 
Let us have a look at what the Returned Services League of Australia says about the great story the Minister told a few moments ago. 1 have with me a document which was put out by the RSL. I do not think that the League runs all over the country supporting Labor candidates. That has not been my experience. The document reads: 
Honoured in war . . . forgotten in peace. 
On the back of the document the following statement appears: 
The RSL urges you to make your protest now 
To your Parliamentary member. 
To the Press, Radio and TV. To the Public of Australia. 
Authorised by the 52nd National Congress of the Returned Services League of Australia . . . 
A quarter of a million copies of this document were distributed throughout the length and breadth of this country. It goes on: 
Theirs is not to reason why . . . give - so they live - not die . . . 
Then it states: 
The Commonwealth Government's neglect of War Pensions for incapacitated veterans must be resisted. 
It says: 
The present levels of war pensions are a disgrace to the Government, a disgrace to Australia and a betrayal of those who have suffered in war. 
Is that not a good enough answer from the League that says it speaks for the exservicemen of this country? Does it not show up the sham and hypocrisy of this Government's expression of gratitude? It goes on to say: 
This is the position of the Australian exserviceman in 1967. 
. within this system the Government has condoned the erosion of War Pension values until they have reached the lowest level on record. 
It goes on: 
The veteran, incapacitated beyond earning ability because of war, receives compensation less than the lowest paid worker in industry. 
The Government has ignored the plight of all war pensioners and abandoned war widows to the miserable amount of compensation they received prior to the last Budget.  lt is no wonder that the Minister did not read out to the Parliament the contents of that circular. This is what those engaged in the Vietnam war have come back to under this Government. 
Let us again look at the situation in which these men were involved in Vietnam and what the Government is thanking them for today. Everyone on that side of the Parliament and everyone throughout this nation knows that never has this country been more divided by a conflict than it has by the Vietnamese war. Demonstrations throughout the nation by people from all walks of life indicated that they realised the falsity of the Government's charge that Australia's security was involved in Vietnam. And today with great regret I say that it is tragic to think that so many young Australians are dead r.nd so many are wounded and suffering as a result of a conflict which was condemned, I believe by the vast majority of this country and certainly by people throughout the world. America is divided on this issue and it has been divided right throughout the conflict. If there is one country where people need courage to demonstrate in it is the United States of America. By the thousands people lined up in that country to protest against this conflict. 
We find now that right throughout Asia our reputation is damaged. We find that in that part of the world today, far from getting any thanks for being associated with the Americans in Vietnam, we are discredited as people who have gone onto foreign soil, ravaged the country and in every way contributed not so much to the security of that country but to the destruction of its way of life. It was one of the worst days in our history when we went into this conflict in Vietnam. It was costly, lt has been said that it cost us more than $40Om, apart from the lives lost and the suffering that has come to the people. Those who watch television and who read the newspapers must view with horror the torture that was inflicted on the people in that, country in efforts to gain information from them. We must also in turn think of the suffering that American servicemen who have been captured in that conflict are undergoing. lt has been a conflict that we should never have been engaged in and it should be a warning to people on both sides of this Parliament, but particularly on the Government side, that we should stay out of foreign wars and let the people concerned settle their own differences in their own way and in their own time. Today in Vietnam allied forces are walking out - if we can call if that - of a country which is more ravaged and more internally upset than it ever was before. The elections there are probably the most corrupt that it is possible to get at this time. As we know the governments there change as often as a man changes his shirt. The situation is that this conflict has called for a useless and fruitless sacrifice by countless thousands of people. Even . at this stage the Government refuses to acknowledge, 1 think, that its policies have failed. In the last days when our troops were about to come out they were engaged in a conflict in which several lost their lives and others were injured. 
Only at the point of the political gun, as it were, has this Government been prepared to acknowledge that it should pull out of that conflict, so determined was it to go alt the way with LB J, as it has said. Therefore today as we pay a tribute to the valour of those who served, as we pay a tribute to those who suffer today, to the relatives of those who did not come back, let us ponder from our own position in this Parliament what our guilt is in involving these men and their dependants in this conflict which was never a declared war, in which our security was never endangered and for which we are suffering today. 
I cannot help but think that at the very height of this conflict when our men were dying and suffering in Vietnam members of the Australian Country Party sat in the corner and sold their wool to troops which they said were fighting against Australian troops. The Country Party was prepared to trade with the enemy at a time when our men were dying there. That Party put its gold before the lives of those people. In this respect there are guilty men on that side of this House and they should not sleep too easily when these issues are being debated. 1 know that other honourable members wish to participate in this debate so I do not wish to speak at any greater length. But let me summarise by saying that it is regrettable to think that after 30,000 men have served there, many of whom were killed or injured, it has been left to the Australian Democratic Labor Party to bring forward a motion of gratitude which this Government could not amend or alter but which it blindly supports because it never even thought of it. Now when we are seeking not to have troops involved in Indo-China in future, in line with the Prime Minister's thinking, the Minister for Repatriation denies the Prime Minister. I cannot blame him, I suppose, because he is merely getting into line with the majority on that side of the Parliament. Above all else let us never again in this Parliament be a party in any shape or form to the commitment of Australian troops to a conflict such as Vietnam - a useless and cruel war which, as 1 said, has been responsible for suffering and conflict throughout the world, for demonstrations and for the dividing of nations. From one end of the world to the other it has been responsible for dragging Australia's name into the mud, not for the valour of the men who served there but because of our stupidity in going into that conflict. 
I pay tribute to those honourable members on this side of the Parliament, in high places in the Labor Party, who, at great personal risk and at times subject to insult and no doubt some suffering, stood up to the best that the Government could offer by way of criticisms and accusations of disloyalty. The people of Australia owe much to the Labor Party. Our policy has been vindicated. It has been a long, hard fight. We may have lost elections on this issue because of the false propaganda disseminated by those who sit opposite. But whatever happened we stood firm and true to the things that we believe in. We stood for Australia in this conflict. We did not believe in the useless sacrifice of life. Our conscience is clear but let the Government ponder on its sorry and deplorable record in this conflict. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Royal Australian Air Force has not had occasion to conduct a survey of this nature in the Richmond, New South Wales,area. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
F111 series aircraft are being employed in the active inventory of the United States Air Force both in the United States and in Europe. 
and (3) See answer to (1). 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Royal Air Force has chosen the Hawker Siddeley 1182 as a jet trainer replacement. 
No. 
Hawker Siddeley has submitted a proposal  to  the Department of Supply covering the collaborative design and. production of the aircraft based on the assumption that Australia will order a given number of aircraft in the near future 
The Macchi aircraft first entered service in the RAAF in 1967 and ls expected to continue tn service for some years yet. Current plans are that there may be a requirement to commence replacing these aircraft towards  the  end of the 1970s  but  this  may be extended.  The RAAF  has  endeavoured at this time to set down its  likely  requirement in order that full consideration  can be given to this matter by  all departments  concerned.  The  whole matter  is  still under  consideration,  . 
 Until approximately May of this year incapacitated ex-servicemen who had to travel to repatriation institutions or other centres for treatment and who were not able to use public transport were paid at the rate which the honourable gentleman has mentioned. This rate was equivalent to the rate paid to public servants who used their cars practically full time or full time in their occupations. A review of the situation was made and it was decided that it would be more equitable to pay these ex-servicemen at the rate which was received by members of the Public Service who only occasionally used their cars for departmental purposes, lt was felt that as eligible ex-servicemen used their cars only intermittently for departmental treatment purposes, the costs of insurance, registration and general depreciation should nol be fully covered, or that an attempt should not be made to cover them fully, as is the case with public servants who receive the higher rate to which the honourable gentleman refers. So it was decided, as a matter of judgement, that it would be fair and equitable to recompense ex-servicemen at the lower rate which is paid to public servants who use their cars only intermittently for departmental purposes. 
The  answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
549 as at the close of the September 1971 quarter. 
The remaining patients (22.40 per cent) were dependants of deceased ex -servicemen (74 from the First World War and 49 from Second World War). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rate of the allowance payable to repatriation pensioners who use their own transport to attend for medical treatment or other authorised purposes was revised in May 1971. The allowance previously authorised where public transport was available, and the pensioner's incapacity did not prevent its use, was an amount equal to the cost that would have been incurred by using public transport. In any other circumstances an allowance, based on mileage travelled, was paid at the following rates: 4 cylinder vehicle - 9.5c a mile 6 cylinder vehicle - 11.4c a mile 8 cylinder vehicle - 16.5c a mile 
Those rates were based on the rates approved under Public Service Regulation 90 for officers of the Public Service who used their own vehicles for authorised official purposes, and incorporated elements for standing expenses such as insurance, registration, depreciation, etc., as well as the cost of petrol, oil, etc. 
During the review of these rates which commenced in mid-1970 the Repatriation Commission considered that the rates payable under Public Service Reg. 90a for officers of the public service who used a private vehicle for specified purposes on irregular occasions, would be more appropriate for repatriation pensioners. Accordingly, the new rates authorised were: 
where public transport is available but the pensioner, of his own choice, prefers to use his private vehicle, he is paid at a rate of 6c a mile irrespective of the size of the motor; 
where public transport is not available, or the pensioner's incapacity will not allow for its use, payment is made at the following rates: 4 cylinder vehicle - 7c a mile 6 cylinder vehicle - 8.2c a mile 8 cylinder vehicle - 12.1c a mile. 
The current rates are designed to cover actual running costs, so that ex-servicemen would not be out of pocket, but they do not cover fixed costs of owning a motor vehicle, such as insurance, registration, depreciation, etc. 
Neither. See answer (1) above. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Surveillance flights over the Indian Ocean include flights made by RAAF aircraft from airfields in Western Australia. For obvious reasons the detailed information requested about these flights cannot be made available. 
Amy: Pre-schools at Puckapunyal and Seymour (Question No. 4849) 
If it does not embarrass the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I would like to compliment him on his reasoned approach to this problem. To a major extent he expressed concern for the employees of the factories and pointed out that many of them worked in his electorate. I assure him that the Government shares this con cern with the people who work in the electorate of the honourable member. I am sure that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  would fully support those comments. In fact, they have indicated their concern in the manner in which they have spoken. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports expressed pleasure that an assurance had been given that a viable aircraft industry is the objective of the Government and also that it is hastening slowly. I felt that he appreciated that this was what must be done in the aircraft industry today, from both the civil and the military aspects. I consider that this is the only way in which the Government can proceed in the development of the aircraft industry in Australia - with due caution and with what is hoped will be wise and considered judgment. 
I want to speak mainly of the Royal Australian Air Force and the support it has given the Australian aircraft industry and which it is giving it at the present time, representing as I do in this chamber the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman).  I am sure that the facts I put on record in the House will illustrate that the Government has maintained a continual policy of supporting the Australian aircraft industry over the past 30 years and that it intends to keep doing this in every way it possibly can. The RAAF has been the principal supporter of the aircraft industry in Australia for the past 30 years Both the Government and the RAAF have supported the industry because they have recognised that aircraft production and, indeed, all Australian industry must in times of emergency provide many of the weapons, ammunition, equipment and supplies needed to sustain the defence of this country. 
The benefits which flow from RAAF support of a rapidly growing and highly skilled industrial complex within this country are twofold. Without an efficient local industry there would be no capacity to develop sophisticated weapons and equipment or the highly skilled experts to assist in the making of this equipment. The decision to build the twicethespeedofsound Mirage jet fighter in this country instead of buying from the factory in 
France has not only kept the native industry in being, but also has helped to modernise it and to introduce new techniques which will spread beyond the aircraft industry into other engineering fields. Thus the placement of orders within Australia accelerates developments which might otherwise take many years to emerge, and it also encourages the growth of native skills. A few brief statistics will indicate further the support by the RAAF for the Australian aircraft industry. 
Aircraft purchases now total about 1,300, with about 1,000 being made locally. The decision to build the RAAF's new Macchi all-through jet trainer in Australia was another important boost to the Australian aviation industry. More recently, an Australian manufacturer was awarded a contract, against overseas competition, for 100 automatic direction finding systems for the Macchi trainer. Local manufacture of aircraft might mean some delay and possibly, as has been stressed by the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Supply, some increase in costs, but the Government and the RAAF believe that the many benefits to be derived from keeping a great Australian industry in being more than compensate for these disadvantages of delay and an increase in cost. In recent years considerable importance has been placed on the negotiation of reciprocal purchasing when aircraft are bought overseas. Reciprocal purchasing can take the form of partproduction, co-production or offset procurement, as was mentioned by the Minister for Supply, and it requires that Australian industry become involved to some degree in the production of the aircraft in question or at least in work of a similar technology. 
It would be interesting for the House and the people of Australia to know that in the last financial year the RAAF spent in Australia S224m out of a total budget of S300m. Much of this was spent within the Australian aircraft industry. Here in Australia major contractors and suppliers to the RAAF total almost 200, whilst suppliers on a small scale run into hundreds more. These contractors include the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Government Aircraft Factories, Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, Dunlop Rubber 
Australia Ltd and other large companies. To ensure that the maximum number of orders is placed locally, the procurement of products from overseas is constantly reviewed. If the RAAF is forced to order a product from overseas because of unavailability in Australia, the next time it is to be purchased reference is again made to the local industry. If the product has since been developed and manufactured locally, the local industry is given every consideration. 
I have already mentioned the price differential. A further matter that is taken into consideration is that any tariff protection that is given to Australian industry is added on to the price of the overseas product when the purchase is being considered. In addition to the things I have mentioned, the RAAF plays a very important part in assisting the Australian aircraft industry in the maintenance and engineering fields. In the time that I have available it is not possible for me to detail completely the areas in which the RAAF makes use of the Australian aircraft industry in the maintenance and engineering fields, but let me give one statistic that will illustrate the amount of support that it gives. On maintenance, service and engineering support the RAAF has spent SI lim in the aircraft industry this year. Also, all aircraft engines are allotted to the industry for major repair and overhaul. The few facts J have given will illustrate the vital part that the RAAF plays in safeguarding the Australian aircraft industry. Those facts are also indicative of the Government's firm policy of maintaining an aircraft industry in Australia. 
In conclusion let me reiterate a couple of major points that really underlie the whole difficult situation in maintaining a satisfactorily developing aircraft industry to which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and Government speakers have referred. Honourable members will have seen instances around the world of huge companies being in great financial difficulty. The Boeing, Lockheed, Douglas and Rolls Royce companies are 4 huge enterprises which have found it extremely difficult financially to undertake successfully an aircraft industry or part of an aircraft industry. The whole history of this industry around the world shouts caution to the Australian 
Government, as representatives of the Australian taxpayers, in trying to invest the taxpayers' money in the wisest and most judicious way possible. Let me reassure the House and the Australian people that the Government is concerned about the future of the employees of the aircraft industry and the production of the aircraft industry, and will continue to show its interest and concern in the most practical way possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals in the repatriation war compensation and service pension fields, as announced by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this House on 11th April. Many ex-servicemen suffering from very serious incapacity, or the more severe loss of limbs, as a result of their war service, will benefit from these proposals. All war widows who lost their husbands during, or as a result of their war service, and all service pensioners, will also benefit. These increased payments are further evidence of the Government's concern that those eligible for war related compensation, and those eligible for service pension, receive consideration consistent with the general economic situation and their needs. It will be appreciated that the proposed increases will benefit those who are very dependent on repatriation payments. 
I shall now proceed to explain the proposed changes in more detail, giving the new weekly amounts and an estimate of the numbers who will benefit. Honourable members will be aware that repatriation war compensation payments are free of income tax. The special or totally and permanently incapacitated rate will be increased by $2 a week to $44.50. This amount is payable to those who are totally incapacitated from war related disabilities or tuberculosis; those who are blinded; those suffering from the more serious double amputations; and those who are temporarily totally incapacitated. Approximately 21,800 will receive an increase of $2 a week because of the increase in the special or TPI rate, but the new weekly payment of $44.50 should not be looked at in isolation. Additional amounts or allowances designed for specific purposes are also payable, separate payments are made to wives and children, and many receiving the Special Rate or its equivalent are also eligible for service pensions payable under repatriation legislation. 
Single ex-servicemen in receipt of the special rate can now qualify also for up to $1 a week service pension under the changes being introduced at this time. Because the restrictions which applied to the 2 service pension increases in 1971 are being lifted, married ex-servicemen receiving both the special rate and service pension will receive an increase of up to $2.25 a week in their service pension in addition to the $2 a week increase in war compensation. These combined increases provided in this Bill represent an increased payment of up to $221 a year. 
The intermediate rate is payable to those whose incapacity from war-related disabilities or tuberculosis enables them to work only part-time or intermittently, and who are consequently unable to earn a living wage. It will be increased by $1 a week to $31.25. There are some 1,800 recipients of the intermediate rate or equivalent who will all receive this increased benefit and, additionally, those of them who are receiving service pensions will also be eligible for an increase in those pensions. Single exservicemen in receipt of both the intermediate rate and service pension will qualify for up to $2.25 a week more service pension, in addition to the $1 a week increase in war compensation. This represents an increased payment of up to $169 a year. Married intermediate rate ex-servicemen will receive up to $2.50 a week increase in their service pension which, together with their war compensation increase, represents an increase of up to $182 a year. 
I now come to the war widow. There are at present some 50,000 war widows whose basic war compensation will be increased by $1 a week to $18.25. More than 97 per cent of war widows also receive domestic allowance of $8 a week and, additionally, some 19,000 of them will also receive an increase of up to $2.25  a  week in their age or invalid pension. 
Thus, a war widow also receiving age or invalid pension will benefit from this Bill by up to $169 a year. Honourable members will, of course, realise that war widows with children of school age receive considerable repatriation assistance for the education of their children, right through to completion of tertiary studies. Free medical and related treatment is also provided for war widows and their children, as well as other fringe benefits, and so they should be. 
As I stated earlier, service pensions are payable under the repatriation legislation. The rate of these pensions is the same as the age and invalid pensions. There are now over 57,000 service pensioners who will all receive an increase, and an unknown number - that is, a number that is unable to be estimated - will become eligible for part service pension for the first time. Single service pensioners on the maximum rate will receive the $1 a week increase, but those receiving less than the maximum rate could receive as much as $2.75 a week. The same range of increases applies to a married service pensioner whose wife also receives a service pension, and a service pensioner whose wife receives an age, invalid or service pension in her own right will receive an increase ranging from 75 cents a week to $2.25 a week. For service pensioners therefore, the increase will vary between $39 and $134 a year. 
I now summarise the effect of these proposals. A single ex-serviceman in receipt of the special or TPI rate will receive an increase of $2 a week war compensation and could also qualify for up to $1 a week service pension. A married ex-serviceman in receipt of the special rate will also receive $2 a week increase in his war compensation and up to $2.25 a week increase in his service pension. A single intermediate rate ex-serviceman will receive an extra $1 a week war compensation and up to $2.25 extra by way of service pension, but if married, the extra service pension could amount to $2.50 a week; a war widow will receive an additional $1 a week in her basic payment and, together with domestic allowance and age or invalid pension, could receive a total of $36.37 a week as against $33.12 a week previously. A war widow with two children will now receive $40.25 a week from Repatriation plus education allowances and fringe benefits; and if she happens to qualify for age or invalid pension, a further $27.12 a week could be payable. All service pensioners will receive an increase and, depending on various factors, such increases will range from 75 cents to $2.75 a week. 
Honourable members will be interested in the fact that, since July 1970, that is, in less than 2 years, increases in the basic payment for special TPI - rate beneficiaries have amounted to $8.50 a week, or $442 a year; and that, additionally, very worthwhile increases have been made in supplementary benefits, such as attendant's allowance and service pension. In the same period, most war widows have had their repatriation payments increased by $3.75 a week, or $195 a year; while a war widow with 2 children has benefited by $8.10 a week, or $421.20 a year since July 1970. Additionally, of course, as I said earlier, education assistance, medical treatment and other fringe benefits are provided. The Bill appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which it gives effect. The foregoing amendments will come into force on the pay day following the day on which the amending Act receives royal assent. 
As my colleague the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said when introducing the Social Services Bill earlier, it is hoped that royal assent will be received by 27th April. This is also true of this Bill. This is earlier than was foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his speech of 11th April when he anticipated that the increases would be paid on the first pay day in May. If this Bill is given a speedy passage through both Houses we are hopeful that the increased payments will be made earlier than that date. The measures I have outlined reflect the Government's continuing interest in, and concern for, those who have suffered loss or severe incapacity because of the demands of war service or whose means are such that they qualify for service pension. Cost-wise they will add almost $1,500,000 to repatriation expenditure for this financial year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House is in accordance with the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the similar rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill is to increase, in relation to seamen, the various rates of pension as announced by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the House last week and being put into effect by the current Repatriation Bill. Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by $1 a week to $31.25. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part time basis, or intermittently. Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1 in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. 
The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $2.00 to $44.50 per week in the rate of TPI pension, or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The increases in pensions will, as usual, be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to be continued forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The following is a summary of deployments of Australia-based Royal Australian Air Force aircraft to Butterworth since January 1971: 
Neptune- 4 aircraft for 19 days- maritime exercise 2 aircraft for 4 days - navigation training exercise 
Orion- 
One aircraft for one day - navigation training exercise 
Canberra - 3 aircraft for 6 weeks 3 aircraft for 31/2 weeks  3 aircraft for 5 weeks target towing; and 
Hercules - 
Scheduled services involved with the movement of personnel and equipment for the 3 services operated over the period and varied between 4 to 9 flights every 2 weeks. Each Hercules normally remains for one day at Butterworth. Each month one aircraft provides transport assistance within Malaysia for 2 days for Air Headquarters Malaysia. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The nearest airfield on the Australian mainland capable of accepting Mirage aircraft is Learmonth and this is a distance of 1850 nautical miles from Butterworth, However, the airstrip at Cocos Island which is 1070 nautical miles from Butterworth is also capable of accepting Mirage aircraft. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1964. 
As at 31st January 1972-193,345. 
Government priorities in the Repatriation field have, in the main, directed available resources to the dependants of deceased exservicemen and to those who have suffered the most severe Incapacity because of the demands of war service, as well as to those whose means are such that they qualify for service pension. In accordance with these principles the Government, in 1968, introduced the special compensation allowance payable at varying rates to most exservicemen already receiving war pensions for severe actual incapacity assessed at 75 per cent to 100 per cent. The allowance has been increased twice since then, and the current maximum amount is  $6  a week. In deciding its war compensation priorities the Government has been mindful that, within the limits imposed by their disabilities, general rate war pensioners are able to work and thus share in normal community prosperity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service pension payments are not appropriated separately for ex-service personnel and dependants. Of the $48,740,000 allocated in Appropriation Act No. 1, 1971-72, it is estimated that some $42,000,000 would be payable as service pensions to members, the balance being payable, in respect of dependants. 
The following table indicates an estimate as al July 1971 of the numbers of ex-service personnel in the categories requested: 
Overseas Investment in Australia (Question No. 5281) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some Local Medical Officers who are in partnership do not receive a separate payment. Other Local Medical Officers submit accounts at irregular intervals (beyond twelve months) or do not claim payment. In the case of partnership practices the number of Local Medical Officers in each practice has been estimated and the payments made to the practice for the year ended 30th June 1971 have been converted to an estimated amount per Local Medical Officer. The following table incorporates this estimate in addition to the number of Local Medical Officers in single practices to whom payments were made for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I note that on 7th March 1972 my colleague the Minister for Health provided information concerning these two questions. I am unable to expand on that information. (Hansard, 7th March 1972, page 662.) 
(a) The numbers of medical practitioners enrolled in the Local Medical Officer Scheme are maintained on a State basis wilh Territories included as appropriate. Commonwealth figures at 30th June 1960, 1965 and 1971 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I note that on 10th May 1972 my colleague the Minister for Health provided information concerning general practitioners and specialists. I am unable to expand on that information. (Hansard, 10th May 1972, page 2382.) 
The Local Medical Officer Scheme is designed to provide a full scale general practitioner service for eligible patients, and is supplemented by specialist services as required. The number of doctors enrolled in the Scheme who have specialist qualifications is not separately maintained. At 30th June 1971 there were 6,206 doctors enrolled in the Scheme. This is about 84 per cent of the estimated number of general practitioners in private practice in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated cost to the Repatriation Department of administering payment to Repatriation Local Medical Officers in 1970-71 was $106,000. 
$109,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Repatriation Department's records are not structured in a way which would enable me  to  provide meaningful information along the lines requested. However, in addition to the statistical information provided in the Repatriation Commission's Annual Reports, various other statistics are compiled. If the honourable member could advise me of his particular interest in this regard I will try to provide him with relevant statistics or estimates. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
Related to the December 1971 quarter average male weekly earnings ($95.60) the percentages were 
46.55 per cent 
12.55 per cent 
The honourable member is no doubt aware that most ex-servicemen pensioned at the 100 per cent general rate also receive the 100 per cent rate of special compensation allowance. In such cases the total compensation represents 18.83 per cent of average male weekly earnings for the December quarter of 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no set amount. The allowance for each patient is assessed having regard to his needs, capacity to handle money and financial situation, after consultation with the hospital's Medical Superintendent. 
 This discussion of a matter of public importance obviously has been inspired by the announcement that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd will close its assembly plant at Mosman Park, Perth, Western Australia, over a transitional period. The House will appreciate that very little notice was given that this subject was to be raised and that, therefore, it has not been possible to obtain all the detailed information that one would have liked to have at one's disposal. Obviously this is a commercial decision by a large company which has Australia-wide activities and ramifications. It cannot be proposed, nor do I accept, that the decision is a result of Government policies - at least, not the policies of the Federal Government. There may be some concern by the company about the Western Australian Labor Government and its policies in the future. No-one can say this for sure, but certainly it is worth some thought. 
At the outset, I assure the House and the people of Australia that the Federal Government is most concerned that a commercial decision such as this could cause people to lose their jobs and, therefore, could cause them financial and other associated problems, even though such problems may be temporary only. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  stressed that companies such as General Motors-Holden's should have a social conscience in this matter. The announced intentions of the company reveal that in fact it has a social conscience. GMH has stated that it will provide special financial assistance for some of its employees. It has said that special financial arrangements, depending on age and length of service, will be provided for those employees whose services are to be terminated and that they will be advised individually of the basis. Also, personal contact will be made with each of these employees to determine in what other ways the company can assist in finding them alternative employment. The company has also informed the Western Australian Department of Labour and the Commonwealth Employment Service in Perth that it will provide both Departments and Western Australian employer organisations with full details of the qualifications, experience and job preferences of those employees who want assistance in obtaining alternative employment. I am sure that GMH will obtain all possible assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service. So, the reported statements of the company indicate that it is very conscious of its responsibilities to its employees who may lose their positions. 
The honourable member for Fremantle asked for an affirmation of the Government's stated full employment policy and its determination to achieve this objective. I do not think there is any need to restate this policy because it has been repeated time and again by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the relevant Ministers that the objective of this Government is to maintain full employment throughout Australia. Not all factors involved in this matter are within the control of the Federal Government, although a great many are. I think that, on the statistics available the Federal Government can claim that it has one of the best employment records in the world. 
Would he, as Minister for Repatriation, consider the subject now before the House to be irrelevant to bis Department? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated cost of $4m given on 6th May 1970 was based on an assumption that only about two-thirds of those who would become eligible would seek treatment through Repatriation facilities. In 1971 it was decided to assume that all those who would become eligible would avail themselves of this form of Government assistance and, consequently, the estimated cost at that time was given as $7.04m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as -follows: 
The age distribution of all pensioners is not known nor is there any distinction drawn between male and female pensioners in Repatriation pension statistics. To obtain the information sought by the honourable member would be a costly process involving an examination of some 600,000 records. For the information of the honourable member pages 59 to 66 of the Annual Report of the Repatriation Commission for 1970-71 contain comprehensive pension statistics which may be of assistance to him. 
The  answer  to  the  honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
and (2) 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
The estimated annual costs are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The artificial eye most generally in use and prescribed at present is the acrylic eye which has advantages over the glass eye in terms of finish, weight and lasting qualities. 
The Department lets contracts in most States for supply of acrylic artificial eyes. In New South Wales the contract is currently let to Taylor and Trefry, Artificial Eyemakers, Third Foor, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney. Prior to 1st July 1972, the New South Wales contract was let to Stel Aid Pty Ltd, 390 George Street, Sydney. 
However, in those cases where replacement glass eyes were required or in the very rare case of  a  glass eye being prescribed for a new patient,  Mr Sepping,  as the only active manufacturer of glass eyes in Australia, was, prior to his death, the Department's contractor for these items. 
No. The late  Mr Sepping's  services, whilst greatly appreciated, were provided on  a  normal commercial basis. 
No replacement is available for  Mr Sepping.  However it is envisaged that acrylic artificial eyes will satisfactorily fulfil the needs of Repatriation patients in future. 
I have read statements attributed to  Dr Hecker  which reportedly were made in Sydney yesterday when he was making a submission to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. As these comments by  Dr Hecker  cover such a wide range of issues I do not intend to comment on them individually. 1 just make the general comment that it is always to be expected that when public inquiries into such complex and longstanding legislation as the Repatriation Act are being conducted opinions will be expressed for and against. As members of the House and the people of Australia will know, 2 inquiries into the repatriation system are proceeding at the moment. Both inquiries are receiving evidence from individuals and organisations. Both inquiries will present their reports in due course. When these reports are received the Government will give them both due consideration. 
I would like to comment on the repatriation aspects of the speech of the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The honourable member mentioned to me tonight that he would be speaking about a repatriation matter, but I do not have any particulars of the case to which he referred. If he would like to supply me with particulars of the case I will be only too pleased to look at the matter, discuss it with him and ascertain both from information I can obtain from the Repatriation Department and from discussions with him whether there is anything that either the Department or I can do to be of assistance to him in this case. He mentioned the difference between the number of claims allowed by different tribunals. As the Minister, it is nothing new to me to hear that there has been a difference in the number of favourable decisions given by the various tribunals that exist in Australia. 1 can supply the honourable member with a great deal of information about the tribunals' official and legal status, but the basic fact of the matter is that these tribunals, both the War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and the War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunals, are bodies which are completely independent of the Department and which are charged with the sole responsibility of viewing the evidence and weighing al) the factors that are before them and then coming to a decision which is a correct one in their judgment. 
I take a short moment to speak about a case that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  raised on the adjournment last Thursday night. He referred to a repatriation case. He did not give the name of the person concerned. However I have ascertained the name of the person to whom he was referring. In referring to this person vis-a-vis his dealings with the Repatriation Department he used rather intemperate language which was really unjust to the Department and unnecessary in bringing this serviceman's case to the notice of the 
Parliament, the Repatriation Department and myself as the Minister. Since the honourable member for Sturt raised this case, I have caused investigations to be made into the matter. I have made my own inquiries and as a result of these inquiries I have informed the honourable member for Sturt by letter that I have arranged for the serviceman if he so wishes to be examined by a special medical board to assess his present incapacity. The  Deputy  Commissioner in South Australia will be in touch with this serviceman in the very near future, if he has not been already, to make this offer to him. If he accepts this offer the special medical board's report will be considered as soon as ' possible by the appropriate authorities. 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
(a) Less than 200: (b) 66,700. 
In respect of those not currently eligible - $3.73m per annum. 
I understand from the United States Veterans Administration that the situation is as follows: 
Under current legislation the Administration is authorised to furnish hospital care to veterans who served in the Armed Forces and were discharged under other than dishonourable conditions. Veterans having service-connected disabilities are accorded priority for admission. Veterans without service-connected disability and under 65 years of age who had honourable service during a war period or since 31st January 1955, are eligible for necessary admission provided a bed is available and they indicate their inability to defray the expenses of hospital care in a community hospital. The Administration is also authorised to provide hospital care for a nonservice-connected disability of any veteran who is 65 years of age or older, without regard to his ability to defray hospital expenses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Repatriation Act and associated legislation, a de facto wife cannot qualify for a service pension that would be payable under the means test if she were legally married to the exserviceman concerned. A de facto wife qualifies for war pension and other benefits on the same basis as a legal wife if her association with the ex-serviceman commenced before his discharge from service and if she was then wholly or partly dependent on him and recognised as his wife. 
Because of her ineligibility for service pension as a wife, a de facto wife of an exserviceman is, in many cases, at some disadvantage compared with a Social Service pensioner's de facto wife, as the latter is recognised on the same basis as a legal wife if her association with the man concerned is of 3 years' duration. But, as indicated in the first part of this answer, many de facto wives of ex-servicemen receive war pensions. 
The distinction between legal and de facto wives has existed since Repatriation legislation was first enacted over 50 years ago. Somewhat similar distinctions are made under analogous legislation overseas. They are related to social attitudes and other considerations to which I have given much thought recently. I am glad to be able to assure the honourable member that a thorough review of the status of de facto wives and widows for Repatriation purposes is in progress, and I hope that it will soon be possible to take steps to improve it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
This is a matter that affects the Repatriation Department. The position is that retraining and loans are available to all national servicemen, whether they served overseas or not. 
by leave - I seek the indulgence of the House to clarify and correct an answer I gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  this morning. After studying the proof of the Hansard report I realised that I misheard and misinterpreted the question and therefore part of my answer related to the repatriation benefits for treatment and pensions which are available to all Army people who served in Vietnam on special service. I have, discussed the matter since with the honourable member for Hawker and I learnt then precisely what he meant in his question by the word 'volunteers'. The honourable member for Hawker told me that he was referring to those who enlist for short term service in the Regular Army. The first part of the honourable gentleman's question was: 
Are volunteers-  that is short term Regular Army personnel -  who served in Vietnam denied the benefits of the retraining scheme for national servicemen who served in Vietnam? 
The correct answer is that the retraining benefits of the national service vocational training scheme are not available to Regular Army personnel. The national service scheme is available to all national servicemen whether or not they served overseas. It is designed to help compensate them for the disruption to their civilian occupation. As to the other part of the question relating to the war service land settlement scheme, this is a matter concerning the Minister for Primary Industry who outlined the situation in that area in his answer to a question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  at a later stage during question time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to repatriation proposals announced in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The repatriation content of the 1972-73 Budget demonstrates clearly this Government's acceptance of its responsibilities to the exservicemen and women of Australia, their widows and their dependants. Over 300,000 Australians will benefit under the proposals. The Bill provides for a number of improvements in repatriation benefits but does not include all the changes mentioned in this year's Budget. Amendments to regulations will be necessary to give effect to those other changes such as the increase of 50c a week in the domestic allowance payable to war widows, and the important provision of nursing home care for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, intermediate rate pensioners, war widows and World War I nurses. 
Many of the improvements must be considered in conjunction with those in the means test area which my colleague the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has already announced in the House. Increases in the rates of means test pensions, and the considerable easing of the means test, will add substantially to the level of benefits which some war pensioners will receive, including TPI pensioners and war widows also in receipt of means test pensions. 1 will now outline to the House the specific provisions of the Bill and will relate them to overall pension payments in some cases. It should be borne in mind that all pension payments under this Bill are free of income tax and therefore they have a greater purchasing power than equivalent amounts of earnings that are subject to tax. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the definition of 'child' in the principal Act in order to give effect to the extension of eligibility for war pensions to student children between the ages of 16 and 21 years. The amendment is consequential upon the amendment by the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 of the definition of 'child' in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the definition of 'child' in the principal Act in order to give effect to the extension of eligibility for war pensions to student children between the ages of 16 and 21 years. The amendment is consequential upon the amendment by the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 of the definition of child' in the Repatriation Act. 1 commend the Bill to the Houe. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The Bill before the House is in accordance with the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the similar rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The main purpose of the Bill is to increase, in relation to seamen, the various rates of war pensions as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech and being put into effect by the current Repatriation Bill. Under the Bill the existing basic general rate pension is increased from $12 to $14 a week and the existing basic widow's pension is increased ft om $18.25 to $20 a week. As I explained earlier, under the Repatriation Bill, the different levels of general rate and war widow pensions, according to rank held during war service, are being discontinued. The corresponding differential rates in the First Schedule to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act, according to th: rate of pay at time of war injury, are being discontinued under this Bill. The 'intermediate' rate of war pension is being increased b/ S2.75 a week to $34, and the ordinary weekly rate of allowance for an attendant for a specially handicapped seaman pensioner is increased from S9.50 to $K!.50, ;he special rate payable where both arms have been lost being increased from $16 to $17.50 a week. 
The Bill also increases the pension rates in respect of the children of deceased seamen coming under the Act. The weekly rate for each child rises to S7.35. Where the mother is dead also, the rate rises to $14.70 for each child. Under the Repatriation Bill, as previously explained, in the case of certain children receiving full time education, amendments are being made in respect of the continuation of their pensions until the age of 21 years is reached. Similar amendments are being made to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances . Act under this Bill. 
The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $3.50 to $48 a week in the rate of total and permanent incapacity pension, or for the various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in ' the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act. as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War - Pensions and Allowances Act. The increases in pensions will, as usual, be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
REPATRIATION BILL (No. 2) 1972 Second Reading 
Debate resumed (vide page 1 802). 
Reserve) Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) as they are related measures. Of course, separate questions may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 1 suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is  it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
 in reply - Like the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  my speaking time is restricted, in accordance with an agreement that has been arrived at. I should say for the benefit of those people who are listening to the broadcast that the Government is not deliberately restricting the debate on the repatriation legislation. It is part of an overall agreement that has been reached in the House between the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and the Whips because of the amount of business and the number of Bills that are on the notice paper both for today and for the future. For that reason I have agreed to be brief and !o the point. Therefore it will be impossible for me to cover all the points that have been raised by all the speakers who took part in this debate. 
Firstly, I thank all honourable members who passed some kind comments about myself but more importantly I thank those honourable members who have commented on the staff of the Repatriation Department in both an overall sense and a particular sense. I pay my tribute to the staff of the Department who have helped to produce the proposals before this House tonight. Any words of praise uttered are well and truly justified, because of their general overall attention to duty, dedication to the job, and administrative efficiency. 
A lot of the matters raised by honourable members in this debate are being considered by  Mr Justice  Toose, who is heading the independent inquiry into repatriation. They include some which were referred to by the honourable member for Hughes. No doubt they will be considered also by the Senate inquiry. I compliment the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on the words he used and the obvious sincerity with which he uttered them. He is a young man compared with myself and a few others in the Parliament and it was good to see a young man with his heart in the right place. He has interests of ex-servicemen at heart. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised matters which he has raised before in this Parliament, although this time he went into a little more detail. He mentioned the percentage of favourable decisions by various tribunals. Other honourable members also referred to decisions of repatriation tribunals. I repeat that these tribunals are completely independent of the Department and of the Minister for Repatriation. These tribunals have an unenviable task. Another point that ought to be remembered by people who are critical of the. determining authorities is that every member - I think I am right in saying this - of every determining authority throughout Australia is a returned serviceman. To say that the men who sit on these tribunals have no experience in or knowledge of service conditions is not accurate. 
One honourable member implied that claims for a pension entitlement for cancer as a war caused disability were hardly ever accepted. The statistics do not bear out that claim. In the last 12 years, arising from the 1914 war 1,050 claims were accepted and 5,000 were disallowed. I am speaking in round figures. For the 1939 war the acceptance rate for cancer claims was 37 per cent. There were 5,780 claims accepted and 9,500 rejected. For subsequent conflicts 115 claims were accepted and 127 were disallowed, the acceptance rate being 47 per cent. 
As I said, it is the job of the determining authorities throughout Australia to take account of all the evidence that is placed before them and then to use their judgment. What an unenviable task those people have. Honourable members have referred to the difficulty associated with having a case accepted. I wholeheartedly agree with this comment. I have had the opportunity to present cases myself both before I was the Minister for Repatriation and since my appointment. I have found it just as difficult as have other honourable members to have a claim accepted. Naturally by the time a claim reaches a member of Parliament it has usually been through, if not all, at least two of the three authorities concerned. 
Not always,  i  did not say always. I said that usually by the time a case reaches a member of Parliament it has been reviewed by at least one of the appeal boards. But like other honourable  members  all I can say is that I have found the members of these boards to be conscientious in their application to their duty of deciding the various claims. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said - 1 was surprised to hear him say it - this Bill contains what could be described as quite generous provisions. 1 thought that was a very fair comment by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
I will deal with some of the other matters mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I repeat that I have contracted to limit my speaking time to 10 minutes and therefore I must be brief in replying to the various points which have been raised. There is a great deal of emotional sympathy on the part of everybody towards the 1914-18 war veterans and the Boer War veterans who require hospital treatment. People have said that it would not cost much to provide hospital treatment for all of them. The estimated cost for a full year is S6.8m. But the cost is not the only factor to be considered. Repatriation treatment is basically available for conditions caused by war service. Many of the 1914-18 veterans are service pensioners and if they meet the requirements of the means test they are entitled to treatment in repatriation hospitals. There is a shortage of bed space in some hospitals and there are staff problems associated with the giving of hospital treatment and medical treatment to all 1914-18 ex-servicemen. 
But a great number of them who come within the service pension provisions and who are assessed to be in need are entitled to treatment. 
There has been a lot of comment by members of the Opposition regarding the TPI rate and its relationship to the minimum wage, particularly in the year 1949. They are relating the TPI rate to the basic wage. There is a big difference between the factor composition of the basic wage in 1949 and the factor composition of the minimum wage today. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that the percentages were approximately the same. But that does not tell the whole story because in 1949 all that a TPI soldier or a pensioner received was the TPI pension. Now he is eligible for a means test pension and for all sorts of concessions, and quite rightly so. The position is now entirely different from what it was in 1949. There is a close relationship now with the minimum wage. As to the true money value of the TPI pension - even taken at the bare figure of $48 a week - as it is tax free it is equivalent to $54 a week, approximately $2.50 above the minimum wage. TPI pensioners receive other concessions which members of the community who are earning the minimum wage do not receive; for instance, in the medical field, telephone rentals, sales tax and so on. Members of the Opposition, in particular the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  have made statements which really do not give the Returned Services League or other interested ex-service organisations a definite indication as to what the policy of the Australian Labor Party in relation to pensions would be if it were elected to power. Its promises are rather vague, some apply for one year and some apply over an indefinite period. I do not think a great deal of confidence can be placed in the statements made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He probably will not have the opportunity to put them to the test. 1 doubt that his promises will be tested. 1 refer now to the inquiries that were mentioned earlier. I was interested to hear the various comments of people who were critical of witnesses at some of the public inquiries. I am not going to speak at length on this matter; I wish only to make a couple of observations. I have found that people often spoil their credibility and the soundness of their case by using over dramatic and exaggerated words. Further, they do not give all the circumstances relating to the case. A great deal of publicity has been given to the granting of a pension to an 80-year-old gentleman for a certain complaint. That is not correct. The fact of the matter is that the complaint for which he is receiving a pension resulted from a war caused injury. It has caused him a great deal of pain and suffering. Of course I am not at liberty to disclose the man's name or the medical details of his case, and I do not intend to do so. I do think that people who try to bolster a case and thereby receive widespread publicity through the news media by making a smartalec remark about an 80-year-old man getting a pension because he is impotent ought to be ashamed of themselves. That was not the case. When these people are painting a critical picture with a wide brush they should remember that they are causing embarrassment and ridicule to many thousands of decent and gallant exservicemen without whose efforts in war these people would not enjoy the freedoms and rights of criticism in Australia that they do today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
Related to the June 1972 quarter average male weekly earnings ($97.10) the percentages are: 
49.23 per cent. 
14.2 per cent. 
Most ex-servicemen pensioned at the general (100 per cent) rate also receive the 100 per cent rate of special compensation allowance ($6 a week). In such cases, the total compensation represents 20.6 per cent of average male weekly earnings for the June quarter 1972. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill (No. 2). 1972 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate.  
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Twenty-eight pilots have gone to the United States of America to train on the Fill aircraft. 
Of these 28 pilots 24 are still serving. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
The letter which was sent out advising people of the loss of their pensioner medical service entitlement cards was addressed not to the wives but to the TPI pensioners themselves. As far as we know at this stage, the number of people affected is about 3,250. I am aware that the honourable member for Kingston asked the 
Prime Minister a question on this matter last week. I was present at the AustralianJapanese ministerial talks; that is why I was not in the House at question time. A letter was issued from the branches of the Repatriation Department to each TPI pensioner. Subsequently I have had compiled another letter which is more explanatory. It will be issued to every PT] pensioner affected. 
I will come to that in a moment. All members of this Parliament will receive or have received a copy of that letter. It would take too long at question time to read the full contents of the letter but a summary of the main points in it may be useful to honourable members. The reason for the loss of the entitlement card is the definition of a pensioner in section 4 of the National Health Act. Only some TPI pensioners have been affected. 
1 said 'only some.' The reason is that the war pension of the TPI pensioners affected together with the pension of their wives exceed the combined income limits of the pensioner medical service entitlement. Before they were just in; now they are just out. Whenever a means test is applied some people will be just in and some will be just out. I can appreciate the initial concern of the people who are losing their pensioner medical service entitlement cards, but I point out that when the benefits in the Budget for the people affected are taken into consideration they far outweigh the disadvantage they have suffered. In support of that contention I advise the honourable members that all the TPI pensioners affected will receive through the Budget an additional income of $11.50 a week. The cost to a TPI pensioner of enrolling his wife in a hospital and medical benefits fund is about SI a week. In summary, the married pensioner couples affected will receive an extra $598 tax free a year from this year's Budget, whereas the extra costs they face will be $52 a year in payments to a hospital and medical benefits fund. 
Certain other losses of entitlements are involved which will cause relatively minor expense. Nevertheless, the set gain of these people will far outweigh any extra expenses that they incur. I want to make it clear that TPI pensioners themselves will still retain their full entitlement to hospital and medical treatment through the repatriation system. They will still be entitled to the television, radio and telephone concessions and car sales tax exemptions. If both Houses adopt the nursing home proposals put forward by the Government as from 1st January 1973 TPI pensioners will be able to obtain treatment for chronic illnesses which are not recognised as being due to war service at a cost of $18 a week whereas previously the cost of such treatment has been as high as $50 a week. 
In view of the facts I have outlined there can be no argument against the fact that TPI pensioners are far better off under the extra provisions of this Budget which greatly outweigh the relatively minor increase in expense they have incurred through the loss of pensioner medical service entitlement cards. 
The matters raised by the honourable member involve not only myself but other Ministers. I undertake to study the details of the question, discuss them with the Ministers involved and let the honourable member have a considered reply. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
Consistent with the Government's policy of removing legislation which discriminates against the native peoples of Australia, the Bill now before the House is one of two designed to remove the few remaining limitations between the war compensation benefits for which Torres Strait Islanders and certain mainland Aboriginals are eligible and the war compensation benefits for which other Australian ex-servicemen are eligible. At the present time, Torres Strait Islanders and mainland Aboriginals who served in the Torres Strait Light Infantry Forces during World War II are eligible for benefits under the Native Members of the Forces 
Benefits Act. Although it provides wideranging benefits, this Act does not extend to its beneficiaries the advantages of appeal rights to either War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals or War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunals, or the payment of war pension in respect of non-war related pulmonary tuberculosis. The Government has over the years consistently lifted the levels of pensions and extended the benefits available to these former members of the Services. Originally, they were entitled to a limited range of pensions and allowances al lower rates than those payable to other ex-servicemen under repatriation legislation. 
However, in a conscious endeavour to improve the status of these ex-servicemen, this Government and preceding Governments have lifted pension benefits to the point where al present the same war pensions and allowances, payable at the same maximum rates, are available to Torres Strait Islands members and mainland Aboriginals under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act as are available to other former members of the forces under repatriation legislation. In addition, service pension eligibility was extended to them some few years ago. This Bill and an ensuing Bill which I shall be bringing before the House in a few moments are the last steps in the move towards full equality for these ex-servicemen. 
As I mentioned, this Bill is one of 2 measures. The other measure, the Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Bill 1972, which I shall also be introducing into the House, will bring them completely under the Repatriation Act, with no disadvantage whatsoever. In fact, they will enjoy some advantage in that problems which their geographic location might hold will be recognised and any advantage they currently have will be preserved. 

 Mr Speaker, before I conclude 1 should like to acknowledge that I have received representations on these matters from both sides of the House, including representations from the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  Other honourable members have made representations, but the honourable members for Leichhardt and Herbert have been most active in their interest in this matter. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr J.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a  second time. 
This Bill is a natural flow-on from the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Bill 1972. It preserves the rights of ex-servicemen, formerly members of the Torres Strait Light Infantry Forces, who will now be brought under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. Although the proposals will bring no direct financial improvement to pensions and other benefits payable to these ex-servicemen, because their pensions and allowances are already payable at rates equal to those under the Repatriation Act, it Will allow them access to the Repatriation Appeal Tribunals. Previously, their right of appeal under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act terminated at the Repatriation Commission. It will extend to them the benefits of subsection (3.) of section 37 of the Repatriation Act in respect of pulmonary tuberculosis, a benefit not available under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act. 
The Bill now before the House preserves the existing pension and treatment entitlements of these ex-servicemen and also protects claims which might at present be undetermined in respect of entitlements under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act. The Bill treats these claims in such a way as to enable the full benefit of the repatriation determination system to apply to them, right up to an appeal to a tribunal, without the claim having to be initiated afresh under the Repatriation Act. The Repatriation Act is amended to preserve, in respect of these ex-servicemen, recognition of the long-standing social customs and local practices such as that of island adoptions' which are recognised in the broader definition of 'dependant' in the regulations under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Bill. The Bill amends section 99 of the Repatriation Act to retain this broader definition in respect of these ex-servicemen. 
Special provision is made in respect of the Torres Strait Islands for extended time limits for appeals to determining authorities. The accepted times within which an appeal may be lodged in order to give a successful appellant the most advantageous result is 3 months. However, because of the geographic location of the Torres Strait Islands, their remoteness, and the limitations of sea transportation between the islands, this time limit has been extended to 6 months for persons resident in the Torres Strait Islands, so that no member will be disadvantaged in respect of the exercise of his rights of appeal. The Bill also contains a declaratory clause designed to remove any doubt as to the future application to Torres Strait Islands members of Commonwealth laws providing assistance to ex-servicemen. To date, section 4 of the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act 1957-1968 has limited the benefits, advantages, and assistance available to these ex-servicemen to those provided under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act itself and under the War Gratuity Act. Clause 5 of this Bill provides that the laws of the Commonwealth providing for benefits, advantages and assistance in respect of members of the defence forces who served during the war shall in the future apply, according to their tenor, in relation to Torres Strait Islands members. 
In relation to other Commonwealth legislation the major change arising from this provision concerns entitlement to war service homes benefits. The amendments proposed by this Bill, will enable applications by these ex-servicemen for assistance under the war service homes scheme to be considered under the existing provisions of the War Service Homes Act. Applicants must, of course, have the appropriate qualifying war service and must satisfy the requirements which apply to all applicants for assistance under the War Service Homes Act. Although this legislation applies to a relatively small number of persons,  Mr Speaker,  as approximately 760 Torres Strait Islanders and 40 mainland Aborigi nals served during World War II in the Torres Strait Light Infantry Forces, it is nevertheless important as another move in the Federal Government's avowed intention to remove the last remnants of racial discrimination from the statute books. It is important to the persons who will benefit therefrom and who will henceforth enjoy the same rights under the same legislation as all Australians who were members of the defence forces. 
I should like to assure the House that officers of the Repatriation Department will take steps to ensure that the measures will be given publicity in the areas where these former ex-servicemen live, so that all those eligible are aware of ellis important change. In commending the Bill to the House I should like once again, as I did at the end of the last Bill I introduced, to acknowledge the interest of and assistance from various members of the Parliament, in particular the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett). 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, I present the reports of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4, for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman- 
No. I am glad to say that the repatriation content of this year's Budget, which is under discussion at the moment, has brought expressions of satisfaction and approval from. a very wide range of people. The Repatriation Department and I have received many comments, both in writing and orally, praising and complimenting the Government on the repatriation provisions that have been included in this year's Budget. 1 have in front of me quite a few documents which support the comment that I have just made. Of course, I do not intend to read the contents of all of them, but I would like to quote from two or three to .support the statement I have made about the widespread general approval of the repatriation content of this year's Budget. 'Reveille', the journal of the New South Wales Returned Services League, states: 
The Budget announced in the Commonwealth Parliament last month contains much that is good for war and Service pensioners. 
Another extract from it states: 

 Sir Arthur Lee, our National  President,  has expressed the view the Budget has done more to  meet the submissions of the RSL than any previous Budget and wilh this I agree. 
That is a direct quote from 'Reveille', the official journal of the New South Wales RSL. It also talks about nursing home care, which will start from 1st January next year, stating, in part, that this provision will be a tremendous contribution to overcoming the heavy financial burden of providing care for the chronically ill. I thank the New South Wales RSL for the remarks and the statements that are in that document, which was received in my office on 27th September this year. 
I also have in front of me a number of letters from war widows associations at both State and Federal level. I will not quote any of the comments contained in them. I just want to say that it gives me a very happy feeling- - I know it does the same to members of the staff of the Repatriation Department - to read the comments contained in these letters. Also, it cannot help but give one a warm feeling to read the comments written by the Federal Executive of the Blinded Soldiers Association. Many other comments have been made to me orally by various organisations, including the organisation representing totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners, although there is a problem, as has been mentioned by several honourable members, concerning the wives of TPI pensioners. I undertake to discuss that in a few moments. 
I certainly appreciate the interest that has been shown in this matter, in particular by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  I can assure the Committee and people listening to the broadcast of this debate that no-one is more entitled to speak on behalf of the ex-servicemen and women of Australia than the honourable member for Mitchell. In my term as Minister for Repatriation no-one in this chamber has shown greater interest in this matter than has the honourable member for Mitchell. 
If the honourable member for Robertson does not like the truth, that is up to him; but what I said is the truth. Mention has been made of the fact that the wives of some TPI pensioners have lost their right to a pensioner medical service entitlement card. This naturally is causing concern to some of them, but many factors are involved. As I say, I will deal with them a little later. 
Very often during these debates members of the Opposition try to minimise the value of the TPI pension and the nonmonetary benefits that are associated with it but mainly the actual base TPI pension. They compare it as a percentage of the minimum wage with what it was as a percentage of the basic wage in 1949 when the Australian Labor Party was in government. But they fail to point out two or three things. The first is that in 1949 all the TPI pensioner received was the TPI pension plus a few fringe benefits; but nowadays he is eligible also for substantial service pension payments whereas he was not in 1949, he is eligible for television, radio and telephone concessions for which he was not eligible in 1949, he has a clothing allowance which he did not have in 1949 and he is to become eligible for treatment for chronic illness for $18 a week as from 1st January 1973 whereas up to now such treatment has been costing him up to $50 and $60 a week. That is one reason why it is not a true representation of the position to compare the base TPI pension rate in 1949 with the base TPI pension rate in 1972. 
But another reason why it is incorrect and totally misleading to do this is that the 2 wages - the basic wage and the minimum wage - are not comparable because they are arrived at on entirely different bases. The basic wage was just that - a basic wage. It was a basic payment to which was added various loadings and margins for skill and other factors. The minimum wage, when introduced in 1966, consisted of the then basic wage plus $3.75 a week. Until 1967, one year later, there were 2 wages - the basic wage and the minimum wage. This proves that they were not the same thing. Members of the Opposition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in particular, know this. Therefore it is incorrect and totally misleading to compare the percentage that any pension bore to the basic wage in 1949 with the percentage that such a pension bears to the minimum wage in 1972. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who is the official spokesman of the Opposition on repatriation, during debates on either the Budget or the Estimates, by a series of oft-repeated words and cliches tries to convey to the ex-servicemen of his country that he has their interests at heart; that he is constantly worrying about them and constantly fighting for them. I am of the opinion that his words have a somewhat hollow ring, and I support that comment by placing before the Committee and the Australian ex-servicemen statistics which illustrate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's interest in repatriation. In a recent debate the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  used a similar method to try to denigrate the Australian Country Party. He pointed out that the members of the Country Party had not asked many questions on a certain subject. He did so in an attempt to illustrate their alleged lack of interest in the subject. Let me use the same method to illustrate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's interest in repatriation. This is the man who will be Minister for Repatriation, if a Labor government has a Minister for Repatriation because it is rumoured that there will not be a separate Repatriation Department if the Labor Party becomes the government. It is rumoured that the Labor Party will combine 3 Ministries into one. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has no interest in one Ministry. I will show him how much interest he has in repatriation. In the last 3 years the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has asked 166 questions in the Parliament, but how many has he asked on repatriation? He has asked 2 questions on repatriation out of a total of 166 questions. As I say, the honourable member for Robertson used this same procedure yesterday to try to illustrate lack of interest by members of the Country Party in another matter. That is the situation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition speaks on repatriation only during the Budget debate and the Estimates debate. He has had an opportunity at question time to raise matters in the interests of the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen of Australia, but out of 166 questions which he has asked in this Parliament in the last 3 years only 2 of them have referred to repatriation. So it does not speak very highly or very strongly of the  Deputy  Leader of &gt;'h*. Opposition's interest in re patriation or illustrate that he has a very sincere and earnest interest in the exservicemen of this country. 
I turn to the question of the loss of the pensioner medical entitlement card by the wives of some TPI pensioners. I and my Department have spent many hours looking at every aspect. 
I assure the honourable member for Mitchell that there are many aspects to be considered in changing- section 4 of the National Health Act - not the Repatriation Act. It will involve many more people. 
So the Labor Party is prepared to do it. It is prepared to do anything. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has promised to spend $ 1,400m on education. That is another $ 1 . 400m which the Leader of the Opposition spent this morning. Many factors are involved in this. It is not just a matter of expenditure; it is a matter also of principle. In an answer I gave to a question in the House this week I explained many of the factors that were involved in this situation. Not only the wives of TPI pensioners would be concerned with any alteration to the means test level of $5.1.50 a week; other classes of pensioners, such as people receiving defence forces retirement benefits and people in receipt of superannuation, also -would be concerned. An altered level would affect many other areas also. If the Federal Government is to make any alteration' in ' the means test level, it must be conscious of the nationwide consequences and implications of such a move. Honourable members who have raised this matter can rest assured that I and my Department are well aware of the concern that this is causing some people although, as I said, all these people now receive an extra SI 1.50 a week- $598 a year - and it will cost them $1 a week to belong to a hospital and medical benefits fund. 
Other incidental expenses are involved and these vary from State to State. I instance transport concessions and. of course, pharmaceutical expenses which could cause concern to wives of some TPI pensioners who are not in the best of health. So, it is almost impossible to put an exact figure on the extra financial commitment that will be involved. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that their extra expenditure would be, on an average, about $2 a week. It may cost some people a little more but certainaly it will cost others a little less. So, looking at it from a purely financial point of view, all these people are receiving tax free an additional $598 a year and, on an average, their extra expenditure would be about $2 a week. They will all be much better off financially. 
Nevetheless. the Government is examining the situation. We are watching it very closely. I have been in close contact with the various TPI associations on this matter. They are well aware of my interest and of the Government's continuing interest in this matter. We will keep trying to find a satisfactory answer to the situation although, I repeat, these people are much better off financially than they were before this year's Budget. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the repatriation content of the Budget has received widespread acclaim from many sections of the community and many ex-service organisations. 
I have registered the points that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  raised. 1 will look into these matters, particularly the last case to which he referred. I would appreciate receiving the detailed information which he has in relation to both matters. As the honourable member will understand, the best that I can do is to give him an assurance that I will look into them. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, at 5.15 p.m. 
(a) Yes. 
Canberra 
Lady Hasluck and Miss Daw. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
Based on the current minimum wage of $51.10 a week applied to post Budget rates of pensions, and taking into consideration the appreciable rises in hospital costs since the plan was last costed, the estimated annual increase in costs would be - 
war pensions and allowances, $76,209m. 
continuation of war pension to all children over the age of 16 years undergoing fulltime education, $0.8m. 
Repatriation funeral benefit increased to $200, S 1.09m. 
Provision of free Repatriation hospital and medical benefits to all returned ex-servicemen of the 1914-18 War and of prior wars, $7. 08m. 
Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions  (Question No. 6487) 
 in reply - The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  asked why it was necessary to have a second Act to provide repatriation benefits to Torres Strait Islanders and conceded that there may be some technical or administrative reason. The simplest explanation I can give him at the moment briefly - if he wants any amplification of the answer I will give it to him in writing - is that the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Bill takes the Torres Strait Islanders out of that legislation, under which they have been for many years, and the Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Bill provides for the transfer of these ex-servicemen to the Repatriation Act. It also provides protection for their existing rights. In the future all Torres Strait Island members of the forces will look to the Repatriation Act. I appreciate the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in support of the Bill. I echo the sentiments he expressed when he said: T am sure that all Australians will appreciate the changes that are brought in by these 2 Bills'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The answers to' the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) less than 200; (b) approximately 66,700. 
A precise cost estimate is . not possible but on the best available information as to current costs and the numbers who would be eligible the estimated cost of providing Repatriation medical and hospital care would be approximately $7.08m annually plus additional capital expenditure in Repatriation institutions. 
and (4) The Government has rejected this, and similar proposals, as a matter of principle rather than cost. Repatriation legislation already provides full medical and hospital care for war-related disabilities suffered by Word War I veterans. When such veterans are pensioned at the 100 per cent rate, or at special higher rates, they are also entitled to treatment (other than prolonged in-patient treatment for chronic conditions)  in  respect of disabilities that are not war-related. Those veterans of the Boer War and World War I whose means are limited can qualify for service pensions that entitle them to treatment for nonwarrelated disabilities under the same conditions. To extend these facilities to all Boer War and World War I ex-servicemen would benefit only those veterans who are neither seriously incapacitated from war-related disabilities nor in financial need. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
(a) No. Only one ward of 29 beds is closed at the Repatriation General Hospital at Greenslopes. Because of peaks and troughs in the demands  on  hospital facilities it is essential to have some degree of flexibility. The vacant ward is equipped and available if required to meet sudden demand, (b) The Repatriation Department provides all treatment for disabilities accepted as related to war service, including extended inpatient care. Where the patient does not require the full facilities of a general hospital, this is usually provided in nursing homes at Repatriation expense. This of course reflects the special responsibility the Commonwealth has accepted in relation to such disabilities. For these who are eligible for treatment for disabilities which have not been accepted as related to war service, the Department provides hospital treatment except during the chronic stages of illnesses. Treatment is provided in a general hospital for the acute phase of a chronic illness, but when the acute phase has passed the Department is obliged to arrange the transfer of the patient to other accommodation at his own expense. The policy is that these provisions are to be interpreted with sympathy, having regard to all the underlying circumstances. The Department provides the services of social workers to assist patients and their relatives to obtain alternative accommodation as necessary. 
As announced in the 1972-73 Budget, T. &amp; P.I. and Intermediate Rate War Pensioners and their equivalents, War Widows and World War I nurses will, as from 1st January 1973, be eligible for nursing home care for chronic conditions not related to war service subject to a patient contribution of $18.00 a week; service pensioners who qualify for  VMS  benefits will be eligible for similar benefits under Department of Health arrangements. 
Repatriation hospital facilities are available in Brisbane at the following locations: 
Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes. 
Repatriation Hospital, Kenmore. 
Rosemount Repatriation Hospital, Windsor. Each of these hospitals provides treatment for chronic conditions appropriate to its sphere of activity and subject to the general eligibility pattern indicated above. No separate departmental facilities are provided in Brisbane for long term chronically ill patients other than the Anzac Annexe of Rosemount Repatriation Hospital. 
 The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
The extent to which the Repatriation Regulations provide for the treatment of incurable or chronically ill patients is described in paragraph 1 (b) of the answer to Question 6409. 
Cb) The Department conducts the following hospitals in the various States: New South Wales - Repatriation General Hospital, Concord; Lady Davidson Hospital, Turramurra; Repatriation Ward of Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital, Picton. Victoria - Repatriation General Hospital, Heidelberg; Macleod Repatriation Hospital, Mont Park; Anzac Hostel, 'Brighton. Queensland - Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes; Repatriation Hospital, Kenmore; 
Rosemount Repatriation Hospital, 'Windsor. 
South Australia - Repatriation General Hospital, Daw Park; Repatriation Hospital, Birralee. 
Western Australia - Repatriation General Hospital, Hollywood; Edward Millen Hospital, Victoria Park. 
Tasmania - Repatriation General Hospital, Hobart. No separate Departmental facilities are provided for long term chronically ill patients other than the Anzac Annexe at Rosemount Repatriation Hospital in Brisbane, the Anzac Hostel in Melbourne and the Repatriation Ward at the Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital, Picton, New South Wales. 
There are no Repatriation Hospitals in the Commonwealth Territories. Eligible patients residing at these areas are treated at the most convenient Repatriation hospitals or, under certain circumstances, in local hospitals or nursing homes. 
Medical Services: Commonwealth Rebates  (Question No. 6416)  Dr Cass  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In the recent variations made to the schedule of Commonwealth rebates for medical services, what was the basis for the assessment of the rebates for (a) item 990 relating to group psychotherapy involving up to 4 patients, (b) item 992 relating to group psychotherapy for 5 to 9 patients and (c) item 994 relating to group psychotherapy for 10 or more patients. 
Is it a fact that the common fee (a) for a patient undergoing group psychotherapy of an hour's duration has been $10 in recent years and (b) for group psychotherapy was 19 per patient in 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In addition to a means test free war pension, a war widow is entitled to free medical treatment including hospitalisation at Repatriation expense for herself and her eligible children. She is also entitled to a telephone rental concession and, if she qualifies for an age or invalid pension in addition to her war widow's pension and domestic allowance, she may, subject to her means, also be eligible for radio and television licence concessions and Pensioner Medical Service benefits as are other age and invalid pensioners. 
In considering the question of fringe benefits availability, it must be remembered that the War Widow's pension is free of all means test, whereas welfare pensions at comparable levels are subject to the means test. 
Before I start my comments on this Bill I would like to add my compliments to those of other honourable members to  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees and those honourable members who have made their maiden speeches, such as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  We all have to agree that the standard of maiden speeches that have been made has been very good and whilst I do not agree with all the comments of the honourable member for Melbourne, he did make an excellent speech at his first attempt in this House. I cannot say that I wish him a long stay but I am well aware of the nature of his constituency and, with God's help, he should be here for some time to come. 
Members of the Australian Country Party will not vote against the passage of this Bill. The Country Party appreciates that some of the improvements contained in the Bill will give needed assistance to many deserving people. We feel that the general community should be prepared to contribute to assist people who have lost their jobs through circumstances beyond their control. We agree that people who cannot obtain work through various sets of circumstances are entitled to be paid a reasonable sum to enable them to enjoy a reasonable standard of living. However, the trends in this Bill, together with statements made by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  are leading us towards the welfare state and do concern the Australian Country Party. We consider that some of the provisions in the Bill will create divisions and disturbance in our society. We are of the opinion that the increase of $1.50 a week promised by the Labor Government to be made at regular 6-monthly intervals will not reach the objective of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
The Country Party is further concerned with the implications of Labor's social security programme on the total economy in the long term. We are most concerned that parts of this Bill could discourage people from working, particularly those in the younger age group. Many people who have had long experience in the field of social services have expressed a degree of horror at recent instructions from the 
Minister relating to the conditions under which the unemployment benefit will be paid. Members of the Australian Country Party are concerned at the octopus-like growth of the Department of Social Security. I .am sure that some members of the Labor Party, particularly the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  have a great deal of concern also. In the comparatively short space of 3 months the Minister for Health has seen his Department decimated by the power hungry Minister for Social Security. And the Minister for Social Security has only just started. He has been in office for only 3 months and in that time the Department of the Minister for Health has been decimated. The expansion of the responsibilities, authority and expenditure of the Department of Social Security is one of the worst examples pf ruthless empire building. 1 understand that hundreds of public servants have had to transfer from the Department of Health to the Department of Social Security. 
The cost of these proposals is $126m in a full year and for the remainder of this financial year is more than $60m. Members of the Country Party believe that the diversion of some of this money to create job opportunities in country areas would have served a more useful purpose than increasing so greatly some of the payments to various people. Of course, I appreciate that it is not practical to divert money provided under this Bill to country areas at this stage. However, I press the Government to make more funds available for the purpose of creating more job opportunities in areas outside the capital cities. The policy of providing money for this purpose was introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Under that Government millions of dollars were made available to the States which administered the scheme in co-operation with the appropriate local government bodies. A tremendous amount of good work was done for many communities, particularly in country areas, with this money. In addition, jobs were created for many people. I am sure that many State and local government authorities will be appalled at the recent statements by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that the present Federal Government would demand a power of direction as to the use of any similar future provision of funds to counter unemployment. This implication dramatically illustrates the difference in philosophy between the Australian Country Party and the Labor Party in the preservation of the authority and responsibility of States and local government bodies. It is ridiculous to suggest that the Federal Government should specify the use of every few thousand dollars that local government spends from unemployment relief money. 
This Bill, and other statements by this free spending empire building Minister for Social Security, clearly illustrate the basic differences in national philosophy between the Country Party and the Labor Government. There are 2 major issues to which I refer in particular. One is economic responsibility and the other is the creation of the welfare state. The measures announced in the Labor Parry's policy speech show a complete lack of financial responsibility and indicate that in the long run the interests of the average hard working taxpayer will suffer from having to support the cost of the welfare state. We believe that continuing and further emphasis and funds should be directed towards encouraging people to work. The Country Party believes that some provisions in this Bill will encourage people to become mendicants of the taxpayer and the State. The actual results, of course, remain to be seen after the provisions of this legislation have been in operation for a period. Although it cannot be predicted with certainty it does appear that the increase in some unemployment benefits will lead to an undermining of the will of some people to work and to make a worthwhile contribution to the progress and economic development of Australia. 
Of course, all unemployed people do not fall into this category; nor can it be overlooked that there are different and difficult employment problems existing in differing regions of Australia. However, the financial payments available to single unemployed persons in particular, together with the recent instructions from the Minister for Social Security, appear to provide a dangerous incentive for them not to work. Under this Bill it is possible for a married couple with 3 children of 16, 17 and 18 years of age - all unemployed - to receive a total of $102 a week for not working. Instructions given by the Minister in his statement of 19th January this year - and these are new instructions - mean that it will be possible for practically anyone, if so inclined, to receive unemployment benefits. The Minister virtually says that if a person decides that a job he is offered is not within his trade or calling or is not to his liking, he will be eligible for unemployment benefits. He says further that if a person is refused a job because of his appearance this will be sufficient reason for that person to be eligible for unemployment benefits. The scope offered to certain people by these conditions is frightening. 
The Labor Government has said that it will relate the basic age pension to average weekly earnings. It has said that it will increase the pension by $1.50 a week every 6 months - the actual term the Minister used was 'spring and autumn' - until it reaches the target of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is my opinion, and this is shared by other members of the Country Party, that the stated $1.50 a week will not achieve the desired result. This opinion is based on the increase in average weekly earnings over the last 12 months of $14.80 per week. Twenty-five per cent of that figure is $3.93 per week. It can be seen that the amount of $1.50 paid twice a year will fall behind the $3.93 that the average wage has risen per week in the last 12 months. Further, for the quarter ending December 1972 average weekly earnings rose by $7.20 a week to $104 a week. Extending this figure on a yearly basis, and assuming that this rate of increase continues, the increase in a full year will be $28.80 per week. Twentyfive per cent of this increase of $28.80 per week is $7.20 a week. So the Government's proposal will fall $4.20 per week behind its target. 
In the event of this increase occurring, and if the Government adheres to its promise, it will not need $1.50 twice a year to raise pensions to the level of average weekly earnings; it will need more like $2.10 per week twice a year. This figure involves almost double the proposed commitment for the Treasury and for the taxpayer. Even now the commitment under this Bill is $126m in a full year. No dissection of the amount involved for the age pension and other associated pensions is available from the Minister's second reading speech. It would be fair to assume that the age, invalid and widows' pension payout would be by far the greater proportion of the $126m. If the payment has to go up from $1.50 per week to $2.10 per week to achieve the Government's target of 25 per cent the Government will have to provide millions of extra dollars to meet its promise. It is the opinion of many people that this Labor Government, and particularly the Minister for Social Security, will prove to be a taxpayers' nightmare. 
The Government's lack of economic awareness and responsibility is illustrated on page 17 of its policy speech where it states: 
The basic pension will no longer be tied to the financial and political consideration of annual Budgets. 
Everyone would agree that a pension should not be tied to a political consideration. Then followed the Government's 25 per cent promise. How can any responsible person think that the payout on social welfare, involving as it does about one-fifth of the total Budget, can be disregarded when the financial aspects of Australia's annual Budget are being considered. Yet the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was Leader of the Opposition, promised that the basic pension no longer would be tied to the financial consideration of annual Budgets. This is a very worrying situation for the future financial management of the nation. Many people have expressed great anxiety at the enormous cost of the Labor Government's proposals. I am amazed that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has, if only by his lack of public comment, obviously given his blessing to this irresponsible concept. The social service expenditure by Australia, particularly under this Government, is surely inseparable from a Budget and must remain a basic budgetary consideration. 
I am surprised that this Bill does not contain measures to help the people referred to on page 6 of Labor's policy speech. These are the people who 'depend on pensions for their sole income'. The leader of the Labor Party spoke of the 'needless anxiety, insecurity and indignity' that these people have suffered. This was before the general election. Now, when he has the chance to do something special for these people for whom he expressed such heart-rending concern, his Government gives to them no more than is given to people who have other sources of income. People who have property assets valued between $19,000 and $55,000 receive exactly the same sum of money as those people who are dependent on the pension. So the words of the Prime Minister set out in the policy speech, to which I have referred, have  a  very hollow ring. What has happened to the Prime Minister's proposal which was made on more than one occasion that every pensioner and every unemployed person should each be given $100 in cash? It is like many other Labor promises. These people did not see $1 of the $100 cash payment that the leader of the Labor Party promised them. 
The unemployment benefit provisions for single people mean that some young people will receive more than apprentices in certain trades. This must cause dissension amongst the younger people. A further division in our society will be encouraged to occur when an Australian who is willing and able to do a good days work sees consistently a family of 5, all unemployed, receiving over $100 a week for doing nothing. It is, of course, a well known . socialist tactic to create division and dissension in a nation. This helps to weaken and even destroy the economy. Apathetic people may well shrug this matter off but time will tell. I am sure that a sufficient number of Australians will wake up to the situation and at the first opportunity will throw this Government out of office. 
In summary, the Australian Country Party feels that there are some desirable and necessary changes in this Bill hut . there are also some very disturbing and perturbing possibilities some of which I have covered, which this Bill may bring about. I hope that the pensioners will actually be better off . under this Government's proposals but I warn the pensioners that financial expenditure on social services cannot be viewed in ' isolation from the general economy and the rest of the Budget. There is the ever present inflationary danger of unbalanced increases in Government expenditure. Unbalanced increases would cause damage to the pensioners more than to anybody else in the community. The previous Government was most conscious of its responsibility in this regard when it was implementing its financial policies. The Country Party will watch closely the effects of the measures in this Bill . and its members will continue to urge the Government to allocate more funds to create job opportunities and incentives to work particularly in areas outside capital cities. 
I wish to take this opportunity, if the House will permit me, to record officially in Hansard some words of appreciation to various groups for the assistance and co-operation which they extended to me during the 3 years when I was Minister for Repatriation in the last Government. This is the first opportunity I have had to do this. If I fail to record my appreciation for some body or some group, it will not be intentional. First of all I wish to record my appreciation to all officers of the Repatriation Department and particularly those people with whom I had the closest association. Summing it up very briefly, I should like to thank those officers for their willingness to work long hours. Their ability was outstanding. I wish also to express my thanks to the various organisations of exservicemen and women whose members put in a tremendous amount of honorary time and work to help fight the cause of their fellow ex-servicemen and women. The organisations and I did not always agree and the Government did not always meet their requests, but always there existed a spirit of courtesy between us at our various meetings. I was most appreciative of this. 
The Australian Country Party will support the passage of these Bills through the House. There is no doubt that the provisions contained in the Bills do offer deserving sections of the clients of the Repatriation Department further assistance. This assistance has no doubt been welcomed by those people who will receive the benefits. Although there are some shortcomings in the Repatriation Bill, some improvements have been proposed. No doubt the people in receipt of increased payments will be very delighted  -  I shall deal with that matter in detail later - but their feelings of pleasure could easily be dampened by the overall effect on costs, prices and general productivity caused by the Labor Government's welfare state policies. The extra $21m to be paid out by the taxpayers in a full year - this is in effect what this Bill means - cannot be looked at in isolation. It must be viewed in a total budgetary situation. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended I had expressed appreciation to certain people who had been of assistance to me during my 3 years as Minister for Repatriation. I had said that the Country Party will support the passage of this Bill and that the recipients of the extra benefits announced in this Bill will be very happy to receive those benefits. But I had also issued a warning to them that the extra $21m payout under the provisions of this Bill must not be viewed in isolation; it must be viewed in a total budgetary context. The funds to provide these increased benefits must come from the taxpayer. Only time will tell what effect the increased expenditure will have. Then some of the recipients of the extra benefits might not be so happy because of taxation measures necessary to provide these benefits. 
All the people who will receive these benefits are ex-servicemen or ex-servicewomen. Of course, they are concerned not only about the welfare policies of the Labor Government but also about its defence and security policies. These people fought side by side with others who paid the supreme sacrifice. They fought alongside soldiers from not only Australia but also from the United States of America, our great ally which senior Ministers in the Labor Government, in their short time in office, already have insulted in a very degrading manner. The ex-servicemen and exservicewomen of Australia should be concerned about that also. The other point I should like to make in this respect is that surely anxiety will be expressed by the Returned Services League and the other exservice organisations which are so concerned about repatriation matters, that there is not a compulsory security check or clearance on any member of the staff of the Labor Government Ministers. This seems to me to be a very dangerous gap in our security requirements. But the Bill does not relate to that matter directly; it is about extra repatriation benefits. However, security concerns the RSL and the ex-service organisations which will receive the extra benefits in certain forms. Their members fought for the security of Australia. A lot of people, not only from Australia, I repeat, but also from the United States of America, paid dearly for our security. Everyone in this House should realise that but for the United States we would not be here. 
One of the first matters mentioned in the Bill is the increase in the rate for funeral benefits. This is a welcome increase. The total amount provided is nowhere near the cost of a funeral. The benefit is increased from $50 to $100. This increase will not remove the burden on some RSL clubs which must find the finance to give their comrades a decent burial. The proposed increase will assist particularly in country areas where RSL clubs must meet high funeral charges. The increase will provide some assistance in meeting those costs. 
I note that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  who represents the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  in this House, in his evidence to the independent inquiry into repatriation conducted by  Mr Justice  Toose, said that he thought that the proposal by the RSL for a funeral benefit of $200 was reasonable. It will be interesting to see whether the Labor Government eventually increases this benefit from $100 to $200. The Country Party hopes to see further increases in the funeral benefit until it reaches a figure approximating the actual cost of a funeral. One way of tackling this problem may be to apply a stricter means test on the people who qualify for this benefit. 
As a former Minister for Repatriation viewing this Bill, I must confess to some feeling of envy of the present Minister for Repatriation who, as a member of a government which apparently places no limit on the amount of money which it is prepared to spend, has a much less onerous task. The previous Government's action in respect of repatriation matters gave the Labor Party a good base on which to build. In the last 3 years expenditure by the Repatriation Department increased from $3 17m to $4 18m. That is an increase of $101m in 3 years. That was not a bad effort by the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government. It gave the new Government a good start in this field. Even though,  Mr Speaker,  you cannot please everybody - all of us in this game know that - it was still a pretty good effort to increase the expenditure by that amount in 3 years. 
This Government is spending money as though money was going, out of fashion. On very few occasions we have read in the Press of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  making small noises about Government spending. But it has been obvious to any thinking person that the Treasurer and his advisers are being ignored with complete irresponsibility by the Government. The result and effect of this irresponsibility, I say to the Australian people, will not be apparent for some time. But I am sure that the Australian people will come to realise eventually that there is certainly a wide and undesirable gap between the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government and the present Labor Government in relation to adopting a responsible attitude towards overall financial policies. 
The policy speech delivered by the then Leader of the Opposition in the recent Federal election campaign stated that a Labor Government would be prepared to take the financial aspects of welfare out of budgetary considerations. 
Hear, hear! As I said, in my remarks on the Social Services Bill, how can any responsible person ignore approximately one-fifth of the total expenditure of the Australian Budget - that is nearly $2,000m - when compiling a Budget? How can 20 per cent of the total Budget be ignored? This money has to be found from revenue, from the Australian taxpayers. It is a completely irresponsible and even dishonest approach for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to claim that his Government will ignore the financial considerations of welfare provisions in the national Budget. 
The cost of the proposed repatriation benefits now before the House must be taken into consideration when formulating the 1973-74 Budget. Without any further alterations to repatriation benefits, salaries or associated expenses, the payout, after making these proposed benefit increases, for a full year will be $440m in round figures. The section of the Labor Party's policy speech in relation to repatriation is short and ambiguous. Ambiguity, of course, is the common denominator of much of the 47-page speech containing .at least 91 promises made by the then Leader of the Opposition. He made 91 promises including one in relation to repatriation which I will quote in a moment. Fewer than 10 of these 91 promises could be costed with some semblance of accuracy. As far as I am aware, since the election and particularly since the Parliament resumed, the Australian public or this Parliament have not been told of the total cost of the promises made in the 47 pages of the policy speech. Page 18 of the policy speech of the Prime Minister outlines the repatriation undertakings. It states that there will be a fixed relationship between the Commonealth minimum wage and the TPI pension and that the general rate pension will equal SO per cent of the minimium wage and other pension rates and allowances will be adjusted proportionately. This Bill deals with the TPI and the general rate to a certain extent but it omits at least SO pension rates and allowances payable under the Repatriation Act. They have not been adjusted proportionately, although that was the apparent undertaking in the policy speech. 
Time will not permit me to deal with all the ramifications of this policy but let me say to the House and to the Australian people that if this promise in the. policy speech of the Prime Minister is carried out, if the TPI pension is made to equal the Commonwealth minimum wage and if the Commonwealth minimum wage goes to $65, something which this Government will support, the extra payout for the TPI pension will be approximately $14m a year. That is to say, if the minimum wage rises from $51.10 to $65 the Government will be faced with an extra payout of $14m a year for TPI pensions. Further if the minimum wage is increased to $65 and the general rate, pension is increased to 50 per cent of that figure this will mean an extra $16 a week, in round figures. The general rate pension is now $16. For every $1 increase that is granted the total cost of general rate pensions will go up by about $4m. 
I did. I worked it out myself. 
That is why it is so correct and you do not like it. The extra cost to the nation of an increase of $16 in the. general rate pension will be $64m a year. If the minimum wage goes to $65, and without any other changes being made, in just 2 areas of repatriation the taxpayers will be faced with the payment of an extra $78m a year. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is interjecting about finance. It is easy to see what his Party thinks of his views on finance. When it revalued the Australian dollar it never even rang him up, let alone had a meeting with him. So he would be well advised not to say too much about finance. There are 50 allowances, in round figures, that have not been adjusted by this Bill and one of the most important of these is the war widow's domestic allowance. I am appalled to think that the Government could spend this extra $21m and give the war widows only a flat increase of $1.50 a week. It should have also increased the domestic allowance; this was the policy of the previous Government. 
The Australian Country Party certainly supports this Bill for it contains some changes that are most persuasive and perhaps should have been introduced before. That is fair enough comment. But the new Ministers will find that they cannot always get their own way in Cabinet. Some Ministers are not even called into Cabinet to discuss matters of concern to them. They will not always get their own way in Cabinet; I can assure them of that. Whilst the Country Party supports the overall provisions of the Bill there are some aspects of Labor's policy which need to be cleared up and one is that section of the Labor Party's policy speech dealing with repatriation. This is vague in the extreme and I ask the Minister for Defence, who represents the Minister for Repatriation, to arrange for a clear and detailed statement to be made on the future rates of pensions and other allowances that are referred to in this section of the policy speech. I would like a clear and detailed statement so that some informed analysis and discussion of the meaning of that part of the policy speech can take place. The Country Party will carefully watch the results of these proposals. I will continue to press for clarification of the repatriation section of the policy speech and will be most interested to watch the changes in the expenditure of the Repatriation Department as the Labor Party's policies are implemented. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Why did the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy,  make his midnight raid on the Canberra office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? 
It is interesting to note that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 was introduced by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  whereas the Act is administered by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It is somewhat curious that the Minister for Labour was successful in wresting the introduction of this Bill from the Minister for Social Security. However, I expect that it will be only a matter of time before the Minister for Social Security asserts his authority over the Minister for Labour and takes over from him in this area. Another noteworthy point about the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour is that he actually had something good to say for Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in relation to safety standards and insurance. It interested me to hear this in view of the continual and often vitriolic criticism by the Minister for Labour of this great Australian company over many years. 
It seems to me that it might be appropriate to issue a word of warning to BHP in case the Minister for Labour has in mind something very unpleasant for the company, such as nationalisation of the steel industry in the near future. Employees of the Commonwealth Public Service and its authorities have played a very important role in the development of the infrastructure of the continually expanding economy and development of Australia. 
The new compensation arrangements in this Bill will be widely welcomed by the large number of people who will be covered under the Act. My information is that the total number of people involved will be approximately 425,000. This figure covers members of the Commonwealth Public Service, employees of Commonwealth authorities, members of the armed forces and other people covered by such Acts as the Naval Defence Act and the Supply and Development Act. 
As Ministers and members of Parliament well know, many members of the Commonwealth Public Service and statutory authorities are called upon to work long hours under continual pressure. They need to possess many fundamental qualities to carry out their duties successfully. Some of the more significant requirements are a highly developed sense of dedication together with ability and sound judgment. They also seem to develop a strong sense of loyalty and exhibit a willingness to help honourable members with detailed information on a wide variety of subjects. Their ability to maintain essential confidentiality is another important feature. 
Every member of the House, particularly those in the Australian Country Party and others who represent rural areas, will agree that members of the various Public Service departments stationed in country electorates are most helpful and have made it easier for us to help country people with their problems. There would not be one of us in the Australian Country Party who has not received valuable assistance at various times from such people as the District Telephone Manager and his staff, the District Postal Manager and his staff, the Registrar of Social Services, the Regional Directors of Labour and the Commonwealth electoral officers and the members of their staffs. We in the Country Party hope to see more branches of Public Service departments established in rural areas. We will fight to ensure that the vital facilities of housing and education are provided for public servants stationed in country areas and that high priority is given to the provision of finance in country areas to meet housing and education needs. 
I mentioned a few minutes ago the various fundamental qualities that a successful public servant needs. I must say that as far as Canberra employees of the Public Service are concerned I have no doubt that the basic qualities I outlined are being stretched to the limit by the rash of legislation brought about by the Labor Government and also by the ready willingness of senior Ministers of the Labor Government ruthlessly to attempt to shift the blame for a crisis - a crisis either for the Government or for the Minister - on to members of the Public Service. There have been recent major national examples of this. One involved  Sir Arthur  Tange of the Defence Department and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  when the Minister was involved in a serious staff problem over a briefing with Lord Carrington, the British Defence Minister. The Minister passed the blame from himself and involved a very senior public servant in  Sir Arthur  Tange. Of course, we recently have had our attention drawn to a serious matter which concerned the raid by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra and Melbourne. 
It would be surprising if the policy of Ministers of passing the buck to public servants when they are in trouble does not greatly increase the number of public servants who will qualify for compensation under a proposed new section 5 (c) of the Act. The proposed new section states that the definition of 'disease':   . . includes any physical or mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition, whether of sudden or gradual development, and also includes the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of any preexisting physical or mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition; 
When we consider the number of conditions which could apply to the definition I have just read out it is not hard to visualise the significant decline that will take place in the health of public servants if they are subjected to the unprincipled actions of senior Ministers who arc trying to get out from under by blaming public servants. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when referring to members of the Public Service in the last few days - and remember that the members of the Public Service whom this Bill concerns have no right on reply - used such despicable words as 'conspiracy', 'withholding of information', 'malevolence', 'inaccuracy', 'incompetence', 'misunderstanding' and 'misinterpretation'. These words are in Hansard for everyone to see. It is pointless for the Prime Minister to deny that he used those words. They are all recorded in Hansard and in the headlines of the national 
Press. I have just one example of this. It is a headline from the 'Daily Telegraph' of  4  days ago, which states: 'PM Blames Public Servant For Raid'. This completely supports my comments. 
The overall provisions of this Bill constitute a tremendous improvement in the compensation position of Commonwealth employees who, broadly speaking, in the course of their duties are inflicted with death, illness or injury whether or not actually caused by their occupation. Some of the most important proposals that will change the previous situation rather dramatically are, firstly, that an employee's compensation on a pro rata basis will not be limited to 26 weeks but will be available for the rest of his life and, secondly, that a widow no longer will receive a lump sum but will be paid according to her family situation and according to her late husband's pay, with regular incremental increases being taken into consideration. All reasonable people will support the principle that a fair compensation payment should be made in all possible circumstances, and the Australian Country Party unhesitatingly supports this proposition. 
No-one would begrudge the most generous possible payment to a widow, particularly if she has children. However, it is extremely difficult for members of the Parliament and the nation to assess the practicality and reasonableness of the proposals contained in this Bill. The reason I say that is that the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  which is the explanatory speech introducing the Bill, is another of the increasing list of measures which are being brought into the House by the Labor Government and which do not contain cost estimates. It illustrates the worrying irresponsibility of this Government in regard to expenditure. Someone must pay. Many taxpayers, including the members of the Commonwealth authorities covered by this Bill, are expressing concern about who will pay and about when information on the cost of these and other proposals is to be made public. As with other measures, this Bill cannot be viewed in isolation; it cannot be divorced from overall budgetary considerations in spite of the Prime Minister's extraordinary statement in his policy speech that social welfare and social security as a whole no longer would be subject to financial or budgetary considerations. 
This Bill will have another side effect which is sure to cause a big headache to members of private business and industry, small and large. There is no doubt that there will be a follow on in other sections of industry. In an article in the 'Financial Review' of 5th March, before this Bill was announced, the writer said: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory and the Northern Territory,  Mr Kep  Enderby, is working on the preparation of ordinances to extend the benefits of the Act to employees privately employed in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. 
This illustrates the point that I made that there will be a follow on in other sections of industry. Thousands of primary producers and small business people could have an unbearable burden placed upn them by workers compensation insurance rates, which are very high even under the present arrangement. Apart from the increasing worry for business people of financing the load there is the inevitable increase in costs to the public. Another alternative to be considered is the possible collapse of the small business structure of Australia. Any substantial weakening of the structure of private enterprise would, of course, materially assist the Labor Government towards its announced and dedicated objective of a socialist state in Australia. 
Members of the Government Party are interjecting in critical fashion, but surely it is reasonable to put forward some of the points that ought to be taken into consideration. It is reasonable to put both sides of an argument. The Country Party will not oppose the passage of this Bill through the House of Representatives because it recognises that many of its provisions are just and justified, particularly those relating to widows. However, the Country Party wants to convey a warning to the people of Australia, particularly those who will benefit from this measure. The warning is that in the long run all of us as taxpayers have to pay and have to face the day of reckoning which must inevitably come as the Labor Party continues to introduce uncosted legislation involving huge and compounding increases in government expenditure. 
It is understandable that the beneficiaries of these schemes are experiencing a sense of pleasure and satisfaction in the initial stages of the range of extra benefits. However, we of the Country Party believe that the lon term effect of the new measures involving Government spending, added to by shorter working hours, could have serious inflationary consequences for the overall standard of living in Australia and the general efficiency and cost structure of our domestic industries across the nation. The ability of industry to compete with imports from other countries and on the export markets must be affected. Whilst we appreciate that improvements in the compensation scheme had to be considered, we feel that it is appropriate for a member of the House to put the other side of the question so that the people may weigh whether the improvements have any significance. They will be able to judge in the future what happens to our cost structure, and that only time will tell. 
This Bill, as other honourable members who have spoken have mentioned, provides $6.5m as an emergency grant to the States for the provision of housing for low income or needy families. There is no doubt that the general principle of the Bill has the support of the House and, in particular, of the Australian Country Party, to which I belong. However, there is a certain number of factors which do cause concern to the Country Party - and I will be dealing with these later on - with respect to the allocation of finance or the lack of definition of the allocation of finance in this Bill. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  talked about housing being in such a poor state in Australia and said that this was due to the neglect and apathy of governments. Certainly this charge could not be sheeted home to the previous Federal governments of this country because under previous LiberalCountry Party administrations Australia has achieved one of the highest home ownership percentages in the world. Over 70 per cent of Australians either own their own homes or are on the way to owning them. This is on sheer statistics one of the highest rates in the world. 
The money provided under this Bill is designed to provide more rental accommodation for low income families and, as I have said, this is a principle with which there would be general agreement on all sides of the House. The honourable member for Mitchell mentioned New South Wales quite frequently, implying criticism of the New South Wales Government and the New South Wales Housing Commission. While some of the statistics he gave may be correct, as I understand the position it was the Premier of New South Wales who initiated the request for a special allocation of finance after the Labor Government was elected in December. Therefore, some of the credit must go to the Premier of New South Wales for his initiative in requesting extra finance for housing. Mention was made of lack of construction. If there is a drop in the construction of housing, one of the major reasons applicable to all States is the rising cost of construction. Even though there is more money being made available all the time it is being found more difficult to keep up with the demand for rental housing in Australia. 
I pay a special tribute to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  for his contribution to the debate on this Bill. I do not intend to reiterate all that he said but he pointed out to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is at the table, and the Labor Government that the housing industry is a key factor in the economy, that many industries throughout Australia are dependent on it and that any Bill providing more money for housing, such as this Bill, should not be viewed in isolation but as part of a total problem. It is a total problem in terms of the whole economy of this country and I will mention the various factors a little later. However, it might be time, as the honourable member for Wentworth as a former Treasurer said, to issue a warning to the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of the dangers of too much finance being devoted to the housing field. This Bill provides a special grant for the provision of rental housing to low income or needy families. I must admit that there are two or three features of the Bill that seem to militate against its objective and one of these features is the timing of this legislation. The Minister for Housing in his second reading speech concluded by saying: 
I also ask the House to co-operate in facilitating the early passage of the Bill so that the advances it authorises could be paid to the States to enable them to press ahead as quickly as possible. 
He said those words on 14 March, nearly 2 months ago. This shows how the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the Labor Government are co-operating with Ministers and how they are taking an interest in the needs of the people and in the housing needs of the States. The Minister wanted to be sure that this Bill when it was introduced into the House nearly 2 months ago received a speedy passage. Clause 6 of the Bill provides that the money must be committed before 1 July 1973. Today is 1 May which leaves 8 weeks for the $6. 5m to be committed by the various State governments. The loan involves $1.5m for my own State of Victoria, $3.5m for New South Wales, and the balance is to go to the other States. There are only 8 weeks left and certainly this must give cause for concern to the State governments which are trying to organise their building programs. You cannot pick up out of the blue builders, contractors and so on within a few weeks and commit the loan money provided by this Bill which, of course, has yet to go through the Senate. Goodness knows when that might be. 
All honourable members who have an  Interest  in housing know that this legislation has been on the notice paper for some weeks, but for various reasons unknown to be and to other honourable members on the Opposition side of the House there has been a seeming reluctance to bing on this legislation. The Labor Government has promised an amount of $6.5m but perhaps it does not want to see the money spent. However, as I said, no one could disagree with the principle of the loan. Let us hope that the money will be used as soon as possible by the State governments. I repeat that there are only about 7 weeks left for the State governments to commit this money. 
In the previous Administration there was no one on the Opposition side who caused more delay in this House or who was less co-operative with the then Leader of the House than the honourable member for Hughes, who is now the Minister for Housing. Perhaps the reason why the Minister's Bills are taking such a long time to get through is that the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is repaying the honourable member for his previous obstructive methods. I turn now to a matter which is of particular Interest to the Australian Country Party. I refer to the construction of houses in country areas. Naturally previous speakers in this debate have, broadly speaking, confined their remarks to housing problems that exist in and around the great capital cities of Australia. We in the Country Party want to see progress in the development and modernisation of better housing in the great capita] cities of Australia, but we have a responsibility and a duty to ensure that the needs of the rural areas of this country are not overlooked. It is most heartening to know that the Victorian State Government announced on 6th February that it would accept the $1.5m emergency grant. That was about 3 months ago. On that day the Premier of Victoria wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  accepting the offer. Today - 3 months later - Victoria has not received one cent of that money. The Bill is still in this House. 
The Premier of Victoria said that it was proposed to spend the money on building 50 houses in the country areas of Victoria. Whilst this is only a fraction of what is needed in rural areas generally in order to decentralise our population and industry, at least it is a move in the right direction. It is disturbing to hear other announcements made by other Ministers, one of whom has just walked into the House. I refer to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who is spending money as though he had suddenly inherited the Rockefeller fortune. The Minister is proposing to spend $500m at Bathurst and $200m at Sale. He is thinking about spending another $500m in the Melbourne western suburbs area represented by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The Minister proposes to spend a couple of hundred million dollars on Albury-Wodonga. There is to be a new town and airport at Townsville. We are really seeing the original Rockefeller. It may be thought that the Minister suddenly inherited the golden touch. 
The Defence Service Homes Bill has in many ways a very historical significance. While some of the matters of significance in the Bill are commendable, some are to be condemned in my opinion. One of trie significant factors to which I refer is the change in the title of the Bill. It has stood unchanged in word and meaning since 1918. The change in the wording of the title is that it is now called the Defence Service Homes Bill and not the War Service Homes Bill. This change breaks a long established sentiment and principle of substance in the War Service Homes Bill. The provisions of the Bill illustrate why it was necessary to change the title of the Bill. I will deal with this matter progressively in  my  speech. As I said, the provisions of the Bill change the meaning and significance of conditions of eligibility. I am surprised and disappointed that the ex-service organisations have not registered stronger public objections to certain provisions regarding eligibility. Previous conditions were broadly- 
They may not be losing anything in money terms but it is the principle with which I am dealing. I will deal with the matter in more detail later. The conditions contained in the previous Bill were broadly that a person was eligible for a wax service homes loan if he had served overseas or had made himself available for such service. I was surprised when the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  said in his second reading speech: 
Since the inception of the scheme in 1914 eligibility in respect of service in the forces has been based on a period of service abroad involving operational risks. 
That statement is not literally correct. Previous eligibility provisions under the scheme provided that loans should be made available to those persons who have served overseas or who have made themselves available so to do. In other words they enlisted in either the Australian Imperial Force, the Royal Australian Navy or the Royal Australian Air Force. 
I turn now to the point of principle to which I referred earlier. This Bill, in my opinion, shows a contemptuous disregard for the fundamental principle of the much valued war service homes loan available to persons who enlisted for services overseas. The Bill shows a contemptuous disregard for this principle by including a small group of national servicemen who are granted eligibility just because they happened to be in the Army on 7 December and are willing to finish their 18 months national service. I repeat that this privilege which has been granted to this small group deserves the contempt of this Parliament and the exservicemen in particular. Firstly, it is most unfair and discriminatory against 30,000 to 35,000 national servicemen who completed their full 2 years training. Much more serious is the fact that, making these few national servicemen eligible makes a mockery of the basic principles and objectives of this 55- year-old scheme. It is political bribery of the highest degree and it is an unprincipled move just to try to prevent the Army from suffering a damaging and significant drop in its number. 
I wonder how some of the ex-servicemen on the Government side of the chamber who served overseas or enlisted to do so feel when they realise that they have been party to a decision that gives a few national servicemen who have had 18 months service in the comfort and safety of Army camps in Australia in peace time exactly the same lifetime housing loan as their fellow Australians who served overseas in the Second World War, in the Battle of Britain, over Germany, in Tobruk and in the Middle East. This Bill will place a few national servicemen who have served 18 months in national service training after 7th December last year in the same position to obtain a housing loan as those exservicemen who were prisoners of war under the Japanese and the Germans. These national servicemen will have the same rights as those Australians who served in the rotten conditions in New Guinea. My opinion is that this Labor Government should be ashamed of itself for including this very small percentage of national servicemen in the provisions of this Bill. It is a complete rebuttal and abdication of the principles, objectives and purposes of the war service homes legislation which makes available loans of $12,000 at the very attractive interest rate of  31  per cent. I register my strongest personal objection to the extension to these national servicemen of eligibility for a housing loan. It is an insult to the men who served or who made themselves available to serve overseas. 
This is another of the many Bills that the Labor Government has proposed to the House with no indication as to the cost. The Government apparently has no idea of what the cost will be and what is more it could not care less. As with many other new proposed expenditures this Government could not care less what the cost will be. The nearest I could get to the overall cost of this proposal was by obtaining and multiplying by $12,000 the number of permanent members of the forces who will be eligible to receive a loan. According to my information that number is 38,000. If one multiplies 38,000, by the loan figure of $12,000 it comes, according to my reckoning, to an amount of $456m. This is a commitment which this Government is undertaking but there is no mention in the Bill as to what the cost of this proposal will be. I have taken into account only those servicemen who would at present be eligible to receive this benefit. This is irresponsibility to the highest degree in the financial and economic management of Australia. 
In looking at another of the main provisions in this Bill, I am sure that most people would support the proposed loan increase from $9,000 to $12,000. The. cost of building is rising rapidly. This Government has been making all sorts of promises involving hundreds of millions of dollars which will be injected into areas that will require the tradesmen who are inseparably involved with building construction. The provision of this money could cause an even more rapid rise in building costs because an increase in the amount of available finance could cause increased competition for skilled tradesmen. 1 refer to the skilled groups of people, such as carpenters, bricklayers, plumbers, builder's labourers, tilers and so on. 
My information is that already there is a noticeable shortage of these people because of the finance that is available for housing at the present time. I therefore express some reservations about the. amount of money being made available for housing because it could exacerbate the shortage of skilled labour and cause higher prices thus dissipating to a large extent the proposed $3,000 increase in the home loans envisaged by this Bill. One of the reasons why the Commonwealth should be prepared to take a second mortgage is that other lenders may be reluctant to add on a second mortgage loan because of the imbalance caused by the vast amount of Government money being injected into the building industry. 
I welcome the fact that as a result of this Bill loans will be available, to certain unmarried females who qualify under the Act as a result of their war service. 1 have had personal knowledge of the need for this provision. When I was Minister for Repatriation 1 received many requests from single females to move for an appropriate amendment to the Act. I am sorry that I was not able to do that. However, 1 am certainly glad to see that eligibility will be extended to these people. 1 will do all I can do to assist unmarried females who are qualified to benefit from this provision. Nevertheless I consider that the Government having adopted this principle could have gone a step further and included single male members of the forces in this provision. 
I also support the extension of eligibility to members of various volunteer organisations such as the Salvation Army and the Young Men's Christian Association who often shared in the dangers of combat and who always were an inspiration and help to many exservicemen in a great many ways as many honourable members know. I regret that the Minister's second reading speech does not list the organisations whose members will be eligible for a loan. I have not been able to find a list of the organisations in the Act. Perhaps I have overlooked it. Therefore I cannot comment as to whether there is adequate coverage of these organisations. The war service homes scheme has been of tremendous assistance to and greatly appreciated by about 330,000 exservicemen who have received loans. The interest rate of 3) per cent is generous and it certainly has contributed, together with the length of the term of the loan, to the obtaining of homes by ex-servicemen who otherwise could not possibly have managed to build and maintain a home. 
I now refer to the 3-year period of service which enables a Regular serviceman to qualify for a loan. L support the proposal set out in the amendment which suggests that the period should be extended to 6 years. The basic reason for doing this is that in the Minister's second reading speech use is made of the expression 'a substantial period of service', with emphasis on the word 'substantial'. The word is used several times in the Minister's second reading speech and it has been given great significance by him. While there is room for different opinions on the definition of 'substantial' I consider it to be reasonable to class a minimum time of 3 years' service as unsubstantial because it is the minimum period for which a man can sign on. So I do not consider it to be reasonable to class a 3- year period as a substantial period of service when it is the minimum signing on period. There is another reason why I question the wisdom of setting a period of 3 years. We have to take the training period and other periods into consideration. In doing so I suggest that a 3-year period of service means that Australia will receive a useful period of service of only about 2 years. Therefore it is most questionable whether the availability of a loan to a man who has served for only 3 years in the Regular Army or in the other Services is fair and equitable as far as the Australian people are concerned and also as far as the majority of those members of the armed forces who served generally for a much longer period are concerned. No doubt the people who will qualify with 3 years' service will be most pleased with this provision. 
However, I make these qualifying comments: Whilst the Government thinks that perhaps this 3-year period of eligibility will help it obtain suitable recruits to the Services, it may find that this provision will have the backlash effect of enticing people to join the Services for just a 3-year period. This could therefore have a detrimental effect on the people who form the hard core of our permanent Regular Army, ft must be agreed that the principle of making war service home loans  - or defence service home loans as they are now to be called - available to serving servicemen, is a reasonable proposition. These people experience difficulty in obtaining suitable finance for home building from traditional lending institutions due to the nature of their occupation, as was made clear by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  They experience difficulty with home finance not only because of the nature of their occupation, but also because of the disadvantages inherent in Service life in relation to the acquisition of a permanent home. 
In conclusion, whilst this Bill has many good features I support the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  as does the rest of the Country Party. In summary, I reaffirm the comments I expressed at the start of my address. I repeat that I am disgusted with the Government because it has granted eligibility to a handful of national servicemen. This is an unprincipled and contemptible abrogation of the 55-year old principle that overseas service or enlistment for service anywhere qualifies a person for the privilege of a war service home loan. This provision relating to a very small number of national servicemen is in my opinion an insult to nearly 1 million ex-service men and women who enlisted for service anywhere. It is a shabby political bribe and deserves the condemnation of this House. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I preface it briefly by reminding him that the Australian Labor Party's pre-election policy speech stated that the Labor Government would ensure that the pension for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen would equal the minimum wage, that the general rate pension would be adjusted to  50  per cent of that wage and that other pensions and allowances would be adjusted proportionately. As the minimum wage recently was raised by  $9  a week and in order to keep faith with that pre-election promise, will these 2 major pensions - the TPI and the general rate - and other pensions and allowances be adjusted forthwith? Has the Minister any idea how much these adjustments would cost? 
I think that every honourable member with any sense of feeling for members of the Australian community would share the thoughts expressed by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  and other honourable members. Every member of all the Parties that are represented in this House of course wants to see ever person, no matter what is his financial position, adequately and suitably housed. But to be quite realistic, there will always be needy people in the community, as the honourable member for Batman implied. Another realistic fact is that there are not unlimited finances, materials and human resources to devote purely to housing. Therefore, there will always be this problem unless some unforeseeable miracle occurs. People in what we might call the very low income bracket will always have a problem in purchasing a home or even in finding a suitable home to rent. 
However, the point I want to make is that the Labor Government has no monopoly of concern for and interest in the average person, or perhaps even the below average person, in the Australian community. It is proposed that an amendment to one clause of this Bill will be moved by my colleague the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  The Australian Country Party will support the amendment that he proposes to move. In essence it is to amend the 30 per cent figure in clause 19 of the Schedule and make it 50 per cent. The Bills we are debating now are complementary to one another and have varying degrees of significance. The main Bill is the Housing Agreement Bill 1973. It contains 4 clauses and a schedule with 29 clauses. The Bill is a continuation of many such Bills which have been introduced in this House since 1945 when the Commonwealth Government first gave assistance to the State governments under an agreement regarding the provisions and use of finance for government housing purposes. These agreements have traditionally been negotiated and agreed to, at least in recent years, each 5 years. 
As I have said, the Commonwealth Government has been providing money since 1945. The second Bill authorises the Treasurer to make advances totalling $84.6m to the various States for the first 6 months of the next financial year, from 1 July 1973 to 31 December 1973. New South Wales will get $28.6m, Victoria $18.75m, Queensland $7.75m, South Australia $14.75m, Western Australia $ 10.5m and Tasmania $4.25m. Those figures should add up to a total of $84.6m for the first 6 months of the next financial year. The third Bill amends the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971 so as to withdraw Commonwealth assistance to the States in the form of grants of $2. 75m a year over 30 years in respect of any advance they may make to their housing authorities and their home builders' accounts during the next 3 financial years. However, the basic housing grant of $2.75m a year in respect of State housing activities in each of the last 2 financial years will continue to be paid for the remainder of the 30-year period. 
The major Bill, as I said, is the Housing Agreement Bill. It has 4 clauses and a Schedule with 29 clauses. One of the basic things in this Bill is that it asks for the approval of this Parliament for the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  to negotiate an agreement with the States in accordance with the terms of the Bill and its Schedule. The Schedule contains important terms and conditions which, if this Parliament - that is the House of Representatives and the Senate - agree to this Bill, the Commonwealth Minister will be authorised to offer to the States. There is disagreement among the Opposition Parties in this House - that is the Liberal Party and the Country Party - and also disagreement in every State Government about one particular figure in clause  19  of the Schedule. I shall deal with that more fully later. As is well known, a great deal of controversy, discussion and publicity has attached to meetings between the Federal and State Ministers over this matter, both at official meetings and through interviews with media representatives. To say that there has been considerable dissatisfaction on the part of State Ministers with many fundamental policies and proposals of the Labor Government and the new Minister for Housing would be rather understating the problem. The main reason for this fierce debate and opposition is that certain of the proposals in the Bill represent a complete departure from the traditional and basic conditions of previous Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. 
The Bill, to a certain extent, is not a definite clear cut proposal because it has not been agreed to by the States. Therefore it is difficult for this House to appraise and consider in a realistic way the provisions contained in the Schedule. Nevertheless we are forced into that position. Really the Bill only seeks the approval of the Parliament for the Minister to negotiate with the States. For the first time for some years there has been no final meeting of Federal and State Ministers at which a basic agreement has been reached on a major and fundamental point. This is a very unusual situation. Not only has no agreement been reached; according to my information, the situation is quite to the contrary. It could be inferred from the Schedule that the States had agreed to all the conditions contained in it, but my understanding is that this is definitely far from being the true position. 
It is not possible to cover all the details of all the circumstances and policies relating to housing provisions in every State in Australia in the few minutes at my disposal so I propose to confine my comments basically to the circumstances in my own State of Victoria. Other speakers - the honourable, member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  - have very competently dealt with certain aspects of this position but reiteration may not hurt. The concern of the Victorian Government reflects the general concern of other States. There is a strong and consistent note of genuine con cern - it is a common denominator - about the change of emphasis from State control of State finances and decisions regarding housing finance. The major point of concern is contained in clause  19 (1)  of the Schedule which states: 
Subject to sub-clause (2) of this clause, the Housing Authority of a State shall not sell more than 30 per centum of the family dwellings . . . 
That refers to the dwellings built with the money provided. The States are not to sell more than 30 per cent of such houses. Never in the history of Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements has any restriction been placed on the State Housing authorities and this is the burning point at issue: Whether we should agree in this House to a restriction, particularly one of 30 per cent. 
The Labor Minister for Housing certainly encountered very strong opposition on this aspect all along the line. From the time that he made his statement on  16  January he has been roundly condemned by all State Ministers - Country Party, Liberal Party and Labor Party - in the various State governments, and rightly so. His original proposal went against all the traditions and birthrights which the average Australian has valued so highly for many years. His original proposal was that this huge amount of Commonwealth money for the States - I calculated that it worked out over 5 years to be roughly about $84m, and probably more - could be used in future for rental houses only. Under that scheme many people no longer would have their traditional right of purchase. Many people in the income group just below the average weekly earning have depended for years on this type of housing to achieve their lifelong inbuilt ambition to own their own home and land. This traditional right is a basic ingredient of the expectation of thousands of Australians who for varying reasons find this type of home is the type that they are most capable of achieving. 
Evidence of their appreciation of and pride in the ownership of a Housing Commission house can be seen across the length and breadth of Australia, both in the capita! cities and in the rural areas. Under previous governments formed by the Liberal and Country Parties people felt secure in the knowledge that they would be able to use part of their weekly income for payments towards owning their own home rather than pay rent every week and at the end of each year have no asset to show for their money. They could do this, particularly in Victoria, almost by choice. The objective of the Commonwealth Minister for Housing in January was to take this away from them. This sense of security received a severe jolt with the election of a Labor Government and the appointment of the present Minister for Housing. The first rude awakening came with the bombshell announcement by the Minister on 16 January per medium of a 5i-page Press statement. The bombshell was more or less tucked away on page 4 of that statement, which said: 
I also propose that the sale of new homes built by the State Housing Authority after June 30 next be severely restricted, if not entirely prohibited, with sales to continue from their existing stock. 
This was the statement that really set the State Ministers of Housing alight and concerned a great number of people throughout Australia. The general theme of the statement was designed to give the impression that the new Labor Government was introducing a big new deal for people on low incomes, that at last here was a government which really cared about needy people. The Minister was obviously unaware of the situation in some States, particularly in Victoria. I will not repeat in detail the statistics that have already been mentioned by the honourable members for Bendigo and Herbert but one figure, I think, is very illustrative of the situation. Until 1955 only 52 out of 15,000 housing commission homes in Victoria were able to be purchased. Since then 34,000 out of 57,000 building units have been purchased at a very reasonable interest rate. The information I have is that there is no need at all to restrict sales in Victoria. However the Minister, by use of what I might term the technique of financial blackmail, has said to the State governments: 'Here is the money. You can take it under the condition that 30 per cent' - it was to be none - 'of the houses built can be sold. You can take the money at 4 per cent. If you do not do that you will take the money all right but you will pay the long term bond rate, which is  6i  per cent'. The calculation is that over 53 years the difference in cost to Victoria would be $175m or $3m a year. 
So this Bill seems to represent quite a sinister departure from Labor's professed policy of encouraging people on all sides and of all income levels to own their own homes. There have been no final discussions with the States. Many State Housing Ministers are very upset, as the Minister will no doubt ascertain with great definiteness when this Bill goes through the 2 Houses. All States are unanimous, I understand, that they want the figure in clause 19 increased from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. I understand that that was the effect of a motion that was moved, seconded and agreed to by all States in Adelaide recently. 
Just briefly I wish to relate this Bill to the situation in rural areas. Presuming that a satisfactory agreement can be reached between the State and Federal Ministers, I, particularly on behalf of the Australian Country Party, make special mention of the importance of the States spending in country areas a fair and substantial share of the $84.6m over the next 6 months and a similar substantial proportion of the millions of dollars that will be available over the next 5 years. If this happens the expenditure in rural areas will be an excellent investment for the Government and for the people of Australia. Extra houses in rural areas would make a tremendous contribution to the successful decentralisation of our population. Ever increasing amounts of money will need to be provided to get more houses in both metropolitan and rural areas. Costs are rising dramatically for several reasons. Lack of skilled tradesmen caused substantially by our reduced migration program, shortage of timber and other materials, rising wages not matched by increased productivity and longer holidays, are all causes of the rocketing costs of building a home. On top of all these causes, of course, the Commonwealth Government supports the stupid proposal to introduce a 35-hour week. This can only add further to the cost and the housing industry will be one of the areas worst affected by the 35-hour week. However the Labor Government apparently could not care less about public opinion or responsible economic management. The Minister for Housing, presumably with the complete support of the Labor Government, has brought this Bill to the House. Whilst there is general agreement with the objective of the Bill to provide Commonwealth-State housing money over 5 years, the amendment that is proposed to be moved by the honourable member for Herbert, which will be supported by myself and the Country Party, is the crux of the matter. It is to the effect that the homes available for sale should be increased to 50 per cent. &lt; 
Debate interrupted. 
The fundamental benefits and changes in the major Bill of these 3 Bills which are of great complexity, as mentioned by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  meet with the broad approval of the Australian Country Party as part of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. I compliment the honourable member for Isaacs in particular and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who both had the fortune to be members of the committee commonly known as the Jess Committee which was established in 1970 to investigate this extremely complex subject. The honourable member for Isaacs spelt out with preciseness and brevity some of the doubts he has about the effectiveness of the provisions of this Bill. Broadly speaking I share those doubts. I do not propose to go into the same detail as the honourable member for Isaacs but I will refer to some of the matters he mentioned during the course of his comments. lt should be put on record that by asking that the second reading of this Bill be proceeded with today in this House the Labor Party once again has illustrated its disregard for the normal traditions of the House and the rights of honourable members to have a reasonable time to consider the contents of Bills presented to them. I draw to the attention of honourable members the situation with these Bills. Last Friday afternoon the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply  (Mr Barnard)  introduced these Bills, one of which is a 79 page Bill containing 131 clauses. He wants them passed on the second sitting day since last Friday. Surely it is not reasonable to expect any members of the House who was not a member of the Jess Committee to be in the race even to read the contents of the Bills, let alone to have studied them in detail and to have had consultations with people affected by the Bills. I refer in particular to the servicemen and women of Australia. 
This is another example of the complete farce that the Labor Government is making of the Parliament. Surely the appropriate procedure would be to debate these Bills in the Budget session and make provision for retrospectivity to whatever date the Government decided. The Bills already contain a great deal of retrospectivity. To introduce these 3 Bills last Friday - particularly the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Bill which contains 139 clauses and covers 79 pages - and to expect the House to debate them now is not giving honourable members a fair deal. Basically the Bills are the result of the efforts of the Jess Committee which was formed in 1970 and which had the express and overriding objective of simplifying the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. 
Originally a request was made by the Government Members Defence Committee to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  when he was Prime Minister, to set up the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Legislation. As well as to simplify the provisions of the schemes, it was designed to make recommendations which would improve the complex schemes and also remove anomalies. By leaving the present schemes in existence the Labor Government seems to have made things more complex than ever before, particularly for the pre- 1959 contributors and the present recipients of superannuation benefits. The Jess Committee received about 450 written submissions from individuals, departments and organisations, and heard evidence from 65 witnesses. The main recommendation of the Committee was the introduction of a completely new scheme to replace the existing pre-1959 and post-1959 DFRB schemes which commenced 25 years ago, in 1948. 
The original scheme had much in common with the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. However, one of the major problems it encountered was its inflexibility. In 1957 a committee chaired by  Sir John  Allison was appointed to review the scheme. The result was a new scheme for members of the forces who joined up after 1959. It is known as the post-1959 scheme. The objective of the Jess Committee's report was to remove these 2 previous schemes with their complexities and establish one scheme that would be simplified and understood by all. However, that has not been achieved by the Bills presented to the House by the Labor Government. Of course, it is understandable that these Bills would be brought in by the Government. This is another move towards giving people an incentive to join the forces, particularly the Army and even to remain in them. Of course, the DFRB amendments are long overdue. 
The Labor Government has found also that it must find a substitute for national service training to encourage people to join the Army, in order to have a reasonable number of people in the armed Services. National service training contributed greatly towards maintaining our Army at an appropriate strength. However, the Labor Party was influenced by the strong 'peace' proponents and ideologists within the Labor Party's ranks, both inside and outside the Parliament. Eventually, after a long and, at times, rather emotional campaign they gradually infiltrated the minds and thinking of many good Australians. It is a shame that the Labor Party gives no recognition to the fact that since 1965 national service training has provided Australia with more than 40,000 men trained in various military areas. It has helped many young men in many ways and it has helped Australia. Personally I would not seek to retain national service military training, but it certainly seemed to me from my contacts with national servicemen that a vast majority of them approved of the scheme. 
As I said, the honourable member for Isaacs has dealt very comprehensively with his doubts about the effectiveness of the main Bill before us. I support his remarks. We are discussing about half a dozen Bills. I want to comment briefly on some of them. The major Bill - the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Bill - does not achieve simplicity. The objective was to get rid of the previous Acts. The Labor Government has not done this. It has retained the old DFRB Acts. This Bill does not deal with the problem of late entrant officers. It strikes a rate of contribution for a Service pension at 5.5 per cent of a serviceman's annual rate of pay, which can be compared with the rate of 5 per cent in the Public Service. Surely that is an anomaly. The Government has not been prepared to make a decision on the updating provisions which keep the superannuation payments of people who retire on pensions in line with average weekly earnings. That was recommended by the Jess Committee and seems to be a simple and fair procedure. It was accepted in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) legislation which has been passed by this House but has not yet been passed by the Senate. 
This Bill introduced by the Labor Government does not implement the recommendation on updating. As the honourable member for Isaacs said, the Government seems to be more inclined towards the Pollard recommendation which involves an adjustment based on a change in the consumer price index. The final glaring anomaly which indicates that this is either a complete abrogation of responsibility to the widows of the ex-servicemen of this country or a complete lack of co-operation between the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  is that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which was introduced in this Parliament placed the widow of a member of the Public Service who died during the course of his duties, or while travelling to or from work, on full pay for life plus adjusted payments according to the rise in salary for the particular class in which the member of the Public Service was employed. If an exserviceman dies his widow is only 50 per cent as well off as a widow of a public servant. In almost successive weeks, or at least very closely together, we have been presented with 2 very important and wide ranging pieces of legislation by this Labor Government and we have a shameful anomaly in the provision for widows of servicemen. 
Finally I refer to the setting up of an appeal system, which is a very praiseworthy inauguration. The people who are dissatisfied with the assessment of the rates of their DFRB pensions will now be able to appeal to a tribunal. The Minister in his second reading speech said merely that they will be able to appeal to a tribunal but I would have thought it would have been competent for him and not beyond the bounds of possibility to set out the composition of the tribunal and the procedures which it would adopt. There is no possibility of discussing the manner of composition of the tribunal and the methods it will use because these are not set out in the Bill. I draw attention to a statement in the second reading speech which is misleading. The Minister said that the Jess Committee report 'recommended the introduction of a new scheme which, with some necessary modifications, is the scheme covered by the first Bill introduced'. This is inaccurate. Speakers, including myself, have pointed out that quite significant departures have been made from the Jess Committee report. Perhaps the Minister will say when he is replying who thought the modifications were necessary. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the North Vietnamese Government is continuing blatantly to breach the article of the Vietnam peace agreement which requires the withdrawal of all foreign armed forces from Laos and Cambodia? If he is aware of this, as he surely must be, will he send an official note to the North Vietnamese Government indicating that the Australian Government supports this article and requesting the North Vietnamese Government to honour it forthwith? 
-The Australian Country Party supports this measure. It certainly appears that the provisions of this Bill are very necessary. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who has just resumed his seat waxed eloquent, and was supported by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who is at the table, in talking about the Labor Party's efforts since it has been in Government in building up our armed forces. As the Minister for Defence said in his speech this measure has been designed in pursuit of the Government's determination to provide an adequate volunteer force. I certainly ope for Australia's sake and the Labor Government's sake that it has better results than we have seen to date in recruiting people and maintaining the size of our armed forces, particularly the Army, which has dropped in size from 41,000 to about 31,000 since the Labor Government took office. 
Honourable members opposite talk about the success that policies and measures of the Labor Government have had in terms of assisting the Army. This is why I say that the provisions of this Bill are obviously very necessary. Certainly they could receive a great deal of use particularly if the Labor Party pursues its extraordinary policies of doing everything it can to do away with the incentive for people to join the armed forces. Troops have been withdrawn from Singapore and there will be no overseas postings as an inducement to recruitment. We read in this morning's papers- and I presume that this will be confirmed in tonight's Budget- that there will be a slash in Army expenditure. Statements such as 'Savage cuts in the expenditure for our armed forces' appear. This will be a great incentive to people to join the armed forces of this country! It will boost the morale, I am sure, of the many wonderful soldiers, airmen and sailors whom we have already in our forces! However, we do not want to judge a situation too hastily. I put to the Minister for Defence, the Government and the people of Australia that there are dangerous signs with respect to the weakening of Australia's defence forces. If this trend continues we will be one of the worst defended countries, particularly in view of the geographical size of our country, its wealth and the standard of living that we enjoy. 
I deal now with the objectives contained in this Bill. The Repatriation Department will have a basic concern for the administration and decision making in respect of some of these matters. As I understand it, the well-established regional committees and the Central Training Committee which are headed by people from the Repatriation Department and staffed by representatives of many other departments will continue to make the administrative decisions in areas such as business loans, primary industry loans and rehabilitation. Business loans will still be made by the Repatriation Department whereas primary industry loans will be made by the Department of Primary Industry. Rehabilitation of those members of the armed forces who are not disabled by war service will, I understand, be provided by the Department of Social Security unless they had war service overseas. As this Bill applies basically to regular servicemen some conditions will be different. 
-For the information of the honourable member for Bowman, there are national servicemen. They have been covered by this legislation for many years. These provisions are to apply to people who voluntarily join the Army as regular servicemen. Naturally different conditions will apply to them. The criteria are not set out in the Minister's second reading speech, but no doubt in the normal administrative procedures certain changes in criteria will apply in the granting of business or primary industry loans. When national servicemen were the only recipients of these loans one of the conditions was that the purpose for which the loan was sought had to have some relationship to their previous occupation. Some members of the Regular Army have been in the Army for up to 20 years, so that criteria would not be applicable to them. No doubt the authorities, who have done a splendid job in the past in administering these benefits for national servicemen, will continue to use their experience. Each case will be carefully studied by the members of these administrative departments and decided on its merits, bearing in mind the soldier's background and ability. In view of the exigencies of time and the program of the House I conclude by saying that I certainly hope that this measure will counter the drastic fall-off in recruitment for our armed forces. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kerin)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. It refers to the announcement by the Treasurer last night that $33m would be available for the development of AlburyWodonga and other growth centres. an the Minister name the other centres? Will he give details of the amounts of money available to the various centres and also the purpose for which this money will be used? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented along the same lines as the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England). 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  To correct the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the speech of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  is not being interrupted. He has not commenced it yet. 
I am one of the other members who have been misrepresented by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  In the 6 elections which I have contested on behalf of the Country Party I have obtained more than 50 per cent of the primary votes on 2 occasions. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In order that the nation may make an assessment of the overall cost of the proposed national health scheme to the taxpayer, will the Minister state what are the amounts of the second and third means of financing the scheme, which are described in the pamphlet "The Plain Facts' as the levy on workers compensation and third party motor vehicle insurance? Also, is it a fact that some of the costs forecast in the Deeble-Scotton report for 1974-75 have already been exceeded? 
-As has been indicated by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who spoke first for the Opposition on this Bill, the Opposition will support the legislation. On behalf of the Australian Country Party I indicate that that Party supports the Bill. But our support comes with quite severe reservations because of certain provisions in the Bill, and I will outline the reasons for them as I go along. 1 have studied the provisions of the Bill, particularly the new ones. It seems to me that because of the number of almost pure social service measures in this Bill one could forecast that the Repatriation Department will be abolished as a separate entity by the Labor Government and absorbed by that empire building department, the Department of Social Security. At the outset I want to issue a challenge to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  who is the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  in this House and who is at the table now, and also the Minister for Repatriation and the 
Government, to refute this prediction and to announce the Government's intentions in regard to the Repatriation Department. The Government has a responsibility to make its intentions clear. It has a responsibility to the 800,000 surviving ex-servicemen and women, to the ex-service organisations and, above all, to the nearly 10,000 people on the staff of the Repatriation Department. Members of the Department from clerks to the professional people such as doctors, nursing sisters and senior officers, must be told about the future position of the Department in clear and unequivocal terms. 
As mentioned by the honourable member for Herbert, rumours are prevalent that the Repatriation Department will disappear as a department. The only public statement 1 know of on this matter was a rather vague answer which was given in the Senate last week by the Minister for Repatriation, for whom I have a deal of respect. When he was asked whether the Repatriation Department would be absorbed and abolished he said that as far as he and the Minister for Defence were concerned, they would strongly resist any attempt to bring that about. I suggest that this statement is not sufficient. I challenge the Government to make a definite statement of policy on the future of the Department and not to say that a couple of Ministers will resist the idea as strongly as they possibly can. When I looked at the provisions of the Bill I wondered whether  Dr Coombs  had had his sticky fingers in this area also. I wondered whether he had made some entry into this field. On this point I urge the Returned Services League and other ex-service organisations to speak up loud and clear and to demand that the Repatriation Department be retained as a specialist organisation responsible for and to the 800,000 ex-service men and women who defended their country when defence was needed. I am not the only one who has doubts or concern about this matter. The RSL in its national newsletter of 1 June this year has also expressed its concern. It stated: 
The RSL is concerned at a spate of rumours drifting round the corridors of power that the Repatriation Department may be absorbed into a Health and Welfare complex, and Repatriation hospitals transferred to either Commonwealth or State control. 
The Prime Minister has been advised ir a letter from the National Office that the RSL is implacably opposed to any such suggestions. It has been indicated to  Mr Whitlam  that the Repatriation 
Department and its many facilities represent a national response to an undertaking given in a time of war. 
Not only am I, as a member of the Opposition and as a former Minister for Repatriation, concerned, but also members of the Australian Country Party, members of the Opposition generally, the RSL and the 800,000 ex-service men and women want to know the position. The large and skilled professional staff of the Department want to know the position. Again I challenge the Deputy Prime Minister to ensure that the Government makes a clear and unequivocal statement, if possible here and now, giving a firm policy commitment which will retain the Repatriation Department. The second challenge I issue to the Government is one which I issued when I spoke in this House in March this year. It still has not been answered. I challenge the Government to specify exactly what is meant in the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party where the Prime Minister stated: 
The basic compensation payments under the Repatriation Act will be given a fixed relationship with the Commonwealth minimum wage so that the special (TPI) rate equals the minimum wage- 
It does not - and the general (100 per cent) rate pension equals SO per cent of the minimum wage- 
And it does not. What that means is quite clear; it is the rest of the sentence that I think should be clarified, and I challenge the Deputy Prime Minister to clarify it. The sentence continues: and other pension rates and allowances are adjusted proportionately. 
I think the  House  and all the other people to whom I have been referring have a right to know exactly what 'and other pension rates and allowances are adjusted proportionately' means. On performances to date, the people vitally interested in repatriation have been misled by the tone and implication of this paragraph. I will show why and how, shortly. Accompanying this Bill is an explanatory memorandum which has been made available to all honourable members. It is an excellent document and, having been Minister for Repatriation, I can appreciate the amount of time and effort that some senior officers of the Department have had to devote to preparing this paper; I compliment them on it. It is most helpful in enabling members to understand the wide ramifications of this Bill. 
I said that people had been misled by the paragraph on repatriation in the Labor Party's policy speech. I will now illustrate how this is the truth and I urge the Returned Services League and other interested bodies to get stuck into the Government for reneging and welshing on its promises. In his pre-election speech, the Prime Minister promised that the totally and permanently incapacitated pension would equal the minimum wage. The implication was that this would take effect as from when the Australian Labor Party became the Government. The Labor Government has failed to live up to this promise. The minimum wage has been $60.10 since about May of this year. The TPI pension will not reach that figure until autumn next year - say, March. So, about 20,000 TPI pensioners have been misled as to the level of pension they could expect and will be underpaid for a period of about 10 months. They will lose a total of $8m over this period. The Government should be ashamed of itself for breaking its word to the TPI pensioners of Australia. Even when the pension is raised to the present $60.10 in the autumn of next year, it will by then have been or be about to be outdated by a new minimum wage. A decision probably will have been taken by then to raise the minimum wage to counter the dreadful effect of the roaring inflation which has been tremendously stimulated by the nohoping economic policies of this Government. So, where will the promise of the Government to make the TPI pension rate equal to the minimum wage be then? 
Another major let-down for the ex-service men and women is in the area of the general rate pension. Admittedly, there is to be a significant increase. However, I believe that some 27,000 general rate pensioners between the 75 per cent and 100 per cent disability rates will receive no increase at all under this Bill; nor will they receive any increase in the autumn of next year. But, once again, the increased rates announced are not in keeping with the promises made by the Prime Minister before the election. Surely, many people, already confronted with a growing list of broken promises, have completely lost faith in the credibility of the Prime Minister and the undertakings he gave in bis Utopia-like preelection speech. The Prime Minister said that the general rate of pension would be adjusted so that it reached 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The increase provided for in this 
Bill, namely $3, leaves the general rate pension $11.05 behind the Labor Government's promise of nearly a year ago. It is just as far behind as it was when Labor came into office. The deficit of $11.05 a week represents a total of $44m on the present minimum wage, or extra expenditure of $44m. Even when another $3 a week is added next autumn, if the minimum wage is the same the payment will still be $8.05 a week behind or a total of $32m behind 50 per cent of the present minimum wage. As I mentioned earlier, by that time there will probably have been a further increase in the wage. 
The Labor Government stands indicted on its promises in the repatriation field. For the factual reasons I have advanced the Government deserves to be condemned by the 800,000 ex-servicemen and women of Australia and the Service organisations that represent them. I have a fair idea of what is in the mind of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  who is at the table. For many years he had a few words to say on this side of the House about the repatriation policies of the government of the day. He is saying to himself, as he almost implied by interjection: We put the pensions up more than you did'. 
I am not arguing the pros and cons of the economic responsibility. I have no doubt that the honourable gentleman will say: 'We have put the pensions up a lot more than you did when you were in government - or some of them.' I am not referring to whether economic irresponsibility has been displayed by the Labor Government in making increases in pensions. I am arguing that Labor has not stuck to its promises solemnly and sincerely given by the present Prime Minister when he broadcast his election speech. He promised about 1 million exservicemen and women that a Labor government would take certain action in regard to repatriation pensions, including the general rate pension and the pension for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen. He said that Labor would take action proportionately with regard to other pensions and allowances. That promise has not been carried out and therefore the Labor Government has something to answer for in that regard. It is no argument for the Government to say that it has raised pensions significantly. The test that must be applied is whether the Prime Minis ter has done , for ex-servicemen and women and the organisations representing them - the Returned Services League and others - what he promised he would do. 
That is quite right. The answer is no, he has not carried out his promise and I hope the ex-servicemen and women of this country will register their disapproval at the appropriate time. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: While not refusing to give the Bill a second reading in this House - 
expresses reservations with the establishment of a complex new Commonwealth instrumentality for which the Government was not given a mandate by the Australian people; 
is concerned at vagueness and lack of definition of the proposals and considers the Commission should be termed an interim Commission until more definite proposals as to its powers and functions are available; 
is concerned at the overlap with existing Government departments, of interference in present activities and possible loss of staff; and 
sees a danger of domination and possible elimination of State Government and voluntary agency welfare Services'. 
I have only 12 minutes remaining in which to speak to this important Bill. This does not afford much opportunity for me to express at length my thoughts on it. I shall deal with the amendment as I proceed. As honourable members know, the Bill is designed officially to establish the Social Welfare Commission. In my judgment it is appropriate to question whether this Commission is really necessary. It will be one of more than 40 new commissions and boards created by the Labor Government which seems to have gone commission happy. In the Labor Party's policy speech there was no mention of this new instrumentality, to be known as the Social Welfare Commission, being set up. This is another example of the Government having misled and misinformed the people. The second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was vague, as was the first annual report of the Social Welfare Commission which, incidentally, this Bill seeks to establish although it has already produced an annual report, and also the booklet entitled 'The Australian Assistance Plan'. These 3 documents are all vague and it is not possible for an informed judgment to be made or informed debate to be conducted. 
It does appear that this Commission may be duplicating many services that presently are working well. The eventual function of the Commission could be that of a giant government machine with an enormous expenditure budget conveying with it gigantic economic strength and administrative centralist domination. In his second reading speech' the Minister attempted to dismiss in almost one sentence any concern that the establishment of this new Commission' could be thought to be a centralist move. I want it clearly understood that I believe that the broad concept is to be commended, but the way of achieving it is very questionable because it is another move towards centralising power in Canberra and even . towards abolishing the Department of Social Security and other departments. 
The Minister's second reading speech, the booklet entitled 'The Australian Assistance Plan' and the annual report of the Social Welfare Commission are full of references to links between the Commonwealth and regional areas. In that regard this Bill follows a similar pattern to that of the Grants Commission Bill. These documents certainly mention the States but I can see no definition of the link with regional areas. Although mention is made of the States and links with them, I can see the State authorities either being phased out or by-passed by the power of money. It is well known that the organisation which provides the money will be the organisation which will dominate the administration of the Commission. Who will provide the funds? It is not possible to give a definite answer to that question. However, every indicator points to the Commonwealth Government providing the bulk of the money. Therefore, the Commission could be fairly said to be another move to centralise more power in Canberra over a far-reaching range of government departments, State and Federal. 
To attempt to obtain some basic understanding of this Bill it is necessary to concentrate on 4 documents. They are the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security, who is obviously a strong disciple of Parkinson's law, the first annual report of the Social Welfare Commission, the Australian Assistance Plan compiled by members of the Social Welfare Commission and the transcript of the comments made by  Mrs Coleman  on the television program 'Monday Conference' a few weeks ago. It is possible to make only a very brief reference to each of those 4 documents in the time available to me. The  'Mrs Coleman'  to whom I have referred will be the full time  Chairman  of the Social Welfare Commission - at least, I presume she will be. She has been up to date. I presume that if this Bill is passed by both Houses of the Parliament she will be appointed as full time  Chairman  of the Social 
Welfare Commission, which has been operating for 6 months or so without any authority from this Parliament. I have said that broadly speaking the concept of this Bill is a good one, but it is absolutely staggering to me that the Government should set up the. Commission and appoint a Chairman and 9 members to it and for it to be working for 6 months without the consent of the Parliament. 
I heard an interjection that it is an interim committee. I have in front of me the first annual report of the Australian Social Welfare Commission. The fact of the matter is that it will not be an official body until this Bill is passed by this House and the Senate. This seems to me to be quite in keeping with the contempt that is being shown by the Government to the Parliament. We have seen it with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at question time. I guarantee that he has not answered 50 per cent of the questions that have been put to him. We have seen it with the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  We now see it with the. Minister for Social Security. This Commission has been in operation for 6 months without any charter from the Governor-General. If I have time to do so I will deal with certain sections of the Bill which indicate that the Governor-General has to make the necessary appointments. Parliament has been ignored in the. setting up of the Social Welfare Commission. This is a very wide ranging piece of legislation, as anyone who reads the Australian Assistance Plan will see but even if it were only a minor Bill, relatively speaking, it would be still showing contempt for the Parliament to have such a commission operating for so long without parliamentary approval. I say that it is quite typical of the Government that it should do this. 
I referred earlier to the transcript of an interview on the television program 'Monday Conference' with  Mrs Coleman,  who is the full time  Chairman  of the Commission. I want to raise another matter that I think is a matter of principle. If I am wrong the Minister may correct me later on. As far as I know the position of  Chairman  of the Social Welfare Commission, which carries with it the status of Permanent Head of a Government department and a salary of $25,000 a year plus allowances, including a $34 a day travelling allowance, was not advertised. 
The Minister for Social Security agrees with me. Fancy the Minister talking about the wasting of money. He has just spent more than Sim of the taxpayers' money on putting out a pamphlet supporting his health scheme but he would not spend a couple of hundred dollars advertising the position of  Chairman  of such a far reaching and important body as the Social Welfare Commission. 
I leave it to the people of Australia to make their own assessment. The Minister's actions were an insult to the members of the Public Service and, to a certain extent, an affront to the social workers or any other persons around Australia who would have applied for the position if it had been advertised. I am not reflecting upon the person who was appointed; I am reflecting upon the principle of not advertising the position. I do not intend to discuss the comments made on the 'Monday Conference' program to any great extent, except to quote 3 paragraphs from the transcript of it. I would like anyone who does not think that the fears I have expressed in the amendment I have moved, to the effect that this organisation could be a tremendous move towards further centralism of power in Canberra, are warranted to listen to the quotation I wish to make from the transcript of the interview on 'Monday Conference' with  Mrs Coleman.  Robert Moore asked:   . . is there some much bigger, granted social welfare plan quite unlike anything we've even known before, that the Government has in mind? 

 Mrs Coleman said: 
Well, whether it's in the mind or whether it's a gleam in somebody's eye at the moment I guess is the operative question, but we certainly do not want to try to completely restructure the social welfare system . . . 
What is going to happen to the departments of Social Security, Health and Repatriation - to name 3 of them - which have social workers working for them? The Department of Social Security has hundreds of social workers working for it. What are they going to be doing? Why can they not advise the Government on this matter?  Mrs Coleman  went on to say:   . . if one is talking there about the network of cash benefits that are paid as income supports for various people, and the range of personal welfare services that are provided  f -  various people for particular purposes. But in addition to that I think the  function of the Social Welfare Commission is very much broader than to think in terms of even an amended system which will catch the casualties, so to speak. We're very concerned to try to make some kind of very broad policy input in the whole area of the social consequences of other areas of Government policy so that, for example, we're profoundly concerned with the social implications of housing policy, the social implications of migration policy. 
It looks as if every government department is going to have a member of the Social Welfare Commission within its organisation - that is, if they are not all swallowed up by it. 
There has been some ridiculing of that comment. I feel that someone has to flag a warning. Only time will tell whether what I am saying has any substance to it. I have quoted just a couple of paragraphs from a 25-page transcript.  Mrs Coleman  and her Commission have outlined for themselves a huge ambit of power and influence. A close watch will need to be kept on the progress of this organisation which has all the earmarks and ingredients of attempting to forge itself into a super overriding bureaucratic structure which will extend its tentacles and authority into practically every government department and everyone's life in Australia. 
At least I can read. That is more than the Minister can do. Those of us in this Parliament - particularly members of the Country Party - who represent the country areas will be seeking to obtain the answers to some questions. Are the Government and the Commission to make a special effort to help to attract more social workers and trained personnel to country areas? If funds are provided on a per capita basis it woud seem that there could be cause for concern that more of the available money and personnel will be directed to the densely populated metropolitan areas. 
Members of the Country Party and other members representing people living outside Melbourne and Sydney appreciate that there are more people and more problems and therefore greater necessity for more trained staff in the metropolitan areas. But those who represent non-metropolitan areas in this Parliament have a duty to speak up for our people. We must not, and will not, allow the deafening silence on behalf of the non-metropolitan people exhibited by the Labor Ministers and the members who represent the country people to paralyse our voices too. People living outside the capital cities already have been treated shockingly and savagely by this Labor Government. Not only have the rural people received no help from this Labor Government but also actually have had their incomes reduced and expenses increased over a wide range of goods and services. 
As I implied earlier it could be fairly said that a great part of the Minister's second reading speech, the discussion paper No. 1 and the Social Welfare Commission Annual Report consist of cliches, vague statements, no expenditure estimates - which is typical of many of the pieces of legislation which recently have been brought into this Parliament - and hard to define technical jargon. Looking at the whole concept in a very broad way it must be conceded that there are some socially worthy and desirable features. There seems to be a desire and an aim to encourage more people to involve themselves in a much wider range of welfare activities. It is hoped that there will be an increasing feeling of community involvement in areas of social welfare which previously has been lacking in many communities. It is clear that an improved quality of life can result only from more people involving themselves with and assisting local welfare programs. However, I pose the question: Do we need a huge new national welfare commission to achieve these aims? 
It must be conceded that the objective and concept of improved provision and awareness of social welfare will assist many Australians. However, I believe the effectiveness of the scheme and the achievement of its objectives will depend on many factors, one of which is co-operation with State organisations and cooperation with and encouragement of voluntary agencies to ensure that maximum use is made of their experience and skills. Clients must retain the right to choose from a variety of organisations for help, rather than being dealt with by one big bureaucracy. Co-operation must be achieved with regional areas, particularly making sure that there is maximum community involvement. It must be ensured that rural areas outside the capital cities obtain a fair share of money and personnel. Maximum use must be made of the skills and knowledge of people who already live in the rural areas. The success of the scheme will depend on its ability to attract suitably trained personnel and not on robbing other departments and services of trained workers. Care must be taken not to overlap and interfere with established departments, which I fear will happen if the Commission is allowed a free rein. As my time is almost up I remind the House that I moved the amendment to put on record some of the concerns of members of this Parliament towards the Social Welfare Commission Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 

Listening to the remarks of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  I think I could be excused for believing that this chamber was a mutual admiration society. The proposal he is putting forward has obviously been his dream for some considerable time but he seems to think that it is out of order for people to put forward ideas that conflict with /those held by him and even by some other honourable members. Time will tell whether any or all of my comments relating to certain aspects of the Bill are correct. If this is not a centralist move it will be about the first time that this Government has not aimed more and more at centralism on issues concerning a great many people around Australia. 
The Minister did not dispute the fact that it is generally recognised that where the funds come from lies the power. He said himself that it is the responsibility of the Australian Government to fund adequately the social welfare services throughout Australia. I stick to the principle that the source of the funds will turn out to be the source of the power and the body that will dominate this scheme. He said something about the health scheme pamphlets and he drew attention to the proposals of the scheme.  Mr Chairman,  is it in order for me to refer to those remarks of the Minister? 
Clause 14 of the Bill sets out the functions of the Commission. It states: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to ascertain, and report to the Minister on, the social welfare needs of the community and to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of those needs; 
to make recommendations to the Minister for furthering the achievement of a nationally integrated social welfare plan - 
Paragraph (a) states that the Commission is to report to the Minister. I would have thought that somewhere in this Bill provision would be made for the Commission to report to Parliament. I may be misunderstanding the provisions of the Bill. It is not easy to get the definite meaning of every single part of the Bill. I have searched the Bill to see whether there is a requirement for this Social Welfare Commission - that is a rather awe inspiring concept - to report to the Parliament and not only to the Minister. Sub-paragraph (vi) of paragraph (b) states: recommendations for avoiding the duplication of social welfare programs - 
This seems to me to indicate the elimination or abolition of some of the existing social welfare programs. Sub-paragraph (iv) of the same paragraph refers to recommendations for the co-ordination of social welfare activities of organisations. It would be interesting to know the definition or the eventual result of the word 'co-ordination'. 'Co-ordination' to the average person means working together, but it can mean in this context the subjugation of many agencies to make sure that they toe the line and do what they are told by Big Brother in Canberra. Paragraph (c) of clause 14 states: to estimate, and report to the Minister- 
Once again there is no mention of Parliament on, the likely cost of proposed social welfare programs and to advise the Minister on the relative priorities to be given to the implementation of those programs; 
What is the Department of Social Security for? What is the purpose of officers of other departments such as the Departments of Immigration and Housing? Is the Department of Housing still be the Department of Housing or it to be the Department of National Construction? That is an impressive title. The Department of Housing has officers well equipped and well served wim advice on proposed social welfare programs. But the most important department to me seems to be the Department of Social Security, which served this country very well as the Department of Social Services over the years. It has been able to advise the respective Ministers and the governments of the day with great expertise on social welfare programs and problems, aided of course by information obtained from interdepartmental committees comprising its own representatives and those from other departments. Surely there is some duplication here, or there seems to be some threat to the Department of Social Security. I turn to clause 17. 
The general public ought to be most concerned about the provisions and the ramifications of this clause. It states: 
The Commission may appoint a Committee to assist the Commission in relation to a matter. 
It does not say that the Commission has to get the permission of the Minister to appoint a committee. It virtually puts in the hands of a  chairman,  a  deputy chairman  and 9 commissioners, who together with their respective staff are all being paid by the taxpayers, the power to appoint a committee on any matter at all, and as far as I can see the committee can be of any size. It may be a committee of 10, it may be a committee of 200 people who will have their fees, expenses and allowances as prescribed paid by the taxpayers of this country. It seems extraordinary to me to have a provision in a Bill to give a blank cheque to an organisation such as the Social Welfare Commission to set up a committee on any matter and the committee can have any number of members. There is no restriction. To me this seems to be a most irresponsible move. Mind you, I agree with the Minister that there does not seem to be a great deal of concern and worry at the moment about this matter but let us see how things eventuate. This sort of thing could easily be attended to by parliamentary committees. We have parliamentary committees now covering a wide range of matters, but we are giving a statutory body which has a tremendous amount of autonomy the authority to set up a committee on any matter. I think this is most irresponsible. There should be at least consultation with the Minister on whether a committee is necessary. Maybe there is some provision in the Bill for consultation with the Minister. 
That is a very interesting interjection from the Minister. It shows that he is a bit uptight about some of the comments I have been making. It is the first time I have ever heard the Minister use bad language in the chamber. It indicates that he has some problems. I can understand that he has problems, for sure. I am afraid I cannot wish him good luck with them. That is a most interesting interjection to have recorded. I have made the basic comments I wanted to make at the Committee stage on the various clauses of the Bill. 
The Minister referred to my critical attitude to this Bill but he did not mention that I agreed that it had some worthy objectives and passed some commendatory remarks concerning the establishment of the Commission. I feel it my duty to point out some flashing red lights and register warnings about what could happen under this particular provision concerning the establishment of the Social Welfare Commission. If the Minister would answer my specific question concerning the Commission in more parliamentary terms I would be interested to hear him. I should like to know whether the Commission may appoint a committee without the Minister's permission and determine its composition and the matters to which the committee addresses itself without reference to the Minister. With those comments I leave the matter for further consideration by the Committee. 
As the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  said in his second reading speech, the purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make advances to the States for welfare housing during 1973-74 and the first 6 months of 1974-75 in accordance with the provisions of the 1973 Housing Agreement. The short title of the Bill interests me. The Bill is entitled 'States Grants (Housing Assistance Bill (No. 2)'. I direct attention to the words 'States Grants'. The money is to be provided by way of loan. This is the usual procedure and Bills for this purpose use the words States Grants'. But I must admit that the words seem to be a bit of a misnomer. Perhaps it would be more appropriate if the Bill were entitled 'Loan (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2)'. There may be some technical explanation for the use of the words 'States Grants'. The point that occurs to me is that the Bill proposes not a grant of money but a loan at a low rate of interest to the State housing authorities. 
The Housing Agreement Bill 1973 was introduced on 16 May 1973 by the Minister for Housing, together with 2 other Bills - the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1973 and the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1973. As the Minister stated in his introductory remarks, these Bills are all inter-related. The purpose of the Housing Agreement Bill was to obtain parliamentary approval for the Commonwealth to execute an agreement with each State, substantially in accordance with the form contained in the Schedule to the Bill. The Agreement provided that in. each of the 5 years commencing 1973-74 the Commonwealth would make advances at low interest rates to the States for welfare housing purposes. It differed from previous CommonwealthState housing agreements in that it placed a limit on the number of houses that the various States could sell to those who wished to achieve what most Australians aim for, that is, to own their own homes. The limit placed on the States in the Bill was that they could sell no more than 30 per cent of the homes built by the various State housing commissions. 
This limitation, which represented an unprecedented dictation to the States as to the disposal of housing, was hotly resented by all States. This feeling of resentment was demonstrated by all States at a meeting in Adelaide passing a unanimous resolution asking that the 30 per cent limitation be increased to 50 per cent. However, the Minister held to his hard line that the States had to accept his terms that only 30 per cent of the houses could be sold and that the remaining 70 per cent were for rental only. At least the States, which were to receive a total of $3*27,975,000 under this Agreement, were able to force the Minister to depart from his original proposal that the houses constructed with this money should all be available for rental only. As many people said at the time, this was a classic example of the socialist philosophy being carried out as the proposal was that rental homes only should be provided by the expenditure of this Commonwealth money by State housing authorities. 
The Premiers and the State Ministers for Housing - Labor, Liberal and Country Party - really dug their toes in when the Minister proposed this course of action, which went against all the traditions, birthrights and ambitions of the average Australian family to own their own home. This desire for people to own their own homes is deeply seated in the majority of Australian people, no matter what their incomes or backgrounds are. Yet, we had the frightening spectacle of a Labor Minister for Housing proposing to the States that the huge sum of $327,975,000 over a period of 18 months could be spent on providing houses for rental only. He was proposing that none of the houses to be built from those funds was to be sold to people who, in order to qualify for such houses, could not earn more than average weekly earnings. Thousands of people could see their chance of ever owning a home disappearing completely. 
Members of this Parliament and members of the public were shocked and amazed that the Australian Labor Party, through the Minister for Housing, was proposing that these houses would be available for rental only. This action came from the Party which professes that it will do everything possible to encourage people to own their own homes. The huge sum of $327,975,000 was provided for housing with the provision that none of the homes built from those funds was to be for sale. However, the States were able to make the Minister back off from his socialist approach. The 1973 Housing Agreement now allows for the sale of 30 per cent of the homes constructed from this allocation. 
The money referred to in this Bill is an increase of 26 per cent on the amount spent by the States in providing housing commission homes last financial year. However, I suggest that the increase does not represent as much as it appears to represent. As a result of the galloping inflation which has been experienced since the Labor Party came to government, the actual number of homes that will be constructed with this amount, despite the 26 per cent increase probably will be not many more than were built last financial year. The roaring inflation that Australia is experiencing has hit the building industry and the home buyers probably harder than any other area. Much of this inflation has been caused by shortages of basic materials, which in turn have been caused to a degree by strikes and the demand for homes. The rate of house building completions has slowed down under this Government because of these factors. Home construction has become more expensive. Yet, a 35-hour week is still being sought. The States will need, I suggest, every cent of this extra money just to keep pace with the previous rate of construction and the demand and, perhaps, these funds will not make much impression at all on the waiting list for housing commission homes. 
The Minister said in his second reading speech that the 1973 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is still awaiting formal ratification by the States. I understand that it will be only a matter of time before this is formally achieved and that some States have already passed the necessary legislation. The Minister also said that about 30 per cent of the amount advanced will be made available to terminating building societies and similar institutions. I have been informed that the figure may be nearer 20 per cent. Perhaps the Minister will state whether it will be a definite figure of, say, 28 per cent or 30 per cent. The Minister may be able to clarify that situation during his reply. 
I understand that many terminating building societies are having the obligations to them discharged more quickly than was anticipated when the debts were first undertaken by their clients and that this is causing some problems because of the under use of staff. Perhaps consideration could be given to making a greater share of the money available to terminating building societies and similar institutions in the future. It is maintained by some people that because the clients of building societies use private enterprise builders the money, balanced with the quality of the house, is used more efficiently by these societies than by government authorities. I am not technically qualified to support or reject that statement. However, it does seem that it could have some weight to it. Perhaps this aspect will be considered at a future time. 
Under the terms of this Bill, New South Wales will receive $86m this financial year and $43m in the first 6 months of the next financial year. The corresponding figures for the other States are: Victoria, $53.5m and $26.7 5m: Queensland, Sl7.4m and $8.7m; South Australia, $32.75m and $16. 375m; Western Australia, $13m and $6.5m; and Tasmania, $16m and 8m. The respective totals are $2 18.65m for this financial year and $109.325m for the first 6 months of next year. Twenty per cent te 30 per cent of that is to go to the terminating building societies and similar institutions. The remaining 70 per cent to 80 per cent is to go to the State housing commission authorities. Thirty per cent of the houses that are built with that 70 per cent or 80 per cent of the money will be available for sale and 70 per cent for rental. That will hit some people hard, particularly in Victoria, where the sale of housing commission homes has been running at the rate of about 60 per cent since 1955. That number will be halved. Whilst it must be conceded that a certain number of houses must be available for rental to persons for a variety of reasons, it is most regrettable that many people who are, judging on past figures, battlers - average working men - will be denied the chance to purchase a home at a cost within their means and ambitions because of the restriction on the sale of housing commission homes. I submit, as did the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  that the State governments should have been allowed to continue to use their own judgment, taking into account the differing circumstances in the different States. 
I wish to refer briefly to the urgent need for housing outside the capital cities. I hope that a substantial part of the total of $328m to be made available will be spent on houses in areas outside the capital cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. In fact, if any conditions are to be placed on, in particular, the expenditure of this money and the use of the homes they should be that a certain percentage has to be spent on housing in country areas. Practically all of the towns and cities in my electorate of Indi, particularly Wodonga, Wangaratta and Benalla, are experiencing a housing shortage. I think this position obtains almost everywhere outside the capital cities. I register the fact that this housing problem does exist in non-metropolitan areas and hope that urgent and high priority will be given by the States to the overcoming of this situation, thereby assisting the population and economic development of areas outside our capital cities. 
The honourable member for Herbert mentioned the problems of an Army establishment in his electorate. I echo his words and support them. There is a large Army establishment in the electorate which I represent. A similar position exists there as far as Army housing is concerned. It is to be hoped that this matter will be taken into consideration in the future by the appropriate authorities. I conclude by saying that I am sure that this unprecedented restriction upon the selling of housing commission homes will upset and alienate a lot of the Australians who believed that the Australian Labor Party would encourage people to own their own homes, with the resultant care and maintenance which would be given to these homes by the people who have invested their money in Hum. In spite of the imposition of certain restrictions on the expenditure cf this large amount of money  -  S327.95m - it is recognised by the Australian Country Party and the other Opposition party that the passage of this Bill is essential to the housing commissions in the States. Therefore the Bill has the support of the Country Party and the other Opposition party, but with the reservations I have expressed. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the national health scheme. It is basically the same question that I last asked him and to which he spoke over 500 words in not answering. In the Department of Health pamphlet The Plain Facts', which many people call 'The Half Truths', the question is asked: How will the new scheme be financed?' The answers given are: Firstly, by 1.35 per cent of taxable income; secondly, a Government grant; and thirdly, a levy on workers' compensation and third party motor vehicle insurance. The Prime Minister did not reveal the second and third means in his policy speech. He referred only to 1.35 per cent of taxable  income. I ask the Minister how much he estimates the amount of the government grant will be for 1974-7S. How much does he estimate will be derived from the levies to which I have referred? 
We have just listened to a speech from the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  I think it was. He does not make many speeches in the House. He is known usually for making interjections.  His  speech today was about the longest interjection that I have ever heard him make in this House. He has raised matters on which he said I might comment. 
He is at it again,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  He has resumed his seat, but he is commencing his usual practice of interjecting and making wild and unfounded statements. That is his usual occupation. I will not waste my time going into the details of the project he mentioned, which is known as John McEwen House. However, I will make two or three comments on it. 
Firstly, John McEwen House was erected after a great deal of bard work had been done by thousands of Australian people who had tremendous admiration for the dedication and ability of  Sir John  McEwen here in the national Parliament. If the honourable member for Bowman achieves one-quarter of the work that  Sir John  McEwen carried out for this Parliament and for Australia, I will be very surprised. I was tempted to say that I would give a garden party for the wharf labourers if the honourable member for Bowman ever reached anywhere near the standard of achievement of  Sir John  McEwen who was such a wonderful statesman and a wonderful member of this Parliament. 
In answer to the Minister who has just asked whether I was the fund raiser, I have just said that John McEwen House was erected as a result of the hard work of thousands of Australian people from both rural and city areas alike who respected the job that  Sir John  McEwen had done for Australia. In regard to the matter of Government departments leasing buildings, that is purely a commercial enterprise. If space is available and if the Government requires that space, it is quite within the law and within the policy of both the previous Government and of this Government for a commercial arrangement to be made. That is exactly what has happened. Instead of the accommodation shortage being overcome by the actions of this Government, I say that the position will be magnified and worsened by the creation of so many new bodies, such as the 47 new commissions, 10 new government departments and a greater number of public servants. This will result in a greater demand for accommodation in the capital cities. 
It is probably true to say that housing in Australia is in the worst mess it has been in for years. There is a problem in regard to money, land, labour, materials and, of course, strikes also are a major worry. Added to all those factors is the general air of uncertainty about future policies of this Government in regard to both land and housing. The total blame for the housing problem cannot, of course, be levelled at the Government. However, there is no question that the very high level of Government spending, the lack of economic responsibility, the overall national policies of the Government and the inflationary climate that is being added to considerably by Labor's financial policies are all factors contributing strongly to the mounting problems and chaos in the housing industry. 
The Labor Government is pursuing policies which are concentrated on diverting money for the building of homes from the private sector to the public sector of the economy. The Government started this movement by increasing the bond rate, thereby forcing powerful financial institutions to raise their interest rates on debentures. This fact, plus the fact that short term unsecured notes also are offering peak rates, means that the flow of funds to building societies - which have been a considerable part of the backbone of the building industry - and to savings banks has dropped off alarmingly. Figures released in Canberra recently show that the flow of funds into building societies tumbled 43 per cent from $102m in August to only $5i8m in September. The same disappointing position existed for the savings banks in respect of their intake figures which, adjusted on a seasonal basis, dropped from $167m to $95m in about the same period. This was the situation in relation to the building societies and the savings banks before they raised their interest rates, but it is most likely that the trend will continue. The savings banks have been requested to cut back on loans to assist in an attempt to dampen down the overheated building boom. Building society spokesmen have indicated that they will probably be able to finance only about 54,000 homes this financial year compared with 78,000 last year. This, no doubt, has been brought about partly by Government domination of finance in general and interest rates in particular. 
Action on interest rates generally has put a penalty on young people who have a mortgage on their homes and are looking forward to owning their own home in the future. It seems to me that the Government has raised the interest on the bond rate and has turned around to the lending institutions and said: But you carry the can as far as interest on housing loans to young people is concerned.' But, of course, if the Labor Government achieves its policy objectives, eventually everyone will be living in a commission or government owned house or flat on leasehold land. This is a well-known socialist philosophy to which every member of the Labor Party is a committed signatory. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is one of the most dedicated of all socialists. He is one of the first in the queue to use the power of financial blackmail that is possessed by the Federal Government which is centralised here in Canberra. An example of this fact is to be found in his tactics in 'negotiating' - and I query the use of the word - the recent Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. He used financial and political blackmail - tout mainly financial blackmail - to force the States to agree to the terms that they did agree to in the long run. Mind you, they did not agree to the terms which the Minister would have liked. Reference has been made by some his colleagues during this debate to the statement the Minister made on 16 January 1973. What a famous statement that was! What a violent reaction it produced from every State govern* ment - 'Liberal, Labor and Country PartyLiberal alike. In that statement the Minister said: t also propose that the sale of new homes built by the State Housing Authority after June 30 next to 'be severely restricted, if not entirely prohibited, with sales to continue from their existing stock. 
In other words, the Minister wanted all the money involved under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement - millions of dollars - spent only on rental homes. That is, of course, socialist philosophy. Luckily that position was prevented from coming about by the State governments. The Minister laughs when I mention 'socialist philosophy'. He cannot deny that he is a socialist and that he has signed the pledge to socialise everything in Australia eventually. That is okay; that is his belief and he is entitled to it. But I do hope that the people of Australia will not fall for the trap and accept the dead hand of depressing socialism upon the Australian community. I will have a bit more to say about that later. 
As I said, we saw the principle of financial blackmail being exercised by the Minister in the negotiation of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It was a disgraceful display of high powered dictatorial financial standover tactics and against all the principles that we on this side of the House stand for. 
I listened to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  with a great deal of interest. I did not know that he was such a student of  Mr Chipp,  as he referred to him. I presume he was talking about the honourable member for Hotham. I suppose the honourable member for Hotham will speak for himself a little later in the debate. The honourable member for Lilley certainly has made a close study of what the honourable member for Hotham has said, that is, if he compiled his speech himself. I have my doubts about that. It seemed to be a carefully prepared speech and one which could bc laid at the door of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The honourable member talked about the Government's health scheme, which is losing credibility with the public as time goes by.  His  remarks were just like the pre-election speech made last year by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who misrepresented to the Australian people the position of the Australian Labor Party in regard to many fields. 
On this occasion I shall deal just with the issue of health. The Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, said: 
The Labor Government will introduce a universal health insurance scheme. It will bc administered by a single Health Fund. Contributions will bc paid according to taxable income. 
That was the only, mention by the Prime Minister, in his pre-election speech, of contributions by the Australian public. He did not mention anything about the sum of more than $400m that has to come from Consolidated Revenue and which represents another contribution by the taxpayer. He did not mention anything about the levy on workers' compensation or third party motor vehicle insurance, which again must come from the taxpayer. The Prime Minister represented the scheme as being financed by a contribution of 1.35 per cent of a person's taxable income. In this section of his policy speech he deliberately misled the people just as he has done in many other areas. I shall be dealing with his comments on repatriation within a few minutes. 
I have only 10 minutes to discuss these 3 departments. As a former Minister for Repatriation, I should like first of all to commend the departmental officers for their preparation of the estimates for the Repatriation Department. Although the estimates will not be discussed in great detail by many speakers during this debate, I can assure honourable members that I personally appreciate the amount of work that has gone into the preparation of these estimates and I compliment the departmental officers on their work. It is appropriate that these 3 departments are being discussed in the one debate because they are fast becoming one department. Somebody mentioned the Department of Health. He referred to it as the Heath Department. It has had the '1' belted out of it. The Department of Social Security with its empire building Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  - I have referred to him in that way before - is gradually taking over the other 2 departments. The items contained in the estimates for the Repatriation Department illustrate this point. There exists a great deal of concern amongst many people who want a clear statement from the Government - I have challenged the Government on this issue time and time again in this House - about the future of the Repatriation Department. The last time I mentioned this matter, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  gave the answer that the Government had not considered it and that was not part of Labor policy. That is not an answer to the question at all. I now invite the Prime Minister or the Ministers who arc responsible for these 3 departments to make a clear statement regarding the future of the Repatriation Department. Is is or is it not to remain a separate department? Not only officers of the Department but also members of ex-servicemen's organisations and other people, including members of the Parliament, want to know about this important matter. 
One particular matter relating to the Repatriation Department to which I want to refer is the provision in the Appropriation Bill relating to a person's eligibility for medical and hospital benefits available to ex-servicemen who served in a theatre of war. I cannot see that the fact that a serviceman served in a theatre of war has anything to do with the matter, lt is very illogical to give medical and hospital treatment to people who suffer from some form of cancer - we all know there are hundreds of those- only if those persons have served in a theatre of war. There is no possible medical explanation or reasoning behind this decision. Why should a serviceman who, through no fault of his own was not posted to a theatre of war, not be entitled to these benefits? We all think of a theatre of war as being outside Australia, but in technical terms a theatre of war is an area above the parallel of latitude 14.5 degrees south as between 19 February 1942 and 13 November 1943 and it relates only to the Northern Territory. If a serviceman was in a similar latitude in Queensland he did not serve in a theatre of war, and therefore is not entitled under this legislation to medical and hospital treatment. 
To my mind this is the height of illogicality. The Government should either cancel eligibility for cancer treatment or it should broaden the legislation to include all servicemen who volunteered for service overseas. That is a point that I wanted to bring to the notice of the Government. 
There is no sound medical reason for this decision. The babble of interjection that is coming from sections of the Labor Party illustrates their interest in and appreciation of the job the ex-servicemen and ex-service women have done for this country over the years. I just bring that point to the notice of the people in the galleries and also to the radio listening public. It is a very serious matter that I am bringing before the Parliament. 
I mentioned the pre-election policy speech of the present Prime Minister and the honourable gentleman's deception of the public in relation to health. I should now like to turn to the section dealing with repatriation and ask for a clarification and an explanation of the paragraph concerned with repatriation. A year ago the Prime Minister said that, having set the special or totally and permanently incapacitated rate pension and the general rate pension, other pension rates and allowances would be adjusted proportionately. There has never been any explanation to the Parliament of what is meant by the words 'other pension rates and allowances will be adjusted proportionately'. I ask the Government to give the House and the public an explanation of exactly what is meant by those words. The Government specified what the TPI rate will be in relation to the minimum wage and it specified what the 100 per cent general rate pension will be in relation to the minimum wage; but then, it just said 'other pension rates and allowances will be adjusted proportionately'. I think the House, the people and the exservicemen and ex-service women are entitled to receive an explanation of what those last few words in the section of the Prime Minister's policy speech relating to repatriation really mean. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many assisted migrants came from Italy to Australia during each month from December 1972 to date. 
What were the figures for the corresponding period commencing December 1971. 
How many of these migrants were (a) single and  (b) people  with no relatives in Australia. &lt;4) In respect of those with relatives in Australia what was the nature of the relationship. &lt;5) From what areas, and in what numbers, did the migrants come. 
In what areas, and in what numbers, were the sponsoring families located. 
In what areas, and in what numbers, did these migrants proceed to reside in Australia. 
How many of them were skilled people, and what were the categories of those skills. 
How many of them were unskilled. 
Did the Minister for Social Security tell the Prime Minister before the Prime Minister's election speech that about $500m would be needed from Consolidated Revenue to finance the health scheme in its first year of operation? If he did not, why did he not? If he did, in view of his constant complaint about misrepresentation can he explain, and has he protested to the Prime Minister about, the blatant misrepresentation practised in that pre-election speech as illustrated by the fact that there was no mention whatsoever of this huge additional sum of money amounting to an average of about $80 per taxpayer which will come indirectly from that taxpayer and which will be additional to the 1.35 per cent of his taxable income? 
I commence by endorsing the commendatory remarks that were made by my colleague, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  about the efforts of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  particularly his attitude in the extremely complex negotiations that he and his staff, the staff of the Victorian and New South Wales Government departments and the respective Ministers had leading to the introduction of this legislation. But I do not agree with the Minister's philosophies or the means that will be adopted to achieve the objective of having 300,000 people in the Albury-Wodonga area by the year 2000. I also endorse the comments of the honourable member for Gwydir in his criticism of the Government's actions towards rural people generally in this year's Budget. Worse is to come. The Budget provisions seem to be the very antithesis of what we are discussing here today in the way of encouraging decentralisation. I also emphasise that this legislation and the future activities of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation must place emphasis on people and their rights. The changes will affect a lot of people. 
I support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the inquiries he made of the Minister. I am sure the Minister will give us some answers to those inquiries. Mention has been made by several people about the official policy of the various parties. One or two speakers implied that the Country Party did not have a policy on decentralisation. So to put it on the record I quote from the policy of the Australian Country Party. It states under the heading 'Decentralisation': 
The balancing of the growth and development of Australia is basic to the policies of the Australian Country Party. Australia is already one of the most urbanised nations, with the majority of people living in only nine cities on the edge of the continent. Correlated with the need to check the drift of population from the country to the city are the increasingly serious financial and social problems associated with centralisation. It is the belief of the Australian Country Party that decentralisation of industry as an aid to correcting the rapidly increasing imbalance of population distribution is of vital importance to Australia. 
I place that current Country Party policy on decentralisation on the record. I welcome the introduction of these Bills into the Parliament. I accept the concept of them and the principles involved, but there are some aspects that concern not only me but also people whom I have the honour and responsibility to represent in this Parliament. As most honourable members will know, the Wodonga section of the AlburyWodonga growth complex is in the electorate of Indi, which I represent. I will be putting forward to the House some of the areas of concern that my constituents have expressed to me. 
The objective of the Biills is to give legislative meaning and authority to the historic agreement which was signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria in Wodonga in the electorate of Indi on 23 October. I had the privilege of being present at the signing. It must be emphasised that for this agreement to work as it is intended to work the 2 State government Acts are crucial in the overall picture. Proper debate on the ramifications of the complex legislation before the House is not really possible without the availability of the other 2 sets of corresponding Bills which must be passed respectively by the Parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria. The Victorian Bills are available, but have become available only in the last few days. To me it is regrettable that the Government has again rushed legislation into the House before adequate time has really been given for consideration. This set of Bills involves many complex issues, and it is most unsatisfactory to many people - many of my constituents and people both inside and outside the House - that there has been insufficient time to assess all the aspects and effects of this legislation. 
The Minister asks me to give him an example. I referred to people outside the House. The legislation arrived on the table of the House only last week. 
I will be spelling out some of the worries that people have. They might have other worries that they would bring to the fore if they had a chance to study the legislation. I said that I would be passing on some of the concern of my constituents, and these are thoughts that have been expressed to me. As I mention, the 2 sets of State government Bills should be available to be read in conjunction with these Bills so as to ensure that the terms and conditions of the agreement signed on 23 October between the States and the Commonwealth have been fully included. Unfortunately these sets of Bills are not available. I am well aware of the necessity to get things moving and to keep things moving in the AlburyWodonga area, but more time should have been allowed. I am aware of all the difficulties in this matter, but I repeat that more time should have been allowed to give citizens and their advisers the opportunity to study the legislation from both the State and Federal Parliaments. As I understand it, the New South Wales legislation is not before the Parliament as yet. There is a tremendous feeling of frustration and stagnation and also feelings of uneasy concern affecting many people in the cities of Albury and Wodonga at the moment. 
The Albury-Wodonga area, of course, is a natural for a growth complex. Many people naturally are associating themselves with the concept or with having thought of the concept of developing Albury-Wodonga in a population and economic sense in order to diminish the growth of Melbourne and Sydney. There are many people who fought over a long period of time to gain more facilities in the AlburyWodonga area. My thoughts turn to the late  Dr Merrylees,  to whom I would like to pay a brief tribute, because he was so energetic and enthusiastic in his advocacy of the development of the regions of southern New South Wales, northern Victoria and northeastern Victoria. I am sure that his drive and determination played a big part in keeping the Albury-Wodonga area in the forefront of government thinking. He would be a happy man if he were alive today. 
I personally was interested to find a news release of my own which was published in the Albury based 'Border Morning Mail' newspaper dated 3 August 1966, which is more than 7 years ago. The news release quoted me as saying that I was urging continuing pressure to gain support from the Federal Government for the establishment of a university in the Albury-Wodonga area. I wrote to the Australian Universities Commission in June 1966, suggesting that it should initiate discussions on the possibility of the New South Wales and Victorian State governments combining to ret up a joint university, thus adopting the principle of co-operation between Federal and State governments. In that article I suggested that the Secretary of the Universities Commission should visit the area with a view to establishing the suitability of the Albury-Wodonga area as a site for a joint university. I was quite interested to see that news release of mine, which is more than 7 years old. 
In the whole structure of the AlburyWodonga complex, its administration and the activities up to date, the Allbury-Wodonga Interim Consultative Committee which was appointed has, I think, done a first-class job. This Committee basically comprises citizens of the area assisted by senior Commonwealth and State public servants. They have been performing their duties in a very energetic and conscientious manner. It has been quite obvious to me that they have been holding many meetings and consulting many organisations and individuals about matters which are of vital importance in the overall development of the Albury-Wodonga area. The wide scope of the activities and interests of the Consultative Committee is illustrated by some decisions that the Committee made at a recent meeting. It is appropriate, I think, that I place them on the record of this Parliament to illustrate the efforts of this Committee. 
The Committee stated that it wanted a study made of the effects of the growth centre on present and future residents.  Dr Henry  Nowik who has been a stalwart member of and tower of strength on this Committee, told a committee meeting that there would be tremendous changes in the region, and of course that is obvious. The Committee decided to press the urgent need for an integrated approach to the planning of health and welfare services in Albury-Wodonga; to bring to the notice of the Ministerial Council the acute shortage of social welfare workers in the area, particularly those experienced in youth work; to ask the Cities Commission for a study of the effect of the growth centre on the ecology; to press for the regular release of planning information so that Albury-Wodonga businessmen can plan for the future; and to ask that the Development Corporation consider the need for infant and child care facilities in commercial development and community facilities, as well as providing for the disabled. That illustrates the good work that the Consultative Committee is doing. 
Thank you. Great concern has been expressed by representatives of resident organisations in the area about certain matters connected with the Albury-Wodonga complex. I received a telegram from Councillor Macaulay - who is on the Wodonga City Council - on behalf of the Albury-Wodonga Growth Centre Landholders Association. The letter was not sent on behalf of the Wodonga City Council. I also have a telegram from the secretary of that Association. The telegram says that the Association strongly opposes the Development Bill; that land tenure is still undecided; that the future role of local government is obscure; and that there is no time limit on the operations. Both telegrams request that the whole of the legislation be referred to an appropriate Senate committee. 
I am sure the House would agree that it is completely understandable that many long established land owners in the area are sitting on the edge of their chairs, waiting for the announcement of the areas that are to be acquired. Many of these people are members of families who have lived in the district for a long time. Many of them have given long and distinguished service to the district through many community organisations. Now they are experiencing a period of great uncertainty, with a possibility of being told that their property and their occupations will be taken from them. In fact, it is a certainty that this will happen to quite a few people. Many of the people to whom I refer are farmers by nature, by tradition and by actual experience. Most of them would know no other occupation. On the matter of compensation, due regard should be paid not only to the value of the land but also to the fact that these people have not had the benefit of long service leave schemes and government supported or industry supported superannuation schemes that will provide for their retirement. They have not had paid annual holidays, sick leave and so on. It is very important that these people have their rights protected by both Federal and State legislation. Every avenue must be taken to ensure that the principle of just compensation is made mandatory in regard to acquisition. 
Other areas of concern have been expressed to me. I have been asked whether this move is decentralisation or centralisation. Other people have said: 'Why do we have to have this Development Corporation at all? We already have certain local government and government machinery within this area and we are going along pretty well at the moment. Progress in the Albury-Wodonga area has been very good without the Development Corporation'. Migrants are mentioned specifically in the Bill. They want to know the reason for that. People are concerned that the principle of land tenure is still not clear. I favour the freehold system. I know that the Victorian State Government also favours the freehold system. I realise that the Government is waiting to see the recommendations of the ElseMitchell Committee before making a decision. But the Premiers should be commended on their stand, with the Commonwealth at the last moment, of insisting that another look be taken at the principle of land tenure. They are some of the things about which the people in the Albury-Wodonga area are concerned, and quite rightly so. 
I now want to refer to a part of the policy speech which has not yet been carried out. I am not saying that an undertaking was given to carry this out in the first year. But everyone will be watching very closely to see that the Government maintains its undertaking in regard to the equation between the costs of telephone calls in the AlburyWodonga area and in other areas. The Government said: 
In our first term of office, we will concentrate our own initiative and endeavours on 2 areas - AlburyWodonga and Townsville. 
The Government said that the cost of telephone calls and telephone rentals in these new growth centres will be the same as the cost of those services in the capital cities. The puzzling factor to me, which indicates a little inconsistency, misunderstanding and disagreement on the part of the Government, is the Prime Minister's statement about the Dart mouth Dam, which of course will be vital to the future of Albury,Wodonga. We had the extraordinary spectacle of the Prime Minister a couple of months ago writing to the Premiers of the 3 States concerned - South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria - and suggesting that the expenditure on Dartmouth Dam should be deferred or cut down. He got short shrift, of course, from the Premiers of those 3 States. It seems contrary to the whole philosophy of encouraging decentralisation, which, of course, is the basis of this Bill, that the Prime Minister of Australia should advocate the deferral of expenditure of money on the great Dartmouth Dam project. Of course this dam will be further above AlburyWodonga than the Hume Weir. The Prime Minister's action was extraordinary. 
I should like to mention other matters but unfortuantely my time has almost run out. Therefore, I am not able to mention all the aspects to which I wanted to refer. They include a statement by  Senator Geitzelt  on 28 November 1972, that the people of Albury-Wodonga would think Father Christmas had arrived when the Labor Government got into power. The Government has loaned the people only $9m, which they will have to repay with interest. The ultimate practical success of this project will call for the highest level of goodwill and co-operation between the Federal and State Ministers, departmental officers, local government and local residents. I wish the whole project well. Any individual or organisation that seeks my assistance and co-operation in any sphere connected with the development of this Albury-Wodonga project will certainly receive my wholehearted support. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Australian Country Party joins with the Liberal Party in opposing the Bills before the House and supporting the amendment so capably moved by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  As I have only 20 minutes in which to speak, I will not be able to cover all the ramifications of this Bill, but my colleagues from both the Liberal Party and the Country Party will comment in more detail on many points as the debate proceeds. The Bills before the House are two of a number of Bills that are necessary to implement the Australian Labor Party's health scheme. At least four more such Bills are to come before the House. It is poor government, showing a lack of regard for Parliament, that they are being introduced piecemeal, and in a vague and ill-defined form at that. 
The health scheme proposed by the Labor Party is a socialist political philosophy translated into a health scheme. It is quite clear that these Bills will start to implement the following statement, which was made about a year ago by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden): 
The Labor Party is a socialist party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is for the establishment of public enterprise. 
Does anyone want it clearer than that? The provisions of the scheme and the obvious future intentions of the Government are completely in line with the socialist philosophy. The aim of this Government is ultimately to control from Canberra, under one huge central administration, all the hospital finance, all the hospital beds and all the doctors throughout Australia - and, of course, the taxing powers to finance this scheme. I do not consider that such an aim is in the best interests of the people as a whole. If I did think it was in their best interests, I would advocate support for the proposals. The proposals are being described as an insurance scheme. However, they are not an insurance scheme at all; they are a taxation scheme. 
The 2 Bills before the Parliament are not detailed enough in vital areas, particularly in Part HI and Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Bill. Some of the major areas lacking in detail are, firstly, the lack of definite guidelines for negotiation of agreements with the State governments in relation to accommodation and finance; secondly, the lack of precise definition of the functions of the Health Insurance Commission; and, thirdly, the lack of definition of doctors' and patients' rights and entitlements. The overwhelming evidence available to me and to the Country Party indicates that a wide range of organisations and individual people oppose the health scheme put forward by the Government. In fact, there is relatively little evidence of any organisational or individual support for the scheme, particularly amongst people who have studied it. These include people who are outstanding in the medical and economic fields. The medical people have indicated that thehospital proposals are vague and unrealistic; that they will not maintain the high standard of health care that presently is available in the majority of hospitals, public and private, around Australia. 
The economists say that the Government has understated the total cost in the first year and also that the scheme will cost the taxpayers, collectively and individually, more than the existing scheme. It is regrettable that the Minister for Social Security constantly has attempted to refute criticisms of his proposals, whether medical or statistical, by resorting to personalities and misrepresentation. Regrettably, he has conducted a lengthy and consistent campaign of insult and denigration towards organisations and individuals, many of whom could not answer back. Probably, his most extraordinary outburst was his insinuations against Professor Pollard - a most distinguished and highly academically qualified Australian. The Minister for Social Security also has misled the House in many of his answers to questions and/ or has refused to give background statistical criteria to members of this House in order that those criteria could be compared by all concerned with estimates of the costs and ramifications of the health scheme as calculated by independent economists. 
The list of people and organisations completely opposed to the whole concept of Labor's scheme is long and impressive. It comprises State governments, a wide range of medical organisations and highly qualified members of the medical profession, the hospital and medical voluntary insurance funds, the National Working Party of Catholic Hospitals, the private and community hospitals, the private nursing homes, nurses, organisations representing country medical staffs, the boards of management of many public hospitals and many other organisations, including the Freemasons Hospital, Labor's scheme will destroy the existing scheme which is recognised generally as one of the best and most efficient in the world. It will lower the standards of health care for the majority of Australian families. It will increase the total cost of health care for the majority of taxpayers. It will reduce freedom of choice and the availability of doctors, particularly in the hospital area. It will increase dramatically the cost of health care in Australia to the Government - that is, the taxpayers - particularly as the scheme progresses. 
The Minister has refused to give any cost estimates beyond the first year of operation. An independent estimate of the cost structure of the proposals shows that the Government has underestimated the cost of the scheme in the first full year by a very large amount and that the total cost of the scheme in that full year will be $3 82m more than if the present scheme is continued. 
It will cost $382m more than if the present scheme is continued. This estimate gives the lie to the Minister's statement in the White Paper that the cost of Labor's scheme will be approximately the same as would have been the case under the existing program. After 3 years the Labor program will be costing - this is an independent estimate - up to $2,500m a year or about $800m a year more than the present scheme. 
Further disastrous disadvantages of Labor's scheme will be that it will jeopardise the future of religious, private and country hospitals. It will result in the over-use of the services of doctors' and hospitals. The Minister has misled the House by constantly stating in his answers that the House would be in a position to debate the ramifications of the whole proposal when the legislation was before the House. However, the true situation is that he is bringing the Bills which are necessary to put the whole scheme into practice into the House in a piecemeal way. The position now is that the Bills relating to the levy on taxable incomes, the levy on workers' compensation and third party insurance, the Bills setting out the terms and conditions for the voluntary health insurance funds and the Bill relating to privacy and confidentiality of information are not available to the House at all. The Parliament and the public are therefore in no position to assess the full effect of the overall scheme, but enough data is available to show that it just does not compare with our present excellent health program. 
There is a strong body of opinion, and it is shared by members of the Country Party and the Liberal Party, that it would be far easier and more practical to continue to make progressive improvements to the present scheme in which there is a co-operative partnership between the Federal and State governments' voluntary insurance, doctors and the Australian citizen. The main areas which could be considered for change in the present excellent scheme are: The establishment of a standing full time committee to regularly review and fix fees for the 4000-plus medical procedures and services for benefit purposes; the upgrading of services to the pensioners; increased hospital finance; alterations to the subsidised health benefit scheme and an improved method of enrolment of eligible people - although it is maintained by many knowledgeable people that virtually no person in Australia is denied medical and hospital treatment no matter what his financial position may be and no matter whether he is insured or not. I personally have had hardly a complaint about the existing health scheme in the IS years I have been a member of this Parliament, and I know my colleagues in the Country Party have had a similar experience. The present scheme is good. There is absolutely no need to destroy the whole structure. 
Other areas which need to be reviewed are some para-medical services. I have questioned many people, people in the category of the man in the street, about Labor's proposals and the existing scheme. Their reactions are in line with the 1973 gallup poll which showed that 5 out of 6 States strongly opposed Labor's scheme. In Western Australia 29 per cent supported the scheme. In South Australia the figure was 35 per cent, in Queensland 39 per cent, in New South Wales 41 per cent and in Tasmania 42 per cent. The State in favour Victoria, had 54 per cent in favour of the scheme. So much for the mandate that the Labor Government says it has to bring in this health scheme. 
I turn now to country areas. The overall picture for country hospitals if this scheme is introduced is frightening and depressing. I illustrate why by summarising some of the comments conveyed to me by people engaged and experienced in the country hospital field. They indicate that the country people should not have a bar of this scheme. I speak with particular reference to Victoria; members from other States will deal with their States of course as conditions differ from State to State. It is apparent from the Deeble-Scotton report that there is a great deal of ignorance of the very large amount of good work done in country hospitals by the ordinary general practitioner, without specialist assistance and intervention. The White Paper perpetuates a situation that all medical thinking is trying to change in the interests of better patient care, and in country hospitals the new scheme will impose a bad new system which has not arisen to date. Specialist help is already readily available in most Victorian country areas when it is needed. 
In the White Paper lip service is paid to the ideal of continuing patient care or freedom of choice in paragraphs 4.19 and 4.22 by the implication that patients will be able to have continuity of attendance by their own doctor, that is, freedom of choice. But the last sentence of paragraph 4.22 shows that patients will have no guarantee whatsoever of freedom of choice because the final decision on which doctor can practice in a hospital and what he does in that hospital rests with the hospital authorities. Therefore there is absolutely no guarantee whatsoever that a patient, including a lady having a baby - the White Paper mentions that specifically in paragraph 4.22 - will have any chance of having continuity of care from his or her own doctor. There is no guarantee at all. Funding of hospitals is planned to be a joint 50-50 CommonwealthState responsibility, but with the Commonwealth in practice eventually exercising overall control because of the financial set-up. The extra cost to country hospitals will be astronomical. The benefits to which a salaried employee is entitled - and the basis will be salaried or sessional, but salaried in particular - are well known. They are regular hours of employment, payment for overtime, extra loading for nights and week ends, and payment while on annual leave of 6 weeks a year. The list is virtually endless. There are many other factors. 
Further, it has been estimated that to replace one specialist surgeon who is on call all the time on fee for service in the country areas and to provide the same cover under a salaried scheme 3 or 4 surgeons will be needed to be employed at the hospital, for example the Wangaratta Base Hospital, to cover all the items listed and to provide a 7 day a week 24-hour service. The cost to the country hospitals in that position is frightening and the staff position will be chaotic. In country areas it is foreseen to be impossible to provide sufficient skilled staff to provide a 24-hour 7 days a week service plus some fair method of remuneration for surgeons and physicians who are on call for emergency cases. In fact, the effect of the Labor Party's scheme being implemented will be to create a tremendous shortage of staff in every area of medical care. The Deeble-Scotton report and the White Paper have given no consideration to that matter at all. 
I will talk now of freedom of choice in more detail. The basic assumption in the foreword of the White Paper which needs testing is the statement: 
The freedom of people to choose the type of hospital care they want and their right to the ready availability of medical services are fundamental principles of Government policy. 
Where is this spelt out in detail in the Bills? Nowhere; there is not a sign of it. From reading this and other sections of the White Paper it would seem that the only freedom of choice with respect to hospital treatment is a choice between treatment as a public ward patient or as a private ward patient. 
The main thrust of the Government's policy is towards hospital patients being treated by practitioners employed on a sessional, salaried or contract basis. Practitioners of course charging fees for service have no guarantee, even in treating private patients, of access to public hospitals. The most serious omissions from the Health Insurance Bill 1973 - which is one of the Bills under discussion - are guarantees of patient choice of medical practitioners, the type of accommodation with respect to treatment as hospital patients and the omission of any such guarantee of choice of medical practitioner from the Heads of Agreement in proposed schedule 2. 
The Minister says that his scheme will be cheaper for 3 out of 4 families and 7 out of 10 single people. I question this. I do not think it will be cheaper for any single people. 
On the figures supplied to me as at IS August 1973, the estimated cost of health insurance to a man on $70 a week is 62c a week; under the new scheme it will be 88c a week. It costs a man earning $120 a week 52c a week as at 15 August 1973 and under the new scheme his cost is estimated at $151 - 3 times the present cost. This is a single person. So where does the Government get the idea that its scheme will be cheaper for 7 out of 10 single people? People also lose the right to claim the health insurance costs as a tax deduction. Many Commonwealth car drivers tor example, will be worse off. Such a driver now pays $133 for private ward accommodation for himself and family. He earns $8,000 a year taxable income. With a levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable income he will pay $108 a year for public ward accommodation - only $25 less than for a private ward. He will have to pay an estimated extra $130 a year to have the private ward entitlement that he has now, so he will be $105 a year worse off. In addition he will lose the tax deduction which is probably worth $30, so a Commonwealth driver here in Canberra could be $135 a year worse off, and this is only in the first year. 
Take a man on $11,000 taxable income, for example, a married journalist. He now pays $133 a year for a private ward. With the 1.35 per cent levy he will be paying $150 a year for a public ward, so he is $17 worse off straight away and only has entitlement to public ward accommodation. Then he will lose the tax deductibility on the $150, that is, $75. So he is $92 worse off. Add to this the $130 it is estimated he has to pay to get back his private ward right and he will be $222 a year worse off. If his wife is working they will be paying a hell of a lot more. So how can the Labor Government maintain that the average man will be better off? I suggest that it is misleading the people. 
I raise another matter about costs. Previously a man has been able to have an operation and all the associated procedures at a cost of no more than $5. Two lines in the second reading speech altered this altogether. Each of the 6 procedures could now cost $5. 
Is .this scheme going to cost the average person less? Of course it is not. No wonder people are saying that Hayden is a health hazard. In view of the costs I have quoted, let the Minister do what he has refused to do to date and make available to the House the statistics which show that his scheme will be cheaper for 3 out of 4 families and 7 out of 10 single people. To  Mr and Mrs Average  Australian I say: You have a very good national health scheme at the moment. It is not worth destroying and replacing it with a theoretical scheme which will be of far greater cost to us all, reduce our freedom of choice and put us all under the medical control of a socialist government. 
The Australian Country Party supports the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. But I wish to say at the outset that the Government has shown its contempt of the Parliament by the manner in which it is trying to force this legislation through the Parliament at short notice. I know that there is a good reason for doing so. I know that the Government wants the recipients of the benefits provided by this legislation to receive their increased payments as soon as possible. But surely these Bills could have been brought into the House earlier in the session so that more time could have been given to their proper consideration and debate. Of course, we of the Opposition are becoming used to the arrogant and contemptuous attitude adopted by the Government to the House of Representatives and therefore to the people of Australia. The Government boasts about the number of Bills that are going through the 
House. It is easy to put a record score on the board when one guillotines and gags most of the Bills going through the chamber. 
The recipients of the increases provided for in the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill will, of course, welcome them. Goodness knows they need them because of the fact that inflation is running riot in this country, largely because of the actions of the Government. Some of the recipients of these benefits must have an uneasy feeling about the general inflationary effect of the reckless pumping by the Government of more and more money into the economy with extravagant abandon. Mention has been made from time to time of preelection promises. I want to refer to two of the pre-election promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The first one relates to the fact that prior to today the special or TPI pension has not kept pace with and has not been equivalent to the minimum wage. It is today. The TPI pension will be equivalent to the minimum wage, but the minimum wage we are talking about in this respect is what has been accepted as the minimum wage for nearly a year. So the Government has not lived up to its promise in this respect. I will deal with that a bit more fully in a few minutes. An excuse was given for this in an answer given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  who is sitting at the table, to a question I asked of him in May 1973, but it does not bold water because it contradicts what the Prime Minister said in his policy speech. I asked the  Deputy  Prime Minister on that occasion about the special rate pension not being made equal to the minimum wage. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that other factors had to be taken into consideration and that the Government could not put up the minimum wage straight away. He said that no one would expect an immediate decision to be taken.  His  answer appears in the Hansard record of May 1973. He said: 
Surely no one would expect that this ought to be an immediate decision, but naturally since it is a policy matter it is now under consideration by the Minister for Repatriation. Again, in line with other decisions relating to social security and repatriation benefits generally, this will be part of budgetary decisions . . . 
That is what the Deputy Prime Minister told me in May 1973. In a speech in 1972, prior to his election to office, the Prime Minister said that the basic pension rate will no longer be tied to the financial and political considerations of the Budget. Therefore the Prime 
Minister has given an undertaking that it will not be necessary to wait until a Budget is brought down in order to adjust pensions. The other matter to which I wish to refer in relation to the comments of the Prime Minister prior to the election is his specific reference to repatriation. He said: 
The basic compensation payments under the Repatriation Act will be given a fixed relationship with the Commonwealth minimum wage so that the special (TPI) rate equals the minimum wage. . . . 
It has not equalled the minimum wage. It will after today. But for how long will it equal the minimum wage? He goes on to say:  and the general (100 per cent) rate pension equals SO per cent of the minimum wage- 
It has not reached that level yet. Then comes the sentence that I have been asking continually to be clarified and amplified in a statement by the Government. The Prime Minister said:  and other pension rates and allowances are adjusted proportionately. 
What does that sentence mean? I again ask the Deputy Prime Minister, who has taken a great interest in repatriation matters over a number of years, whether the Government will make an explanation in a statement to members of the House as to what the Prime Minister meant when he said:  and other pension rates and allowances are adjusted proportionately. 
That is an extremely vague statement. Whilst the Country Party supports the overall provisions of the Bill, there is still need for clarification and amplification of the relevant words in the Labor Party's policy speech. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to rectify this situation. The Minister says that the TPI pension will again be equal to the minimum wage. I query the word 'again'. I want to know for how long it will be equal to the minimum wage. It is only being raised to this level now on the eve of a decision being announced in the national wage case, which is being heard at the moment by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. There is no doubt that the minimum wage will have to rise because of the galloping inflation caused to a large degree by the financial, social and industrial policies of this Government. The TPI pension will fall behind again unless the Government acts to keep to its word in the preelection speech. The 20,000-odd TPI pensioners will be 12 months behind again, probably by this time next year. 
It will happen next week; that is quite right. But if the Government runs true to form, there will not be any adjustment to bring pensions up to the minimum wage until this time next year. The Prime Minister, in his pre-election speech, definitely implied to the 20,000 or more TPI pensioners that if the Labor Party was elected the pension would be immediately raised to the minimum wage and kept at that level. However, this promise, like so many others, has not been kept. The TPI pensioners have been underpaid by about $12m over the last 10 months because of this Government's failure to honour its promise. Further, a decision on an increase in the national wage is pending. I ask the Government to give an assurance that it will adhere to its pre-election undertaking to meet its obligations and immediately adjust the TPI pension to the new minimum wage. The Minister tries to give the impression that Labor is keeping its promise, but deep in his heart, and being the type of person he is and being interested in ex-servicemen, he knows that Labor has not kept its promise to TPI pensioners in regard to the minimum wage. 
The general rate pension is in a similar position. The Prime Minister said that Labor would raise the general rate to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. What has been the Labor Party's performance? TPI pensioners will still be $8 a week short when this payment goes up to $22 a week. Of course a lot of the pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range will not receive any increase and have not had any increase for a year. The Government is still $8 a week or about $32m a year short of paying pensioners 50 per cent of the minimum wage as it stands at the moment. If the request from the trade union movement is met, the minimum wage could move to $70. Then the general rate of 50 per cent of that wage will be $35 a week, so the Government will be $13 a week or $52m a year short. Add the anticipated TPI pension shortfall and the general rate pension shortfall and the Government will be $62m short of its promises. 
There is no more deserving section of the community than war widows. They are the women whose husbands gave their lives in the defence of their country. I speak in the broader sense. We all know that certain women have become war widows at varying times for various causes, but it is my opinion that both the Government of which I was a member and the present Government have not treated war widows generously enough. They should have been treated more generously over the years by many governments. I was happy to be the Minister responsible for introducing the special arrangements for chronically ill war widows, who can now receive treatment, and attention for their chronic illness for the rest of their life for what they consider and I consider to be a very reasonable sum. I hope and I am sure that the present Government will carry on those arrangements relating to chronically ill war widows. Nevertheless, the war widows should be concerned and should watch closely the movements of the Labor Party in relation to their pension. I note a proposal - I do not know whether it was a resolution - made by a section of the Labor Government at the ALP Federal Conference that the Government should extend to civilian widows the same pension rates as those given to war widows. I hope that members of the Labor Party and all members of this House will resist any such move at any time in the future. 
The members of the war widows community should enjoy the respect and admiration of this community until no more are left. I register the interjection from the Deputy Prime Minister. I was saying that this matter was proposed and considered at the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference. Many people are concerned about the future of the Repatriation Department. No definite statement has been made by the Government yet giving a guarantee that the Repatriation Department will remain as a separate entity while this Government is in office. In the second reading speech there was no mention of it. The Deputy Prime Minister, referring to this matter, said: 
Contrary to continuing and unfounded rumours, the Bill confirms the Government's continuing and vital interest in the welfare of those who have served their country. 
That does not give the Repatriation Department or the ex-servicemen and women of this country any guarantee that the Repatriation Department will continue as a separate entity. Many moves have already been made by this Government to take the Repatriation Department more and more into the social security field. The Government has opened the military hospitals to the civilian population. It has granted former national servicemen war service homes. The Government has said there will be an automatic acceptance of cancer victims for treatment in Repatriation hospitals. I will deal with that matter very briefly in a few minutes. The Government has opened the artificial limb centres to all civilians at no cost. These are all moves towards putting the Repatriation Department more and more into the social security field. The fact that the Government is opening military hospitals to civilians is, of course, in line with its desire to control all the hospitals throughout this country. Why would it not do this? The number one objective of the Australian Labor Party is to achieve the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange - in other words, government ownership of industry, production, distribution and exchange or, in simpler terms, of everybody and everything. That is stated as the number one objective in the official platform of the Australian Labor Party. 
In 1973 the Deputy Prime Minister gave another undertaking, that the determining authorities in repatriation matters would give reasons for their decisions. I understand that a trial is still being conducted, but surely the time must be coming when a sufficient trial has been given in order to reach a definite decision on the question. We will look forward with great interest to the decision that is reached on whether determining authorities in repatriation matters will give reasons for their decisions. 
In the last Budget the Government introduced the proposal to automatically accept cancer for treatment purposes - not for pension purposes - for those who had served overseas. What a ridiculous anomaly. There are about 675,000 surviving ex-servicemen from the Second World War and practically every one of them volunteered to go overseas. Many of them did not go overseas through factors beyond their control. But the Government brings in- 
I can understand the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He has never had any interest in the ex-servicemen of this country, and he has just confirmed that by taking that point of order. It is all right to automatically accept cancer for treatment purposes in the social services field, but I do not think that it fits in with the principle of repatriation. But the Government has decided to adopt the proposal. Surely a line should not be drawn between someone who was sent overseas to Canada or Rhodesia or some other country and someone who served on the Atherton Tablelands or in Darwin or somewhere like that. Why should there be a differential? There is no medical reason for it. I again register my protest. 
There is no difference at all. 
 Mr Speaker,  I do not know who it was, either, but whoever said that I was a hypocrite is not telling the truth. Unfortunately, time is running out. As I have said, the Government is rushing these Bills through the House, and we are concerned that they were not introduced earlier. But the increases in pensions for which the Bills provide will be welcomed by the recipients - they certainly need them. However, many responsible people realise that the Government is hooked on the promises that it made to repatriation beneficiaries. The Government is caught between its irrational and irresponsible promises and the expenditure in which it is involved now and in which it will be involved in the future. The increases come on top of greatly increasing expenditure in the Repatriation Department. 1 say to the  Deputy  Prime Minister: You made the promises, but you are not keeping the promises that you made. If you are men of your word you would keep the promises that the Prime Minister made on behalf of the Labor Party in his pre-election speech in 1972. Of course, if the Government keeps its promises it is adding further substantial fuel to the roaring inflation which already exists in Australia. It all boils down to the fact that the Labor Party fooled the Australian people in 1972 with a slick promotion campaign which glosses over the misleading and wildly irresponsible promises contained in the pre-election speech which was delivered by the Prime Minister. The next time when the Australian people have a chance to show what they feel they will not be fooled again. They will throw the present Government into political oblivion mainly because of its utter irresponsibility in its management of the finances of the nation. 
 Mr Speaker,  you are quite correct. 
 Yes,  Mr Speaker,  you are quite correct. It is 'Indee'. I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the No. 1 objective in the official policy of the Labor Party reads in part: 
The democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exhange . . . 
Will the Prime Minister include this very significant No. 1 objective in his next preelection campaign speech or will he continue, as other Labor leaders have done in the past, to try to conceal it from the Australian people? 
It would cost less. The scheme of the Labor Party will also require considerably more skilled professional people such as doctors, nurses and the wide range of people who are associated with health care in this country. These professions are short of numbers already. The proposals before the House will only make the position worse. 
They will lower and not increase the standard of hospital and medical care for the majority of Australians. The Bills will create a further huge centralised bureaucracy in Canberra which will be both costly and unwieldy. The Bills will destroy the freedom of choice of doctor by the individual patient. Also, they give no legal guarantees to the States, the hospitals or the patients. Further, the Bills give no legal and definite undertakings as to the source and nature of the overall financial arrangements for the conduct of the hospitals. If the scheme follows the pattern of similar scheme in other countries many people will have to wait for a long period - for weeks - to see their doctors and for up to 4 years for common operations. 
Implementation of the Australian Labor Party's health scheme, two of the Bills for which are before the House, will create great staffing difficulties in country hospitals. People who are very knowledgeable in the field estimate that it could take up to 3 surgeons to do the job that one surgeon is doing at the moment. Of course this will be amplified and multiplied in the general practitioner and other medical fields. Such a situation can mean only greatly increased costs for country hospitals. There is no legal guarantee in the Bills that any patient in any hospital will have a choice of doctor in that hospital, much less the right to have his own private doctor. Private hospitals will lose their identity, particularly in the socio-moral field. 
As many other speakers have said, the Government has no mandate whatsoever from the people to introduce these Bills. The latest gallup polls have shown that 56 per cent of the people reject the idea of Labor's health scheme. Further, this scheme has been condemned by every organisation with any medical knowledge or connection at all, except for a few isolated groups of doctors who have been either brainwashed by the Minister for Social Security or financed or assisted in some way to put out their untrue and lying propaganda. I refer to an advertisement which appeared in the 'Daily Telegraph' on 14 May - the Tuesday before the election on 18 May. It also appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun'. It starts by saying: 'Over 400 doctors support the Whitlam health scheme'. The advertisement gives their reasons. This sort of propaganda put out to the public is untruthful and lying. Of course the Minister for Social Security supports what these doctors say. He has certainly not denied it. I give him the opportunity of denying the contents of this advertisement which appeared in the newspapers on the Tuesday before the election. It starts off in a misleading way by saying: 'Poverty-stricken hospitals - serious doctor and nurse shortage - high hospital and medical costs - archaic outpatient departments.' That may be true in some cases but no one can say that it refers to all those areas in Australia. It goes on to say: 
Here are the facts about the Australian Labor Party health scheme: You keep the right to choose your own doctor. 
That is a lie. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I must ask the honourable member to withdraw the word 'lie'. It is unparliamentary. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I withdraw it in deference to your ruling and say that it is untrue. The next point is: 
Everybody, rich or poor, is fully covered for every single aspect of health care. 
That is not true. It goes on to say: 
The Australian Labor Party scheme has been costed in detail. 
What absolute rubbish! I would like the Minister to produce that costing in detail, not just details for the first year but details of what it will cost the taxpayers over the next few years. What is more, once again I challenge him, as many others have done, to reveal the details of his costing. Reputable people have challenged the costing of the scheme as presented to the Parliament and to the public by the Minister. The Minister has never replied to the estimate that has been arrived at by independent sources. 
The misleading advertisement goes on to say: 
The scheme will introduce a new era of total, family health care - with easier, quicker access to the profession. 
We have never had a scheme like this in this country, but anyone who takes the trouble to investigate access to professional health care in countries that have similar Health schemes will find that it is not the case that one has easier and quicker access to the medical profession and, by implication, to health care. As those of us who have looked into the operation of the schemes in other countries know, in many countries there are considerable delays for even the most common operations. The delay is up to 4 years in New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom and other places. 
This advertisement, which is authorised by Professor Derek Llewellyn-Jones, is a disgrace to the profession and to the people associated with it. It is impossible to prove whether the Minister for Social Security knew of the advertisement, whether he assisted in drawing it up or assisted in financing it, but it is extraordinary that the contents of the advertisement follow so closely on the statements that the Minister has made constantly over a long period during which he has taken a great deal of trouble, through the mass propaganda means at his disposal, to make untrue and misleading accusations against extremely reputable people in many organisations and professions throughout Australia. I think that the Minister ought to be ashamed of himself for some of the things that he has said about people who have made a wonderful contribution to the medical skills and care of this country. He has consistently denigrated anybody and everybody who dares to oppose his scheme, particularly those in the medical profession. 
He has also tried to discredit the present scheme in the eyes of the Australian people by unscrupulous administrative and financial means. In particular he has reduced the government percentage of contribution to the medical benefit funds from about 55 per cent to 47 per cent, which has meant that the contributor to the voluntary health insurance funds has had to be charged more. I think we have had about 3 rises in the premiums that people pay to the medical benefit funds since this Government came into office. I think there were 3 rises in 13 months. Of course the inflationary policies of the Government have contributed to these increases too. Above all, the reduced contribution by the Government in order to discredit the existing scheme has shown that the Government has no principle For the reasons I have outlined and the reasons that other speakers in the Opposition have outlined we in the Opposition maintain strong opposition to this Bill and will continue to d ' so until the bitter end. 
I want to bring to the notice of the House the serious situation that exists in the textile industry throughout Australia generally and in nonmetropolitan areas in particular, and I will make special reference to the largest city in the Indi electorate, Wangaratta, in which there are two of the largest textile mills in Australia. Certainly they are two of the largest in nonmetropolitan areas, namely, Bruck Australia Ltd and the Wangaratta Woollen Mills Ltd. For the information of the House, in the last 7 weeks 341 people have been dismissed from these 2 mills. Another 20 at least have not been replaced, making a total of 361, and I understand that at least 40 people have been asked to take their long service leave and other entitlements. In other words there is no work available for them. A total of 401 people out of a pretty stable work force of 1,330 people normally employed at these 2 mills, or over 30 per cent of the work force in these 2 great decentralised industries in the city of Wangaratta, have been put off work or have not worked in the last 7 weeks. 
As the honourable member for Gwydir has implied, further blows have been struck at country areas and country people and all those living outside the capital cities by the announcements made in the House tonight by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The situation in the textile industry in Wangaratta is not to be treated, as some honourable members see it, as a minor pocket of unemployment. There is a very serious principle involved in the causes leading to the dismissal of these people. The causes lie directly and squarely at the door of the Labor Government. It is through the actions of the Labor Government that the textile industry has insufficient demand for its products and, therefore, does not have the required demand for its work force. 
The decision made in July 1973 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - an unprecedented and remarkable decision - to cut tariffs across the board by 25 per cent was the start of the rot. The announcement was welcomed by academics and people who have never produced anything in their lives, but it was regarded as a very sinister and disastrous decision by hard headed businessmen with the responsibility in Australia of employing people and producing the wealth of this country. The predictions they made in July are coming true and worse is yet to come. That decision started the rot, but on 1 March the Government announced the abolition of import quotas on textiles, particularly in respect of knitted and woven textiles. This allowed a flood of cheap imports from low cost countries to increase. How people in this country think that factories that have to pay employees $2.50 or $3 an hour can compete with people in low cost countries overseas paying their employees 20c or 30c an hour is beyond my comprehension. The present position in Wangaratta concerns people who have their homes there, people whose children are in the middle of a school year there and people who, together with their sons and daughters, comprise a vital part of the previously progressive, stable community of Wangaratta. They form a substantial part of the service clubs, youth movements, church congregations, sporting teams and sporting clubs in the City of Wangaratta. 
Is this Government going to uproot these people as was implied in the statement by the Minister for Labor and Industry  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to the House last Thursday night? While referring to the key manpower policy initiatives under active consideration at the moment, he used these words:  ... a relocation assistance scheme to assist persons without reasonable local employment prospects to move to areas of greater employment opportunity. 
Is the Minister referring to .the people who have been dismissed from the mills and the textile industries in Wangaratta and other non-metropolitan cities or to people who have been dismissed from the meatworks? Is this Government going to uproot these people and follow some socialist philosophy by moving people about like pawns on a chessboard? Those of us who represent non-metropolitan areas in this Parliament will not stand for that and neither should the members of the Government whose various spokesmen claim to represent rural areas and non-metropolitan areas in this Parliament. 
Where are those members of the Labor Party who boast that they represented areas outside the capital cities? Has there been one word from them about the disruption and the unemployment in areas outside the capital cities of this country which is being caused by Government action? Has there been one word from any of the Labor Party members on this matter? I have not heard one. I certainly think that country people will continue to show that they realise that members of the Labor Party, particularly those in the Ministry, are incapable of representing them in this Parliament. 
That is the Government's objective. What has been done is done. Appallingly bad judgment has been shown by the Government. We have to look to the future and to the remedy. Some of the factors requiring immediate consideration include the use of the funds which the Government has said it will use in order to give people 6 months' pay for the purpose of employing those people who are willing, able and suitable to work on civic community programs for the time being in non-metropolitan areas, particularly in Wangaratta. 
Secondly, the Government must expedite the arrangements in relation to imports and should inform the people of Wangaratta and other country areas of the estimated time table so that they may know when our industries will feel the benefit of restrictive action. The Government should immediately announce its assessment or its target for the number of employees it intends retaining at Bruck Ltd and the Wangaratta Woollen Mills. The vital question to be asked is: Does the Government intend to return the number of employees at Bruck Ltd to 900 and the number of employees at Wangaratta Woollen 
Mills to 430 or does the Government intend to reduce the numbers to 70 per cent of those figures, 50 per cent or 30 per cent? 
The next point we have to ask is whether these dismissed workers will be relocated in Melbourne and Sydney under the manpower policy of the Minister for Labor and Immigration to which I referred earlier. Short term stop-gap measures are essentia], but the long term stability and progress of the city of Wangaratta is of crucial importance. I am using the city of Wangaratta as an example so all those who represent country areas know that this position also exists in many other areas outside of the capital cities of Australia. 
The main purpose of the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) is to increase the war widows' pension by $5 a week to $31 a week. There are about 50,550 widows receiving this pension, including 51 pensioned under the provisions of the Seamen's War Pension and Allowances Act and 48 receiving ex gratia payments. The total cost of the proposed increase will be $13,143,000 for a full year. Other repatriation pensioners affected are service pensioners. Their pensions will be increased by the same amount as the age or invalid pension; $5 a week for the single service pensioner and $3 a week for each member of a married couple. My colleagues in the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party and I welcome the legislation, particularly that part of it which applies the increase of $5 a week for war widows. These ladies are the women whose husbands gave their lives for their country in various conflicts in the defence not only of their country but also of freedom around the world, and widows of ex-servicemen who suffered some illness or injury, broadly speaking, which was judged or assessed as being caused by war service and from which they subsequently died. 
Because of the circumstances that produce war widows I feel it appropriate that we should always support any measure which will help these people. It has been my opinion for many years that successive governments have been extremely ungenerous, even miserly, towards war widows. Although this increase of $5 a week is a substantial sum compared with other increases that have been granted to war widows over the years it still takes the war widow's base pension to only S3 1 a week. Of course, about 97 per cent of the more than 50,000 war widows receive not only the $31 a week but also a domestic allowance of $9.50 a week, taking their weekly payment to $40.50. About 21,000 of them also receive an age pension or part of an age pension. Regarding this new increase in pensions the question could be asked: Is it in keeping with the 1972 election promise that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made when referring to the war widows pension and relating it to the fact that the totally and permanently incapacitated pension would be increased to equal the minimum wage, the general rate pension would be increased to 50 per cent of the minimum wage, other pensions would be adjusted proportionately and allowances also could be included? I, and other honourable members, have continually asked the Government to define exactly what it means by other pensions and allowances being adjusted proportionately. For 20 months the Government has consistently refused to do this. 
In the second reading speech it was stated that in the Budget other alterations would be made to repatriation pensions and allowances. I cannot help but wonder just how the Government will measure up to its promise which was made in 1972. The Government indicated that the TPI pension would be adjusted to be equivalent to the minimum wage and that the general rate pension would be 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The present Situation is that the TPI pension is about $8 behind the minimum wage- 
 It is about $8 behind the minimum wage. 
That was not what the Prime Minister meant when he said that the TPI pension would be made equivalent to the minimum wage. He did not mean that tax would be taken into consideration. So the TPI pension is $8 a week behind. As each dollar represents $lm the Government will have to find another $8m to live up to its 1972 election promise. For the general rate pension to reach 50 per cent of the minimum wage it would need to be increased to $34 a week. It now is only $22 a week which means that it is lagging by $12 a week. Every dollar a week increase in the general rate of pension means an expenditure of $4m. If the general rate pension is $12 behind the Government must find $48m more in the next Budget to honour its promise about the general rate pension. I think the Government has overstretched itself. That is the situation. Nevertheless time will tell and the test will be in the Budget. 
In the last 2 years this Government has increased the pension payout from $30 lm a year to $373m, when taking into account the provision of $13m which is included in these Bills. That represents an increase of almost $73m in 2 years. This is an enormous sum. Good luck to the people who are receiving these pensions. But the Government is still $56m behind with its 1972 election promise which was delivered by the Prime Minister. Will this be another Government promise that is not kept? I think it will be, but time will tell. 
I speak briefly now about the Government undertaking that the Repatriation Department would be kept as a separate entity. That undertaking has now been broken. The Department has become the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. There is great concern among the 800,000 surviving ex-servicemen and women, the returned soldiers' organisations and the ex-servicemen's organisations that the Repatriation Department, as it was known, is starting to disappear. Calling it the Department of Repatriation and Compensation could be the thin edge of the wedge that will eventually mean the disappearance of the Repatriation Department and those 800,000 surviving ex-servicemen and women will see the disappearance of their specialised department which devotes itself entirely to the welfare and treatment of these ex-servicemen and women. I should like to elaborate more on these points but I am told by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that the Government wants these Bills to go to the Senate tonight in order that they can be passed and, therefore, expedite the payment of the increased pensions at the first possible opportunity so I shall make my remarks brief. I should have liked to have spent more time discussing matters that relate to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
I raise now another matter I have raised before. I refer to cancer being automatically accepted for medical and hospital treatment for any ex-servicemen or women who served in a theatre of war. This is a grossly unjust decision to the many hundreds of thousands of ex-servicemen and women who volunteered for service overseas but, through no fault of their own, did not serve in a theatre of war. I have consulted medical specialists on this matter and they agree that many types of cancer - there are hundreds of types - would not be caused because a fellow or a woman served in a theatre of war. Why should there be an automatic acceptance for medical and hospital treatment because a fellow served in a theatre of war whereas hundreds of thousands of fellows who volunteered for service overseas or anywhere that the exigencies of the Service demanded are denied this automatic entitlement for treatment of cancer. I make another plea to the Government to widen the provisions regarding the treatment for cancer. 
I assure the ex-servicemen and women of Australia that we in the Country Party and the Liberal Party will continue to show a vital interest in the future welfare of the exservicemen and women of Australia. I am pleased to see in the Country Party 2 distinguished ex-servicemen - the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  - who I know will be of great benefit to the ex-servicemen and women in their advocacy on their behalf in this chamber. They will play a vital part and will look after their welfare. I support the legislation and regret that I have had to cut my remarks short because of time limitations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, relates to the textile industry and to his comments in the House last week about this industry. Will the Prime Minister give an undertaking that employment in the textile industry, particularly in Wangaratta and other decentralised cities, will be restored to the level at which it was prior to the election in May? Will the Prime Minister elaborate on arid indicate what he meant by 2 statements he made in the House last week? In the first instance, he said: 'Wangaratta ought to have a decent commuter transport service with Albury-Wodonga'.  His  second statement was, in part, that many textile companies had endeavoured to blackmail the Australian Government even to the extent of grossly misstating their own economic position. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of each overseas trip made by each Minister and his party during 1973 and 1974. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware that despite devaluation, imports of many textiles, including some from the United States of America, will still be cheaper than similar articles produced in Australia by firms many of which are decentralised and are also efficient by world standards? What action does the Minister propose to take to correct this position? In the overall textile picture, why did the Government arrange to restrict the level of imports to those of the 12 months ended 30 April 1974 when it is this level which has caused the disastrous damage to the industry? Does the Government have any firm objective as to the level of employment it is aiming for in the textile industry, which it is gradually murdering, particularly in decentralised areas? Is the Minister aware that over 50 countries around the world use a quota system to protect and develop their domestic textile and clothing industries? 
-The city of Wangaratta is a very important part of the electorate of Indi,  Mr Speaker,  and I appreciate your knowledge. Australian industry is in a mess. The textile and clothing industries are a significant part of this mess, as are such other industries as the housing, finance, footwear, chemicals, motor vehicles, electronics and glass industries. A host of other industries are bad or looking bad. But about all that the leaders of the Labor Government can say is that the system is to blame. The system has served the majority of people in this country well for many years. The people of Australia are slowly waking up to the fact that the alternative to the present system is the socialisation or government control and ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange- in other words, government ownership and control of everything and everyone. 
The Australian Labor Party, particularly during the last election campaign, was keen to quote  Sir Robert  Menzies. Let me quote from a book written by  Sir Robert  Menzies some of his views on the subject of socialisation. The words I am about to quote were written by him in October 1944. They are just as true today as they were then.  Sir Robert  Menzies wrote: 
Now, how were we to secure development? Clearly, we were to encourage thrift and saving, investment, and reward. 
The principle of such reward, sometimes sneered at as exhibiting the profit motive, is the dynamic force of social progress and is of the essence of what we call private or individual enterprise. 
In a vision of the future, therefore, I see the individual and his encouragement and recognition as the prime motive force for the building of a better world. Socialism means high costs, inefficiency, the constant intrusion of political considerations, the damping down of enterprise, the overlordship of routine. None of these elements can produce progress, and without progress security will turn out to be a delusion. 
Let the Labor Party advertise that quotation and use those words of  Sir Robert  Menzies in its next election campaign. Every Labor Party member of Parliament has signed a pledge saying that he will support and advocate socialisation. Of course, no Labor leader ever mentions that, particularly during an election campaign. Private enterprise, endeavour, individual opportunity and encouragement and incentive to work and save will die under the Labor Party's policies. 
But the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is not a leader. The textile and clothing industries are interrelated, interdependent and complex. It is not possible to detail or cover every aspect of those fiercely competitive industries in the few minutes I have at my disposal. Therefore I shall refer to those industries in a broad sense and relate my comments to the critical situation of decentralised industries throughout Australia, particularly in such towns as Wangaratta, Benalla and Shepparton in Victoria and Albury in New South Wales. Many decentralised industries in other parts of Australia are also suffering badly, such as the textile industry in Maitland, where my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  has been doing such a magnificent job in bringing its problems to the attention of the Government. 
The real trouble for the textile and clothing industries began when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the dramatic announcement in July 1973 that Australia would cut tariff protection for all its industries by 25 per cent. The employment situation in the 2 largest industries in my home city of Wangaratta is more serious than it has ever been. Brack Australia Ltd, which normally employs 906 people, now has 660 people working for it, which represents a decrease of 27 per cent. Wangaratta Woollen Mills Ltd has 288 employees at present instead of the usual 570 or 600, which represents a decrease of 54 per cent. The 2 mills now employ a total of 948 people as against the normal figure of 1,476 people, which represents a decrease of 36 per cent. 
That means that millions of dollars of the most modern machinery and many men and women are idle. They should be producing. Why are they not producing? They are idle and not producing mainly because of the Labor Government's policies and the ill-advised and badly judged actions of the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Those men are trying to pass the buck by blaming everyone else. But it is their fault and the remedy is in their hands. Brack and the Wangaratta Woollen Mills have invested millions of dollars in keeping their factories and machinery up to date with the rest of the world. One hundred and fifty-two of the 464 looms- one-third of the total- at the Brack mill are idle. I have been out to the mill and seen for myself the depressing situation there. A similar situation exists at the Wangaratta Woollen Mills. Government action must be taken to restore this efficient machinery and the men and women who operate it to full production. 
Brack is suffering from problems caused by not only the low cost countries but also fabrics imported from the United States of America. Certain materials are coming into Australia from that country. I have samples of them with me. I do not have time to detail all of them. There are four different fabrics that are being imported from America all of which are between 7c and 45c a metre cheaper than what can be produced by the most modern machinery at the Brack mills. It is the volume of production that enables the United States to be cheaper; but if we are to build Australia's we have to have jobs and build our domestic market. Australian workers and the Government cannot expect to have productivity, good wages, a goods standard of living and an expansion of educational, health, housing and other facilities, such as industrial amenities, and still have the luxury of cheap imports; in other words, the Government and the people of this country- the workers- cannot have their cake and eat it too. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister showed his lack of factual knowledge in an answer he gave to a question asked of him by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in the House on 2 August 1974. He gave an entirely false impression of the increase in employment opportunities in the textile industries of Wangaratta in 1972-73 when he said that he had discovered when he was in Wangaratta that many of the employees had not been working there for long. I have been told that he hardly spoke to anyone and that he therefore could not have had that information given to him by the employees. He implied that in the year 1972-73 a large number of extra employees had been employed by the 2 Wangaratta mills. Figures were supplied to me yesterday by the Wangaratta Woollen Mills and Brack Australia Ltd of the employment levels quarter by quarter for the last 5 years. Those figures show that there has been no noticeable change in the employment statistics from at least 1970 onwards. To save time, I seek leave to incorporate those 2 sets of figures in Hansard. 
The importance of those mills to a country town such as Wangaratta is shown in a table which I also seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Australian Government Departments were there as at (a) 30 November 1972 and (b) 30 June 1974, and what was the title of each. 
How many persons were employed (a) in each Department and (b) in total on the same dates. 
What was the salaries and wages bill (a) of each Department and (b) in total for each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
What was the percentage increase in (a) the number of Departments, (b) the number of persons employed (i) in each Department and (ii) in total and (c) the salaries and wages bill (i) of each Department and (ii) in total from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1974, and what is the estimated percentage increase in each case for the period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1976. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to the statement made by the Prime Minister yesterday regarding special assistance for country cities that have been adversely affected by Government decisions. As the statement is in rather vague and general terms, can the Minister give more specific details as to the types of viable alternative production and employment for which companies will be able to use capital grants? Will he refer particularly in his answer to the textile and motor vehicle industries in Wangaratta and Albury-Wodonga which have been severely damaged by the actions of the Labor Government? 
-This Bill which is known as the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1974 is a combined Bill which will authorise changes to the Repatriation Act, the Interim Forces Benefits Act, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act, the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act, the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act- which will be retitled the Papua New Guinea (Members of the Forces Benefits) Act in order to get rid of the word 'Native', a purpose with which the Opposition concurs- and also the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The fundamental purpose of the Bill is to increase the rates of certain pensions and allowances, to authorise persons resident in Papua New Guinea immediately before that country becomes an independent sovereign State and who continue to reside there to be deemed to be residents of Australia for the purpose of obtaining those benefits which may be provided only to residents of Australia and its Territories. 
The Bill will give legislative authority to place beyond doubt the validity of decisions made by a majority of the members of each of the determining authorities appointed under the Acts. It will give legislative authority for the appointment of the Secretary to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, when that office is created under the Public Service Act, as  chairman  of the Repatriation Commission. It will give authority to provide that special appropriation be automatically made from the consolidated revenue fund to cover the liability incurred in the payment of any pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit, the maximum rate of which is specified in the Act. It will give authority to make regulations to authorise the provision of free hospital and medical treatment to all Australian veterans who are suffering from cancer. As I mentioned earlier, it will remove from the legislation all references to the word 'native '. 
The overall results of the amendments in the combined Bill will be to take the total Repatriation Department expenditure for the year 1974-75 to $650m, in round figures, which is an increase of $272m in the past 4 years. The Opposition Liberal and Country Parties support the provisions of this Bill but regret- I speak personally here- the continuing departure from the real principles and purposes of the repatriation system as it has existed for about 60 years. I see the provisions of this legislation, as we have seen more and more since the Labor Party came into office, making the Repatriation Department more of a social services department, getting away from treating ex-servicemen and exservicewomen for disabilities and accepting pension responsibility for disabilities that were accepted by determining authorities as due to war service. However, I must admit also as a former Minister in charge of this portfolio that I have a slight feeling of envy as well as a bit of concern when I read some provisions of this legislation and consider the additional expenditure that will be contributed by taxpayers to support the Repatriation Department this year. 
I see in this legislation inflationary effects. This, of course, can only contribute to more inflation. It underlines the attitude to economic monetary policy and economic management that the Labor Government has employed in its 2 years in office compared with the attitude adopted by previous governments. No government can please everybody. Perhaps the former Government could have been a little more generous than it was in the repatriation field. Nevertheless it chose to incur some degree of unpopularity with various ex-service organisations and other people in order to try to contain the inflationary rate over the whole economy. The Repatriation 
Department expenditure cannot be viewed in isolation. It must be viewed in the total economic budgetary picture, particularly when it amounts to $650m compared with $370m in round figures 4 years ago. 
I will now turn to some of the changes that this Bill will make as announced in the second reading speech. The point I am about to refer to is not actually covered in the Bill. The use of the word 'veteran' seems to me to be a move in the right direction. There is no doubt that this will bring Australia into line with more countries and when our repatriation system is spoken of in other countries as helping 'the veterans of Australia' there will be a greater understanding of our situation. The Bill also provides free medical and hospital treatment for former prisoners of war. No one with any humane feeling would resist this proposal. I can well remember that in the first couple of weeks of holding the post of Minister for Repatriation I raised with senior officers of the Department this matter of the welfare of people who had been prisoners of war. 
-Yes, it applied to those 2 honourable gentlemen and also to every other person who was unfortunate enough to be a prisoner of war. I am awfully glad that I did not have that experience, because, from what I have read of some of the deprivations and ravages suffered by these men, they certainly were treated in an inhumane way. 
I remember very distinctly- I will not speak at length on this- saying that I thought the Department ought to have a special look at the medical condition of prisoners of war to see whether we were adequately taking care of any disabilities that they had suffered as a result of war service. I was informed by  Dr Langford  who was the Chief Medical Officer at the time that there had been a survey in early 1970 in addition to the survey that was conducted in about 1951. I was informed that all prisoners of war had been sent a questionnaire. The survey showed that as far as the medical officers could observe the prisoners of war did not exhibit any signs of unusual medical disability as a result of their incarceration in prison camps. However, I am afraid that I have always found this very hard to believe. I commend the Government for providing free medical and hospital treatment for prisoners of war. I think that this is the least that the nation could do for these people, most of whom I guess are like myself and are getting past the 50 years of age mark now. After all, the payment of this benefit to all prisoners of war will not place a tremendous burden on the community. 
I now wish to refer to the provision of free medical and hospital treatment for cancer victims. I am pleased to see that the Government has widened the eligibility for this benefit to include not just ex-servicemen and women who had served in a theatre of war but all ex-service men and women who qualify for repatriation benefits. Broadly speaking the proposal covers veterans, to use the new term, who enlisted for service anywhere at any time. I have raised this matter in the House on at least 2 previous occasions during debates on repatriation matters and I will not repeat everything that I said on those occasions. But I have said that the provision of free medical and hospital treatment just to cancer sufferers who served in a theatre of war was a grossly unjust decision as it excluded from the benefit many hundreds of thousands of exservice men and women who volunteered for service overseas but who through no fault of their own did not serve in a theatre of war. I do not disagree with the provision of medical and hospital treatment for all ex-service men and women who are suffering from cancer although it does depart from the true blue principles of the repatriation system. But as I have said, I am glad to see that the Government having first provided this benefit for people who served in a theatre of war has now made the benefit available to all exservice men and women who broadly speaking enlisted for service anywhere at any time. 
I now pass on to the validity of majority decisions made by the boards or tribunals. Previously it had not been known whether the majority decision of a determining authority prevailed because the reasons for decisions were not given. But clause 10 of the Bill will put this matter beyond doubt. I think this is a good thing. This clause will ensure that any claim which is before an Appeal Tribunal or an Assessment Appeal Tribunal- it will apply to the boards eventually- shall be valid if decided by a majority of votes of the members present and voting. I understand that the reasons for decisions have been sent by the tribunals to the ex-service men and women since 1 July 1974 and that the boards- that is the first determining authority that hears a claim from a veteran- will start giving reasons for their decisions on 1 January 1975. I will be very interested to see the long term result of the practice that has been adopted by the Government of requiring determining authorities to give the reasons for their decisions. I do not envy them their task at all. Of course one of the disadvantages of this practice will be to slow down the hearing of the claims of ex-service men and women. I know that this matter has been raised over a long time by the Returned Services League and other ex-service organisations. Let us hope that the Government's proposal to require determining authorities to give the reason for the decisions following a study of a claim from an ex-service man or woman will prove to be successful. 
Another change that I welcome on behalf of the Opposition is the decision to make veterans of other British Commonwealth countries who have resided in Australia for a period of 10 years eligible under the repatriation system. These people will receive the same benefits as are available to ex-service men and women who have served in the Australian forces. I hope that the Government will give consideration in the near future to extending these benefits to our other wartime allies who are living in Australia. I know that there has been a great deal of pressure and demand for this eligibility from British ex-service men and various other organisations. I know that Bill Clegg- I hope he is still with us as he was not very well the last time I saw him a couple of years ago- will be very happy to know of the Government's decision in this respect. This gentleman certainly took a great deal of interest in having this eligibility extended to British servicemen. As I say, I hope that he is still around to know that his work has at last been successful. 
As the Special Minister of State and Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  mentioned in his second reading speech and as I indicated at the start of my address, this Bill is pretty wide ranging. It proposes to increase the size of business and agricultural loans that are available to eligible people. It is proposed to increase business loans by $2,000 to $5,000 and agricultural loans by $4,000 to $ 10,000. 1 welcome this move, which I must honestly say is overdue. The promise of such a move was contained in the previous Government's policy manifesto for the December 1972 election. It was not possible to introduce it before then, and of course we did not get the chance after that election. I think this move is practical, full of commonsense and will be welcomed by those who are eligible for loans. 
I turn now to the special rate pension which is commonly known as the totally and permanently incapacitated pension. The Bill provides for an increase of $4 to bring the pension rate to $64. 10. In his second reading speech the Minister stated that another $4 will be added in autumn to increase it to $68.10, equal to the present minimum wage as promised in the Australian Labor Party's policy speech in 1972. Technically speaking, the Government has not been able to fulfil that promise in 2 years, but it must be admitted that the actual value of the TPI pension is more than the face value, because the pension is not subject to income tax. Nevertheless, it was not stated in the 1972 policy speech of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that taxation would or would not be taken into consideration. By the time autumn comes the pensioners will probably still be receiving less than the minimum wage because the minimum wage will have increased. Likewise, the Government will have failed to fulfil its promise to raise the general rate pension, at the 100 per cent level, to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The Minister, in his second reading speech said that this Bill raises the 100 per cent or general rate pension to 41 per cent of the minimum wage. That may be true; I do not query the figures. Nevertheless I feel that by the time the pension is adjusted again the extra 9 per cent will prove extremely elusive, unless of course the Government does not pursue its present economic approach, which I consider is irresponsible in some areas. 
Everyone will welcome the increase in the domestic allowance for war widows of $2.50 a week, bringing the allowance to $ 12 a week. The 98 per cent of war widows who qualify for this allowance will receive a basic pension of $43 a week. Only a very small proportion of war widows do not qualify for the allowance. In addition to the $43 a week, fringe benefits of considerable value are available to war widows. I just want to say, as I have said many times before, that I do not think that this country can do enough for war widows and particularly for those who I call the real war widows whose husbands never came back from service overseas. I believe that anything that can be done for war widows should be done by any government, no matter what political party or parties are in power. I really believe that from time to time we have been pretty miserable towards the war widows of Australia. 
I mentioned earlier that the total cost of the provisions of this Bill and of repatriation services will amount in round figures to $650m in this financial year. Of course in the next full financial year we will have to add quite a few million dollars to that figure. I calculate that it will be about $30m. The new rates are not being paid, in this financial year, for the full year; they are being paid only from the date of royal assent to this Bill. So the taxpayer and the Government had better get used to the idea that they will be faced with an enormous bill for repatriation expenditure in the next full financial year, particularly because of the increases that must inevitably follow if the Government sticks to its other promises in that financial year. In 4 years repatriation expenditure has increased from $378m to $650m, an increase of $272m. In 1973-74 it increased by $88m and in 1974-75 it will increase by a further $ 143m. Those figures speak for themselves. I must admit that in some areas increases are long overdue. Nevertheless, there appears to me to be a lack of responsibility by the Government in the economic sphere. It made too many rash promises during its electioneering. Now it is finding that it is caught with these promises and will have to make huge increases in repatriation and other social welfare votes in order to meet those promises. 
On many occasions since the Labor Government has come to power, I have warned the people in the former Repatriation Department that they were in danger of being merged with other departments and that the individuality and the speciality of the Department would be submerged in the Government structure. I was assured from time to time- I have a statement here made in March this year which backs up that assurance- by various Ministers that the amalgamation of the Repatriation Department with other departments, or dismemberment of the repatriation system was not part of the platform of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Bishop,  when he was Minister for Repatriation, said that the amalgamation of the Repatriation Department with other departments had not been considered. He said that any rumours circulating to the contrary were without foundation. At the New South Wales State Congress of the Returned Services League in Sydney in 1973, the Minister stated that neither he nor the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  was aware of any such plan for amalgamation. He gave an assurance that both he and the Minister for Defence would resist any move of this nature. 
When the announcement was made that the Repatriation Department would become the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, in my judgment that was the thin end of the wedge. I notice that when this Bill is passed, the Secretary of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation will also be Chairman of the Repatriation Commission. I repeat my warning to those who are interested in maintaining the repatriation section of the Department as a specialist organisation, representative of the 800,000 veterans, ex-servicemen and women still surviving in Australia, that they are in danger of losing this specialist organisation. I will not say it is being exactly submerged, because I have no proof of that. But I express the fear that the repatriation aspect of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation will diminish in importance. In fact with some of the social service measures that are being introduced, the Department is heading that way. This Bill will of course have beneficial results for the ex-servicemen and women of Australia. However, I still query its wisdom in the overall national economic policy. Whilst it might have beneficial results, there are other penalties. I consider that the specialised department is being submerged and is going more and more into the social services field. I hope the ex-servicemen and women and exservice organisations do not regret this changing situation in the future. I want to assure the veterans of Australia that the members of both the Country Party and the Liberal Party in this Parliament- and there are many veterans amongst us- will continue to be vigilant in watching the interests of the ex-service personnel of Australia. 
-The Government might have a committee comprising members of the Government, academics and trade union officials, but all I can say is that it has not done very well up to date. In discussing these estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Manufacturing Industry it must be said first that the actions and policies of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  have a most important bearing on manufacturing industries, both large and small, in Australia. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  also bears a heavy responsibility for the development, prosperity and growth of this section of industry in Australia. The 2 Ministers concerned have pursued policies which to date have resulted in our manufacturing industries being in a chaotic state. The Ministers have been assisted by senior colleagues such as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in creating a serious situation. 
People outside the Parliament such as the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and those in the communist organised unions and their fellow travellers, have also played a significant part in damaging private industry and the general economic and manufacturing scene. All the people I have just mentioned have by various decisions and actions hit the foundation of Australia's economy and history- the private enterprise sector. They have failed completely to realise that the private business sector, particularly the manufacturing group, involves the people who produce the goods, the wealth, the employment and the revenue which pays for the non-productive spheres of our society such as education, health, social welfare, industrial amenities and funds for Government housing programs. All these Ministers, ALP officials and communist union leaders working in close cooperation have hit industry hard by their inflationary actions. 
The major inflationary actions they have initiated include reckless spending by the Federal Government itself, unrealistic increases in wages and conditions for many public sectors of the community, weakness towards irresponsible and political strikes, erratic Government economic policies and lack of support for the Arbitration Commission. The record inflation we have experienced has in turn caused a dramatic increase in interest rates, a crippling increase in imports and a rocketing rate of unemployment. The Government and its few remaining supporters are trying to fool the Australian people by saying that unemployment and inflation are world wide problems, particularly in the Western world. 
I will admit that they are problems. But what they do not say is that unemployment and inflation have for the last 10 years been a serious problem in other countries but not in Australia. They quote the United Kingdom and the United States of America unemployment figures. Those countries have had high unemployment rates for years. The communist countries have had their problems too. Not much is said about the riots and deaths that occurred in some communist countries over rising prices and inflation. Australia for many reasons had been able to contain its inflation and unemployment within reasonable limits until the Labor Government's socialist policies and programs were introduced and took effect. The Australian manufacturing industry and its personnel are beginning to realise that the long term objective of the Labor Party is control of every industry and every person in Australia. They are beginning to realise that every Labor man has pledged himself to Government control of the means of production, distribution and exchange. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade- the de facto Prime Minister of Australia- the  President  of the ALP and their fellow travellers have now started the propaganda line of blaming 'the system'. The system they refer to is the private enterprise system which encourages people to work and to use their money and initiatives as investments in the progress of their nation- Australia. This system, which certainly needs updating and modifying from time to time, has served this country and its people well over a long period of time. The attack on private enterprise from a number of directions is all part of the socialist and communist plan to discredit the system. They want the people to lose confidence in the private enterprise system and thereby to have to turn to the Government. Manufacturing industry produces basic wealth and basic employment, which in turn create other jobs. 
Decentralised industry is a major part of the manufacturing scene and has been particularly savagely hit by the policies of the Labor Government. These decentralised secondary industries, which are of great significance as far as the Country Party is concerned, have not only been hit by the Government's blundering and ill judged tariff, import and currency decisions but also by many other programs. So serious has been the effect on manufacturing industries, both in the city and in the non-metropolitan areas, that in Victoria alone in the last 12 months 87 industries have retrenched staff and an additional 40 industries have closed down completely. Of the total of nearly 130 industries affected about 70 industries are in nonmetropolitan areas. I have tables supplied by the honourable Murray Byrne, the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation, to substantiate these figures. Unfortunately I do not have time to read them to honourable members. Many of the firms listed in this document are textile, clothing and footwear companies. In most cases they are the backbone of country towns. It is a disgrace that this Government can let this situation eventuate. 
The Government has adopted a policy of paying people not to work. This is part of its plan to get people used to depending on the socialist system. Vague statements have been made by various Ministers about import quotas, retraining, alternative industries and employment but we have not seen any results yet. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said the other day that companies would be given grants to provide viable alternative employment and production and that the scheme would be administered by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry in the House last week to detail more specifically employment and production opportunities to which the Prime Minister was referring in his statement and what the capital grants would be used for. The Minister, who is at the table at the moment, completely failed to answer the question. He could not give one single alternative. Neither has the Minister for Labor and Immigration been able to supply this information in reply to the many questions, letters and telegrams I have addressed to him asking for specific details. 
Industries and local government bodies are entitled to know what alternatives the Government thinks there are. Will the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry tell the House and these people whether they have sold out the textile, clothing and footwear industries to their communist friends in China and other places? If they have not, will they spell out in clear and unequivocal terms what their objectives are for these and other Australian manufacturing industries? All we have had up to date has been a lot of words and no practical results. Manufacturing industry in Australia has a small domestic market. The industry admits that it is not perfect, but by golly it is trying hard. I ask the Government to give it a fair go. Is the Government not able to do this because of its socialist pledge to its socialist system which has been such an outstanding failure around the world? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration, refers to the income maintenance scheme through which employees retrenched through the policies and actions of the Government have received the average weekly wage for a period of 6 months. Is the Minister aware that this 6-month period is now ending for the first batch of these people? Will the Government continue the income maintenance scheme until at least June 1975 in order that the effects of certain restrictive actions on imports recently announced by the Government can be assessed and also in order that the general economy of many country towns in particular will be maintained for the Christmas period and the ensuing 6 months? 
-The Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill 1974 has 3 major purposes. Firstly, it allows the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  in 'consultation with the State Ministers, to approve programs of urban and regional development. Secondly, it provides that the Australian government may agree- I presume that it does not have to agree- with the State governments upon the financial assistance to be provided for expenditure by the State or an approved body in that State for approved programs. Thirdly, it provides that all agreements made with the States under this legislation be tabled in the Parliament. This Bill and its purposes have a particularly strong significance for the electorate I represent, namely Indi, as they relate to the provision of finance for the AlburyWodonga complex. The Wodonga section of the growth centre complex is in my electorate. Of course, the Albury- Wodonga area was expanding and progressing very soundly and quite quickly before it was decided to make it a growth centre. 
In 1 97 1 the population of the designated area was 54,841 people and there were 16,000 dwellings. The 1974 count shows 59,570 people and 17,800 dwellings. So the population has increased by nearly 5,000 and the dwellings by 1,800 in those 3 years. The target for the area by the year 2000 is 300,000 people. This means that in 25 years about 241,000 more people will have to be provided for in the area and about an extra 60,000 to 75,000 dwellings will have to be provided. My calculations indicate that approximately 10,000 people will have to settle or be settled in the area each year and between 2,500 and 3,000 dwellings will have to be erected to house them. 
The achievement of these targets presents a tremendous challenge to everyone concerned. It appears that the responsible authorities face a monumental task to complete the program successfully. When one looks at the wide variety of manpower, resources and materials that will be required it seems that an extraordinary effort will have to be successfully mounted. Consideration of some of the other basic requirements- that is, apart from people and dwellings- which need to be met as the growth centre develops illustrates the magnitude of the task in front of the governments concerned and the individual people involved. I shall briefly list a few of them. The project means we will have to build a town the size of Wangaratta every 2 years. Thousands and thousands of jobs will have to be provided, and at present of course unemployment, particularly in Albury, is at a very serious level. The growth rate of Canberra will have to be exceeded. As I mentioned, the new population will have to be attracted and obviously the people will have to have jobs. Then there are all the other associated facilities which will be needed, such as hospitals, schools- high schools, primary schools and preschools provision for the intellectually handicapped. I hope that the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation will give every possible assistance to the Murray Valley Centre for Intellectually Handicapped Children which was recently granted a lease on what was Army land. The organisation has done a wonderful job and I am sure that the Development Corporation will give it every assistance. The area will also need health centres, shops, office accommodation, hotels, social planning counselling, recreation facilities, roads, an airport, houses and serviced land. 
Another important matter that must be attended to is the removal of the railway line which crosses the Hume Highway and cuts Wodonga in half. Failure to re-locate that MelbourneSydney railway line has constituted a disgrace to all governments over the years. The Albury-Wodonga growth centre concept is a worth-while exercise in principle. The growth centre idea is not new to the world; it has been implemented in other countries with various degrees of success. However, it is relatively new to Australia. Therefore, Albury-Wodonga must be viewed as somewhat of an experiment as well as a much-needed attempt to slow down the growth of our capital cities and to increase the population of Australia in non-metropolitan areas- a factor that the Australian Country Party has supported and fought for over the years. 
One of the unique and difficult problems for Albury-Wodonga, in my opinion, is that the development involves the Commonwealth Government and 2 State governments. The territory to be developed is in 2 States. There are differences in legislation and conditions between these States on vital matters. I shall not cover them all, but some of the vital ones are education, health, transport, law, food supply and hospital administration. It will certainly be most interesting to see how these problems can be overcome in practical terms as the development progresses. 
I cannot entirely get rid of a feeling of concern that there is and will be too much government control and planning in the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. The major reason which leads me to develop this feeling of concern is the commitment to socialism which the Government has. Every member of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament has pledged himself to support and to achieve the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange- in other words government control of everything and everybody. People should know and remember that to the Labor machine which really controls the Parliamentary Party, government control means control by one government from one central place, and, if achievable, by one Party entrenched in government by electoral manipulation. To support this statement I quote what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in the House in answer to a question on 20 November, last week. He said: 
Of course I have signed the Australian Labor Party's pledge whenever I have sought to be its candidate- 
The pledge to which he referred is the one I mentioned, advocating and supporting socialisation. The Prime Minister elaborated, saying that he will support the achieving of Labor's objectives by establishing or extending public enterprises where appropriate, by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. That policy cannot be divorced from the development of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. 
On the subject of government control there are many expressions of worry regarding the future administration and administrative arrangements of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. I quote the heading of the 'Border Morning Mail' of Friday, 8 November, which reads: 'Hamer Rebukes Planners for "Solo" Stand'. This refers to the administration. I do not say that I support what  Mr Hamer  said; I merely use this as an example of the concern that is felt in AlburyWodonga about the administration and administrative arrangements. I stress that these comments are not made in criticism of the personality of the members of the administration so much as in criticism of the administrative machinery. I stress that any statements I make here or elsewhere in no way reflect or are intended to reflect on the persons who are working towards the development of Albury-Wodonga. 
Naturally in any undertaking like the AlburyWodonga project there will be clashes of personality and differences of opinion, but it is the principles and the administrative set-up and the financial arrangements which must be examined continually and reviewed and revised if it is found necessary so to do. One major aspect that should be watched is the set-up and authority of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation and the method of decision-making as the program progresses. It has been suggested to me that a major weakness in the present set-up is that the same people are making policy, implementing policy and checking that the policies have been carried out. It may be found that it will be more practical to change the structure and responsibilities of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation as time goes on. All kinds of suggestions have been made. One particularly worthy of consideration is that a much larger and more representative board of management could be appointed. This board would meet regularly and receive reports from a small number of paid executive officers. The effect of this move would possibly be to give the general public and local government a more effective say in the complex. It is felt that the consultative council which exists at the moment is not quite doing the job that it was meant to do in the sense that it does not have enough bite, enough say, enough authority, enough influence in the- decisions that are being taken and implemented. 
The claim has been made that most people favour the growth centre plan. A survey by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation published on 5 November in the Melbourne 'Age' indicated that 65 per cent of the people generally accepted the area as a growth centre. This article states: 
The survey, carried out by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, clashes with the result of a skilled survey conducted by fifth form students at Wodonga Technical School. 
In the results of that survey. 64.2 per cent of the 820 district people interviewed were against accelerated growth in their areas. 
Those 2 surveys were taken within a very short period of each other but different results were obtained. 
This Bill provides for the allocation of a significant sum, $40m, this financial year to the Albury-Wodonga area. On the face of it, it would appear that the Commonwealth Government has been generous in its allocation. But the money is not in the form of a grant; it is loan money, future repayments of which are likely to be a heavy burden on the ratepayers. It is anticipated that most of the money will be used for land acquisition- about $30m has been mentioned speculatively for this purpose- and that the rest will be spent providing services to 600 building blocks and 200 acres of industrial land. 
I have mentioned the conditions under which this money has been made available. There is to be a 5-year deferment in the payment of interest, but not a holiday from interest. There is great concern in this respect. I have here a newspaper article of substantial size from the 'Border Morning Mail ' showing the concern of the Albury City Council on this matter. The Wodonga City Council also is extremely concerned about what will happen at the end of that 5-year period. Apparently the interest rates are cumulative. The bond rate of interest is the rate which is being charged. The interest accumulates half yearly for 5 years which makes the effective rate of interest after 5 years 161 per cent. In other words, for every $lm that is borrowed, $1,610,000 will need to be found to repay the loan. That loan has to be repaid in 25 years. The opinion is that that period is not long enough. By comparison, loans for water and sewerage purposes are repayable over 40 years. 
-That is right. This is loan money. 
-I have obtained the information from a most reliable source. I know that the Minister will be meeting a deputation from the Wodonga City Council at 3.30 this afternoon, if it is possible for him to get away. The Minister will recall that he has that appointment to talk about the moving of the municipal saleyards. The Minister will be able to discuss this matter at that meeting with the appropriate people. My information is that these people understand that the money is to be repaid in 25 years. They compare that with similar loans in England where the repayment period extends over 60 years. These people are concerned about the situation. That is the point that I am making. I am saying that there is concern in the Albury City Council and the Wodonga City Council. It is my job to bring these matters before the Parliament. 
Several other matters are worrying the people in that area. One is the fact that the Prime Minister said in his policy speech in 1972 that telephone call charges in this area would be equalised with those charges in capital dues. We have not heard anything more about that undertaking except that the Government proposes no firm program. Another is that the land owners in the area are very worried about the implications and the effect of the capital gains tax proposed by the Government. They are anxiously waiting to see what the situation will be in that respect. That tax certainly will meet with a lot of resistance from the Country Party. Another matter relates to the municipal saleyards which I have just mentioned. The Minister has agreed to see a deputation this afternoon about that matter. 
The Bill deserves support as its aim is to help develop areas in Australia outside our capital cities. I have mentioned areas of difficulty and concern. I have expressed some fears relating to the dangers of over-control by governments without sufficient consultation with local government. I have pointed out also the enormous amount of work and co-operation entailed in the success of the project. The Country Party has always supported actions- it will continue to do so- that will help decentralise development. As the member representing the Wodonga section of the Albury-Wodonga complex, I will use my best endeavours to ensure that this ambitious project succeeds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Government is prohibiting, or attempting to prohibit, the people who originated from Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia from flying or exhibiting their national flags at functions. 
) If not, is the Government attempting to put any sort of restrictions on the displays of their flags. 
If so, under what authority is the Government acting. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that Australia has official diplomatic relations with North Vietnam? In view of the Prime Minister's recent answer to the honourable member for Chisholm in which he said in part that the regime with which we have relations in South Vietnam has not played its part to end the fighting, and we have told it so, I ask: Has he told the North Vietnamese Government that it has not played its part in observing the peace agreement? If not, why not? Is it because the Prime Minister considers that North Vietnam has not breached the agreement? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has just spoken to this Bill. He pointed out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  misled - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, refers to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry relating to the multilateral trade negotiation discussions to be held under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in the near future. Is he aware that there is considerable disquiet throughout manufacturing industry in Australia about the wording of the reference to the IAC, it having been described as confusing, vague and contradictory? Will he consult with representatives of Australian manufacturing industry with a view to amending the terms of reference? Finally, is it a fact that the IAC's report on this matter will not be available for discussion before the multilateral trade negotiations take place? 
I have no objection to seeing representatives of industry who I think are concerned that there might be a general tariff reduction recommended now. It is not envisaged that the results of the present multilateral trade negotiations will be implemented until 1980, so I think that industry is becoming a little supersensitive as to what is the position. It would be quite wrong to think that we would have our representatives at the negotiations without the benefit of an investigation into industry in Australia in relation to the specific proposals to be put by the United States or Canada, which countries are urging for some sort of tariff reductions. We made it clear when we were at the negotiating table that the 25 per cent tariff reduction in Australia in 1973 must be taken into consideration. In respect of what might be the recommendations of the IAC, I point out that it could take some time for the Commission to bring forward its report. But what has been done is in accordance with practice; that is, that anybody representing Australia should be fully briefed and informed. Further, the Government itself should have the opportunity to advise its negotiator on what stand to adopt. 
-I am honoured and privileged to second this motion on behalf of the National Country Party. I also am very pleased in a personal sense to second the motion that the right honourable Bill Snedden be elected to the office of  Speaker  of this House, a motion so capably moved by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  One of the main reasons it gives me pleasure is that I have always had a strong personal respect for  Mr Snedden  as a man. Like the honourable member for Hotham, I regard  Mr Snedden  as a personal friend but this will not influence him at all in any treatment that he might give when he is elected  Speaker.  He commands my respect for the way in which he has carried out his duties as a member of this House during the 17 years that I have had the opportunity of seeing him in action in this House. I believe that all fair-minded members of this House would agree that the right honourable Bill Snedden has conducted himself as a very able member of Parliament and has handled the hurly burly of debate in a calm, effective and dignified manner. I am sure that these qualities will be displayed in his important position as  Speaker  of the House.  His  ability cannot be questioned, as the list of the offices he has held and which were detailed by the honourable member for Hotham will show. 
I endorse strongly the personal tributes that were paid by the mover of the motion to the right honourable Bill Snedden. He has been an outstanding all-rounder in his lifetime. He has been a great community worker, a great member of Parliament, a great parent and a great sportsman. I am confident he will discharge his duties without fear or favour. I am sure he will always reach his decisions on the grounds of fairness and regard for the Standing Orders, and for the dignity and decorum of this House. I am sure that the right honourable Bill Snedden will be a fine Speaker. In conclusion, I offer him my personal co-operation. I am sure all members of the National Country Party will do the same and will support this motion unanimously. I formally second the motion. 

 Mr E. G. WHITLAM (Werriwa-Leader of the Opposition)- It is appropriate that the first motion I move in this Parliament, like my last motion in the old Parliament should concern the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  On the last occasion I spoke he was  Speaker.  He was entrusted by honourable members with a task of unprecedented importance for the institution of Parliament and for the future of Australian democracy. By the manner in which he discharged that task- by the manner in which he carried out his duties, throughout his term as  Speaker  and during the gravest crisis ever confronted by the Parliament- the honourable member brought credit and dignity to his office, and earned, as no  Speaker  has before him, the right to continue in the chair. During the events of 1 1 November- momentous for the Parliament, for  the strength and vitality of our democratic institutions, for Australia's reputation in the worldthe honourable member for Corio emerged as a true and valiant defender of the rights of Parliament. No higher praise can be given to a  Speaker. Mr Speaker  Scholes upheld the ancient traditions of his office and discharged the primary function for which that office was created. He stood firm in defence of the people's House against a challenge to its authority, first from the Senate, and subsequently from the representative of the Crown itself. 
On the afternoon of 1 1 November  Mr Scholes  was directed by the House to wait upon the Governor-General and convey to him the views of this House- its want of confidence in the installed Prime Minister and its wish that the leader of the Party commanding a majority in the people's House be called upon once more to form a Government. It is no fault of the honourable member for Corio that his message went unheeded and unheard, that the Governor-General refused to see him until after the dissolution of Parliament was proclaimed, that the  Speaker  was insulted by the representative of the Queen, and that the office of  Speaker  and all the rights and privileges it embodies were treated with contempt. After the  coup d'etat  Mr Speaker  Scholes was the only member of this House to retain office with the approval of the House. He did not rest in his endeavours to redress the wrong that was done to this institution and to defend the rights of honourable members. He wrote promptly to the Queen expressing his concern at the events of 1 1 November. He elicited from  Her  Majesty a response to the effect that if the Queen's representative chose to abuse his powers there was nothing she could do about it and nothing we could do about it. That response was proper, and doubtless, I regret to say, it was accurate. 
The rights of the Australian Parliament in relation to the Crown remain unclear. The reserve powers of the representative of the Crown in Australia remain unchallenged. Powers that the American people rejected in 1776 survive in Australia in 1976. Sooner or later those powers must be curtailed if parliamentary democracy in this country is to flourish in full measure. The record will show that  Mr Speaker  Scholes took his stand in defence of the great central principle of our system of governmentthat the will of the people resides in this, the people's House, and in this House alone. For the record and for the information of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the correspondence between  Her  Majesty and  Mr Speaker  Scholes. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware of some criticism of the Government's recent decision to introduce global tariff quotas on imported knitwear? Is this criticism justified in view of Australia's efforts to develop trade with the Philippines and other Asian countries? Will the Minister ensure that a close watch is kept on the effect of these global quotas on job opportunities in the Australian textile industry, especially in country areas? 
-My question to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the precarious situation of the dairy industry. Is the Minister aware that an efficient dairy farmer in Victoria, milking 90 cows twice a day 7 days a week, is earning the miserable income of about $70 a week and at the same time has to meet increased costs because of Labor Government caused inflation? Is he also aware - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, first of all I want to congratulate the Government on the Speech of the GovernorGeneral. Secondly, I want to offer my congratulations to the  Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees, the  Deputy  Chairmen and, last but not least, the honourable members of this House who have made their maiden speeches. I do not wish to pass judgment in any expert way but I must say, for what my opinion is worth, that I have been most impressed with honourable members on both sides of the House, but particularly with those on the Liberal and National Country Party side. 
This House is having this debate on the Governor-General's Speech because there was an election in December 1975 at which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  led the Australian Labor Party to another disastrous defeat. I am sure that members of the Government Parties are all glad that he is still the Leader of the Australian Labor Party. He is almost the best asset the Liberal and National Country Parties have. If we have a look at his record since 1972 we will see why. He got home with a majority of nine after the 1972 election. This was reduced to a narrow 5-seat majority, decided by only about 220 votes over 3 different seats. If there had been less than 1000 votes cast the other way the Liberal and National Country Parties would have had a majority of about 9 seats. In the Northern Territory 21 members were elected for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and the ALP did not win one seat. In the elections for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Labor suffered a severe setback. This is the record of the Leader of the Opposition. In Queensland where the Australian Labor Party held 33 seats before the last election, after the election it held 1 1 seats. It lost 22 seats. 
That is true. As my friend the honourable member for Kennedy said, there was not even a twelfth man. The Bass by-election was another great example of the leadership of this great politician, this great statesman. 'I am the greatest', he said- self-styled. There was a massive 17 per cent swing in the Bass by-election. Then finally there was the 1975 Federal election at which the Party was all but eliminated. That is the record of this man who is portrayed by some people as being the great leader. They said that no one can replace him. In modern jargon the Leader of the Opposition is bad news for Labor and he is bad news for Australia. The Australian people have shown that they know this. As far as we are concerned the Opposition should keep him as leader. He will do us. 
The sometimes insidious, sometimes blatant anti-democratic actions of the Labor Government over 3 years should be of great concern to all Australians and must never be forgotten. It is the duty of all of us in the coalition parties and all truly democratic people continually to remind Australians of what Labor was attempting to do to and in Australia. A major example of its antidemocratic actions was the 2 1 Bills rejected over a period by a small but wise majority of the Senate. The Senate's action in rejecting this legislation started a chain of events which led to the annihilation of the Labor Government at a democratic election. There is no doubt that many Australians realise the significant and frightening implications of these proposed laws and their totalitarian effects and objectives. 
Those 21 Bills, dominated by the Inter-State Commission Bill, would have turned Australia into one of the most heavily policed and regulated of Western societies. Democratic government and democratic freedom as we know them would have been history. This would have eventually meant the elimination of private enterprise and the replacement of it with a government controlled economic system. Australia would have been virtually turned into a communist-like country. The Liberal and National Country Party members of Parliament and our supporters must keep hammering the fact that when a Labor Government or most Labor men use the words 'democracy' and 'peace' they have an entirely different meaning from the meaning which the vast majority of Australians believe them to have. The word 'democracy' to Labor has a similar meaning to that given it by the communists. The Labor and the communist people believe democracy will only exist when Australia has a socialist, neocommunist government which can never be defeated. To them democracy exists when the vote of the people does not mean anything. Labor's definition of democracy is a situation in which if anyone disagrees with it they will be dealt with. I want to quote from a television interview with  Senator James  McClelland which was recorded on 13 November just before the election. The interviewer said on television to  Senator James  McClelland: 
We saw an incident on a television newscast last night  or  a non-Labor unionist being set upon by his pro-Labor mates. What's your feeling about that? 

 Senator James McClelland answered: 
I am very strongly opposed to it. People who come to meetings to heckle us or to express their disapproval of us can't be terribly surprised if they get roughed up. 
That is a lovely example of democracy- if a nonLabor union man at a rally tries to express his point of view he can expect to get roughed-up. That quote was from a transcript of a television interview recorded just before the last election. 
-Senator James McClelland. The communist definition of 'peace and democracy' is a situation which will exist only when the whole world is ruled by the communist system. If ever Labor were to have a majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate it would redraw the electorate boundaries so that it would be impossible to defeat it. We would then be in a similar position to that in other countries dictated to by a one party system. This objective is obvious in Labor's new electorate boundary proposals rejected by the Senate. With those boundaries Labor would have needed only about 40 per cent of the vote to be the government. That was only a start. In time we would have seen boundaries which would have meant that Labor needed only about 30 per cent of the votes to win. 
Look elsewhere at the socialist-communist election tactics. Look at the United Kingdom and the Labour Party there. The Labour Party got only 39 out of every 100 votes cast in England and yet won government. In Sweden the Government can be changed only with 65 per cent of the vote against it. In the more ruthless socialist-communist countries such as Poland, East Germany- I was there last yearand Russia of course, the people can never change the government through the ballot box. In Poland and East Germany it is proudly stated that the National United Front gets 98 per cent of the votes cast. Of course it does; there is no one else to vote for. This is what Labor is aiming to do in the long run. These are examples of what Labor means by democracy. It is a sham party. It stands for deception and double standards. The Australian people have shown that they are a wake up to the situation under Labor. 
Returning to the proposed laws that were rejected, I want to try to make an emphatic point on some of them. They must never be forgotten. The Inter-State Commission Bill contained practically enough muscle in its own right to create a totalitarian Australia. The Commission, to be a 5-man body with unlimited powers, was not to be subject to Parliament. These 5 men were to be able to override and to ignore the laws of the Commonwealth and the States. The Commission was to have the status of an alternative government, having the same kind of power as a People's Revolutionary Council. Next I refer to the Broadcasting and Television Bill. Under this legislation, the socialist Labor Government would have been free to dictate the nature and the content of all television and radio material. In effect, complete censorship would have been imposed on all the broadcasting media so that freedom of speech and freedom of the Presstwo of the basic tenets of democracy- would have been denied to every Australian. Yet, to my amazement, certain prominent journalists in Canberra and elsewhere continue their support for Labor even though Labor proposes to destroy the basic freedom which all journalists constantly say they support. Journalists say that they support freedoms, but the sincerity of their statements must be questioned because of the obvious sympathy of many of them with communist regimes around the world, regimes which practise all the complete antitheses of democracymurder, deceit and class hatred. 
The next democracy-destroying Bill was the electoral legislation. This was nothing but a mass of savage prohibitions and penalties aimed at crippling the Liberal and the National Country Party financially but having no effect on the Labor Party. Various loopholes in the Bill allowed the Labor Party an out so that it was not subject to the same conditions as the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. In short, that legislation would have allowed the Labour Party an almost unlimited term of officeanother example of the shining light to Labor's democracy. Then we had the Bill relating to the Australia Police Force. This Bill would have effectively placed every citizen under surveillance. It would have allowed the police unprecedented freedom of search and entry. In essence, it would have been a major threat to civil liberties, a blatant attack on another basicfactor of our democratic society. These threats to democracy and to our freedoms are not limited solely to the rejected Bills. They are ever present in the actions of the more militant communist controlled unions in this country. With the composition of the Federal Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions so heavily loaded in favour of the communists and the hard core left wing- there is not much difference -the Labor Party is virtually under the control of the communists. For example, maintenance of a 40-hour week as part of an overall plan to reduce inflation and restore economic sanity is complete anathema to the communist led unions. They will willingly grind all industry to a halt and bring the country to its knees in furtherance of their aims. 
I quote from a document titled  Communist Rules for Revolution  which was written in 1919 and which lists the 4 basic rules as: 
Always preach true democracy, but seize power as fast and ruthlessly as possible. By encouraging government extravagance, destroy its credit, produce fear of inflation with rising prices and general discontent. 
Foment unnecessary strikes in vital industries, encourage civil disorders and foster a lenient and soft attitude on the part of government towards such disorders. 
By specious argument cause the breakdown of the pledged word- the truth. 
I have a quote here from a well known former member of the Labor Party, now a senator,  Senator Harradine,  who talks about communist actions in the trade unions. He says: 
The communists are trying to use the trade union as a weapon to tear down the institution of parliamentary democracy. 
They are hitting at the integrity of the trade union movement and in an indirect way using the movement for political purposes. 
One of the myths on which Labor was elected in 1972 was that it had a special relationship with the unions. Some relationship! In 3 years 11 million working days were lost. The year 1974 was the worst for strikes since 1 932. 
Look at the record of the past Labor Governmenta government under the control of the unions, many of them communist led. It is a record of attempts to deny the individual his freedom; a record of incredible bungling and pathetic economic mismanagement, giving Australia the worst recession of practically any country except Iceland. It was a record of completely stupid government spending during a period of raging inflation, with a Budget deficit of astronomical proportions- over $8,000m in 2 years- unemployment at unprecedented levels, huge increases in the Public Service, jobs for the boys and a Prime Minister and his Ministers gallivanting their way around the world, cuddling and crawling with the communists in the Third World while turning a cold shoulder to the United States of America. In a last desperate attempt to cover up the bungling and try to evade the real issues the then Prime Minister attempted to confuse the country with the pretence that holding a democratic election represented a threat to democracy. What absolute bunkum! Democracy and freedom were at risk under the Labor Government. Fortunately, however, the people could see the dangers of a socialist government and the welfare state. Outside Australia, the communist tentacles spread even further. Angola has recently fallen to the 
Russian and Cuban backed MPLA. There was no protest by the Labor Party; no protest by the United Nations, no observer sent to Angola. No, they ignored that completely. Much closer to home, in Hanoi recently the Communist Party newspaper called on underground groups throughout South East Asia to step up the fight to overthrow the non-communist governments. The newspapers state 'communist victories in Indo China and United States setbacks in the region had combined to the point where the prospects for revolt had never been so good.' That is according to the Hanoi communists. I saw the signs in 1970 when Laos and Cambodia were the victims of pitiful and brutal aggression. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was there with me then too. He was in the hospitals at Phnom Penh. He had the courage to send a telegram of condemnation back to the Labor Party and to the Parliament here in Australia. He saw people being unmercifully and brutally treated by the communists in Cambodia and Laos. Many people, mainly pro-communist, have sneeringly denigrated the domino theory. Events in South East Asia show that it is happening before our very eyes. Day after day, week after week the communists are working unremittingly. They arc fanatical- I give them full credit for that. It is about time some of us got a bit more fanatical and had the courage of our convictions and spoke out on these matters. Democracy as we know it has its imperfections. It does not always make for an efficient system. Nevertheless, it is a privilege, and a demanding privilege at that. This country has fought 2 wars and more, to defend it. Rows of Australian graves on battlefields are spread across the world to show that we defend freedom of choice. Sometimes we need a Hitler and a Stalin to remind us of a privilege that many people have laid down their lives for. The Labor Party is dominated from outside this Parliament. It is dominated, tied body and soul to the Federal Conference of the Labor Party, and the communists dominate that. I am convinced that in the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  we have 2 great men of experience, intelligence and strength who will lead this Government, with the assistance of the people of this great country and with the backing of all members on the Government side. I am sure they will use their best endeavours to put this country back on the right track after pathetic economic management. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Minister expect that the proposed ban on cigarette advertising on television and radio will have a very damaging effect on the revenue of radio and television stations, particularly those outside the capital cities, even to the extent of running some stations into a loss situation? Has the Government any plans in view to replace this revenue? 
-Very briefly, I want to heartily support the sentiments expressed in the matter which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was sensible and courageous enough to bring before the House. I believe that the House owes him a debt of gratitude. I do not intend to speak for very long. I have been informed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that this debate is to conclude, on the instructions of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  who is responsible for the conduct of the business of the House. I will respect his wishes. I just want to say, however, that this is such an important matter that I believe the House should have more time than it has had to discuss it. Not only should we raise this matter on behalf of the Polish people in Poland but we should raise it also on behalf of the expatriate Polish people wherever they are around the world but particularly those in Australia. I am sure we all have a great admiration for the historic achievements of the Polish people through the centuries. They have been subjected to tyrannical and dictatorial governments for hundreds of years and the Opposition speakers were quite right when they raised that point. Nevertheless, we are living in 1976 and this is the year that counts. Therefore, whilst I must respect the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the program of the House and I am not able to elaborate on my thoughts on the subject before the House, I support the remarks of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and, of course, the honourable member for Mackellar. 
I particularly support the incorporation in  Hansard  of the publications sent to us by the Federation of Polish Organisations of Victoria and also the sentiments expressed in the open letter written by 59 Polish intellectuals to the  Speaker  of the Parliament of the Polish People's Republic. I had the privilege of visiting Poland for 5 days last year as a member of a delegation led by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It was certainly a most enlightening experience. There is no doubt that the Polish people are under an iron handed Government which they have no hope whatsoever of changing. People in Australia must recognise this as a lesson for all of us and one to be constantly borne in mind. A similar thing could happen here in Australia. We could have an electoral system whereby we would not be able to change the government. There is no doubt that the Labor Party is aiming towards adopting such a system and of being in a position in government where it would be impossible for it to be defeated. This is the situation that exists in Poland. 
Due to the timing of the business of the House I conclude my remarks by saying that every right thinking person who has any belief in democracy should take every opportunity to condemn communist ideology and communist practices around the world. I wish to emphasise a very important part of the matter raised by the honourable member for Mackellar. I refer to that part which says that the action in Poland is 'an assault which throws light on'- and underlines and stresses- 'the international tactics of creeping Communism.' This incident should not be viewed in isolation. It is bad enough in isolation but it should be viewed as part of the worldwide picture and the worldwide insidious and often brutal tactics of the Communist ideologies and regimes. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
It does not say so in the blue sheet. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the plight of thousands of Australian dairy farmers who are in a desperate situation because of factors beyond their control, such as overseas markets and severe drought conditons. It also relates to the jobs of thousands of other people who depend on the dairy industry for employment. I ask: What action has the Federal Government taken? Has it further action in mind? Has the Minister been urging the State governments to use the considerable powers they possess to help this industry and to meet their responsibilities in this matter. Have the State governments done all they can or should do? 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is related to the continuing serious drought situations throughout a large part of Australia. I refer the Prime Minister to answers to questions asked in this House by the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Wimmera in particular in which reference was made to an offer made to the States to change the formula for drought assistance to a $1 for $1 basis if any State so wished. Has the Prime Minister received any response to that offer, apart from statements made by some Victorian State Government Ministers and members that Commonwealth aid for drought is a confidence trick? Is it fair and reasonable to describe the Commonwealth's offers and assistance for drought relief as a confidence trick? Finally, will the Prime Minister urge the State governments, particularly that of Victoria, to treat the drought situation as a matter of urgency? 
-The Budget has been well received by the vast majority of Australians. It has been accorded approval by the man in the street, by most economists of any standing and by the private sector of Australia. Therefore, I consider it appropriate for me to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on the contents of his first Budget. I hope that it is the first of very many more that this Treasurer delivers. He should feel some considerable sense of satisfaction that the application, hard work and dedication which he has no doubt given to his awesome and onerous task has been rewarded by the general approval of the Australian community. Of course, there have been criticisms by various groups of people that they have not received enough finance for their own interests. This is to be expected. In some cases it could be said that certain groups have a duty to the people they represent to state their opinions that more of a share of the finance should have been allocated to those groups or to certain industries. 
As a member of the National Country Party and therefore a member of the Party which has a specialist role in this Parliament to represent people who live outside Melbourne, Sydney and some other capital cities, I should have liked more assistance to have been given to industries and projects located outside those cities. It must be an objective of governments, with the Federal Government giving the lead, to slow down the population growth of our capital cities and to assist and speed up the economic and population growth of the rest of Australia. The National Country Party stands deeply committed to this objective and to the interests and welfare of all the people who live outside the capital citiesMelbourne and Sydney in particular. Of course, we stand for the interests of the whole of Australia and of all Australians. There is no clash between these statements. On the contrary, I believe that the fact that the National Country Party has this specialist role in the Parliament is in the best interest of all Australians. 
I want to mention some specific problem areas which are affecting people in the Indi electorate and also in many other non-metropolitan electorates to a somewhat greater or lesser degree. The major matters to which I refer are as follows: Firstly, the very serious drought which is beginning to dominate a large and important productive area of Australia; secondly, the continuing low returns to the beef farmer; thirdly, the continuing low returns to the dairy farmer which, but for Federal Government assistance, would be considerably lower; fourthly, the deteriorating situation in the textile industry and the apparently disturbing attitude of certain people in important positions in this country to that industry and to some other important industries; fifthly, the Albury-Wodonga development; sixthly, the unwillingness of the State governments to accept that they have great authority and responsibilities to do more to help in most of the problem areas I have mentioned. Two other major matters hitting the people of Indi very hard and hitting all Australia hard are the high cost structure of the country and the associated actions of communist controlled unions which are dedicated to forcing up our cost structure all the time until they- that is the members of the Communist Party- attain their ultimate objective of wrecking our economy and destroying our society and freedoms. 
It is impossible in this speech with the time I have available to me to deal with all the consequences and ramifications of the drought. There seems to me to be an appalling lack of planning for the next 6 months during which the drought could easily continue. I am aware that it could break tomorrow. But let us not forget that the drought extends from Western Australia, through South Australia, a large part of Victoria to southern New South Wales. 
And Tasmania; I thank the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  for his interjection. I am aware that the drought could break tomorrow or next week. But even if this happens, it will be too late to provide feed in some areas, too late io plant crops in some areas, too late to grow hay in other areas. Different areas affected need different types of aid. There is no doubt that we could be heading for the worst drought in recorded history in the parts of Australia which I have mentioned. To illustrate the gravity of the situation, I inform the House that in my home town of Wangaratta, where the average rainfall is 26 inches a year and the lowest recorded rainfall in the 100 years of recorded history is 12 inches, we have had only 9 inches for the whole year. Therefore, we still are 3 inches short of the lowest ever recorded rainfall. I cite that as an illustration of the severity of the drought. 
I suggest to the Government that action be taken immediately to set up an emergency body composed of representatives from the areas affected. Perhaps it could be confined to the areas that I have mentioned already. I know that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  the honourable member for Denison and other honourable members from parties other than mine have been bringing the drought situation to the attention of the Government on regular occasions. But I suggest specifically that we set up an emergency body in case this drought continues for another 6 months which could easily be the case, as those of us who have lived in country areas for a long time well know. The emergency body should be constituted at Federal and State levels and, of course, at the primary producer organisation level. As we all know, the drought affects also the business people of the country areas. The emergency body should be charged with the urgent preparation of a series of contingency proposals which could be considered as appropriate and practical to be instituted to help offset the effects of the devastating drought. 
Before I speak further about specific primary and secondary industry problems and in particular the high cost structure effect, I should like to quote briefly from an article in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper written by  Mr Geoff  Wilson and published last Friday, 17 September 1976. 1 congratulate  Mr Wilson  on the content and presentation of the article. I propose to seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record. It is quite a lengthy article and I have already consulted with officers of  Hansard  and the honour'able member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is at the table. They have agreed that it can be incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
-The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  asks whether it is worth reading. As I say, I congratulate the writer,  Mr Geoff  Wilson, on the content and presentation of this article. In my opinion it is one of the best articles I have ever seen written on the situation facing the primary producer in Australia and how his returns have declined. The writer deals with not only the high cost situation but shows also how returns to the primary producer have declined in relation to the retail value of the selling price of various primary products over the last few years. 
I will give two or three examples. In 1970, 68 per cent of the price of a pound of butter went to the farmer. Last financial year, 1975-76, that had dropped to 40 per cent. The percentage of the retail price of cheese which went to the farmer in 1970-71 was 30 per cent. Last year, it dropped to 25 per cent. In 1973, 62.3 per cent of the retail price of a pound of beef went to the primary producer. In 1976, it had dropped to 37.2 per cent. In 1971, 20 per cent of the price of an  unsliced  loaf of bread went to the wheat grower. In 1976, his share of the price had dropped to 15 per cent. On top of the lower returns must be added the higher cost structure which the farmer has to bear to produce the goods I have mentioned. In my opinion, a man could make a very effective speech simply by quoting the whole of this article. But I content myself by citing these few figures from it and now ask for leave to have it  incoroporated  in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 

-What has caused this reduction in income to which I refer? It is mainly a result of high labour costs between the farm gate and the customer. Briefly, I cite 3 examples. Firstly, meat processing charges have risen absolutely astronomically. The second example is the unloading of wool at the wool stores. A man took his wool to a store in Victoria. A gang of 8 men was there. Two worked and six looked on. He said it had to do with some agreement with the union and that they had to do it. The third example concerns a tanker driver who called at a dairy farm in which I have had an interest for the last 1 1 years. He called a few Sundays ago to pick up the milk. He told me he was being paid $56 for that one day's work. Good luck to him if he can get it. I do not begrudge the man that money at all. But it cost his company $56 for him to pick up milk for that one day. 
The dairy farmer of course is showing a loss. The appalling position that we have got into with regard to costs is illustrated and amplified by the fact that our average wage in this country is nearly 30 per cent higher than the average wage in the United States of America, the worlds richest country. I feel that a great deal of the blame for this almost unbelievable situation rests squarely on the shoulders of the previous Labor Government. 
I want to talk very briefly about some of the industries that are affected. There are some very serious problems in my electorate and they apply over the whole of Australia. After all, surely we are here to present the problems of the people we represent to the national Parliament of this country. Of course one could speak for 2 hours on the problems confronting the dairy industry. Drought is over-shadowing a great area of production in the dairy industry. A major problem is the skim milk powder stockpile overseas. Today there is a return of only 50c a pound for butter fat whereas 18 months ago it was 70c a pound. To an ordinary farm producing 30 000 pound of butter fat this means a difference of about $6,000 a year. What the dairy industry is saying to the Government- and I think it is a reasonable proposition- is that it wants the price of butter fat underwritten for a limited period at 55c a pound. The Government has done a great job in that it has underwritten the price of butter fat at 50c a pound, but I think that the dairy industry has a reasonable proposition in wanting 55c a pound. We have all been waiting on the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which was chaired by  Sir John  Crawford, The report has come out now and, as I heard the comments of leaders of the dairy industry on the radio on Friday, it has been well accepted by them. It is a good basis to work on. It does not recommend a minimum price for butter fat but as I told the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  I certainly believe that 55c a pound could be underwritten. 
Next we come to the beef industry. It has entered its third consecutive low price year. The Government has tried to help by loans at 4 per cent interest. However, in the past it has felt the eligibility criteria has been too tight and the upper limit has been too low. Some moves have been made to loosen the eligibility criteria and the amount available has been doubled. One could talk for a long time on the problem of the beef industry and once again the drought problem is involved. Once again, also, the beef industry's problem has been caused by international markets, particularly the Common Market being closed to us for the last 3 years. If only we could get some good rains over a large part of Australia it would make a big difference to the price of beef. But at least some long term loans at a 4 per cent interest rate are available. I think it must be agreed that this is fairly reasonable. 
I should like to pass very briefly to the textile industry. I could say a lot more than my time allows me but members are being asked to restrict their remarks as much as possible. In my opinion, the textile industry is a very important industry to Australia. I am very perturbed at the trend exhibiting itself in both the Wangaratta Woollen Mills and the Bruck mills in my home city of Wangaratta and in the textile industry generally. The textile industry has been a contentious industry for many years. A lot of academics and theoreticians have put forward all sorts of ideas and criticisms of the textile industry. The fact is that much of that criticism has been very uninformed and very inaccurate. The people who made the criticism have not done their research properly. In the textile industry the rot started in July 1973 when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  a great economist, reduced the tariffs across the board by 25 per cent in an arbitrary move and at the same time introduced policies which put the cost structure of this country up to very high levels. Then in February of 1974 the Labor Government abolished all of the import quotas on textiles and this aggravated the position still further. 
The knitting apparel report which was presented by the Industries Assistance Commission in April of this year and accepted by the Government in June is causing me great concern. I urge the Government to keep a close watch on the effect of the increase in import quotas for garments and for knitted outer wear in particular. The effect of the LAC report is to permit an increase in import quotas. This is affecting the employment situation in my home town of Wangaratta and I do not like that one little bit. I think that the Government has to come out and say that we need a textile industry in this country. It upset me to see a report from a leaked departmental document in the Melbourne  Sun  on Saturday.  Mr Laurie  Oakes of the Melbourne  Sun  quoted from the leaked confidential report as follows: 
Examples of industries which are particularly susceptible to further structural change are the automotive, electronic, whitegoods, shipbuilding, textiles, apparel, footwear and canned deciduous fruit industries. 
If there are people in the Public Service thinking in that way, we had better have a closer look at their qualifications. What industries will be left in Australia if we rationalised those industries? I sound a warning to the Goverment not to be guided too much by theorists and academics who deal in unrealistic theories. What we have to have in this country are jobs for Australians. The rot was started by the Labor Government and I hope that people never forget it and that it is not forgotten, particularly, when the next general election comes along. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Are various student organisations such as the Overseas Students' Service organising distasteful demonstrations against our most distinguished visitor, the Prime Minister of Singapore,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew? Will the Minister reassure the Prime Minister that the majority of Australians are fed up with the regular disgraceful behaviour of a relatively small minority of students in this country? If it can be established that students from overseas are among those employing these hoodlum tactics, will the Government consider sending them home forthwith? Finally, do any of these student organisations receive financial assistance from the Federal Government? If so, will the Minister consider taking steps to cancel altogether this form of assistance if the students cannot observe decent standards of behaviour? 
I am concerned with the serious situation existing in the textile industry which appears to be getting worse. I am concerned specifically with the problem as it relates to the textile mills in Wangaratta, the largest city in my electorate. Of course, the Industries Assistance Commission is inseparably connected with this problem. The IAC must exist, but it must not govern. The problems that beset the textile industry generally reflect the problems that affect many of the manufacturing industries in Australia at the present time. I realise that the Government has serious problems in solving the difficulties in the overall situation, but the Government must govern and the IAC must not. Since the 25 per cent tariff cuts introduced by the Whitlam Government in 1973 and the decision in February 1974 to abolish import quotas on textiles, the textile industry has gone through the worst economic slump since the 1930s. The 25 per cent tariff cut was introduced at a time when exchange rate changes increased the value of the Australian dollar, thus making imports much cheaper. At that time also the GATT textiles arrangement, which depended on individual countries voluntarily reducing their exports, broke down in the cut-throat atmosphere of the general recession. Another important development was the start of wage rises, which almost doubled the industry's wages per employee. Not the least of the wage rises was the phased introduction of equal pay for women. At the present moment, in the woollen mills in Wangaratta 36c in every $ 1 earned from sales goes into wages. 
Industry leaders rightly point out that most of the raw materials used are readily available in Australia, that the industry is innovative, labour intensive and capital intensive in many of its sectors, and is as efficient as it can be, given the wage bills, short runs and market uncertainties with which it has to work. In the short time available to me I cannot go into all the details, ramifications and problems of the textile industry. But they are problems similar to those in manufacturing industry as a whole. The textile industry, an important defence industry and an important industry generally in regard to raw materials in Australia, needs urgently a positive statement of Government policy which will support the development of a viable textile industry in Australia. How can any textile company make forward planning when the Government implements this recommendation in the Industries Assistance Commission report of April this year: 
The measures proposed in this report are not intended to provide a basis for the longer term development of the industry. Accordingly it is suggested that investment decisions and other production or importing plans should not be based on the assumption that the levels and forms of assistance recommended in this report will continue. 
There is no way that Australia can compete with imports without an adequate degree of assistance through tariffs and quotas. This situation is not unique to the textile industry; it is a problem facing most manufacturing industries in Australia. When low economic activity is insufficient to utilise fully existing productive capacity, increased imports must result in a further decline in manufacturing in Australia. 

 -Mr Speaker, I think you dealt adequately- 
I wish again to speak about the effect that Industries Assistance Commission recommendations can have on a textile city such as Wangaratta. The largest textile mill in Wangaratta is Bruck Australia Ltd. There are 2 other substantial factories, namely, the Wangaratta Mills Ltd and Yakka Pty Ltd. They employ about 1200 people altogether. The comments I am about to make apply broadly to all manufacturing industries, not just the textile industry. The dependence of Wangaratta on the textile industry is such that, more than any other collective community in Australia, its fortunes are inseparably tied to the protective levels of tariffs and quotas on textiles as, I add, are many other towns and industries outside the capital cities of Australia. The textile industry maintains certain distinct characteristics which differentiate it from other industries. I mention several aspects of that industry. It has a high labour concentration with a high proportion of female labour. It has a high proportion of migrant labour. It has quite a high age structure for the operatives employed with a relatively low level of qualifications being necessary. It has a high dependence on decentralised communities. Finally, in the past and now, it depends on varying degrees of protection from governments. 
These characteristics contribute, in varying degrees, to the industry's current disability on an international price basis. But, at the same time, the industry also carries very great national and regional socio-economic benefits. The industry, being labour intensive, is admirably suited to the concept of decentralisation and regional development. In Wangaratta the establishment and subsequent growth of Bruck Australia Ltd has been one of the principal determinants in the growth of the city. It follows from this that there is a high correlation between the levels of textile imports and the economic and social wellbeing of Wangaratta. Bruck Australia Ltd, the largest producer of woven manmade fibre fabrics in Australia, has been Wangaratta 's largest single employer of labour for over a quarter of a century. At the present time Bruck employs one in eight of the work force in Wangaratta. The importance to the textile industry of the female work force in Wangaratta is highlighted by the fact that 26.8 per cent of females employed at June 1976 were textile employees. If there were no textile industry in Wangaratta, these women would be unemployed because no alternative employment is available. In regard to migrant labour, the employment at Bruck mills of people of non-English speaking extraction is 37 per cent. If one takes into account the other 2 textile mills in Wangaratta the migrant percentage in the textile industry there would be over 50 per cent. 
With those few facts, the implications of any IAC recommendations relating to textiles for a city such as Wangaratta become abundantly clear. If the textile industry is not to be protected, then unemployment must increase dramatically. What will happen to these jobless people in a place like Wangaratta? Do they move to the mythical areas which have the mythical low cost industries to which the IAC constantly refers but never specifies? I conclude by quoting some remarks made by the  chairman  of Bruck Australia in his annual report, and I agree completely with him: 
Unless Australians are prepared to accept a standard of living very much lower than we are currently enjoying, Australian manufacturing industry must be protected. We can enjoy the low cost products of low standard of living countries only if we are prepared to export jobs and create massive unemployment. 
I ask the Government again - 
... to make clear the importance of the textile industry to Australia and that it is determined that this industry will be retained. 
I apologise,  Mr Speaker. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and relates to AlburyWodonga. Where and when can details of the new designated area for Albury-Wodonga be obtained by the public? Are these new boundaries final or will people be able to register objections? Will those objections be considered? Has the Minister seen reports that people who wish to sell their properties will still be under a cloud? Has the Minister any comment on this report? Finally, what reaction has the Minister had from residents of Albury-Wodonga and from the States to the Commonwealth's proposals? 
-Mr Hayden went on to say: . 
I will adjourn the debate in a moment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I want to observe merely that even corporalshave their time. 
I cannot quite follow that. I am pleased, as an exmember of the Royal Australian Air Force and having had some association with the women to whom this amendment refers, namely, the members of the Royal Australian Air Force Nursing Service and the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force- who were known, of course, as the WAAFs- to support the amendment. I realise that time is precious and that this Bill is required to be passed tonight. But I want to say a few words along the lines that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  followed when he introduced the Bill on 26 August. 
I am pleased to support the amendment that the Minister presented to the House on that occasion. Briefly, the amendment means that former members of the Royal Australian Air Force Nursing Service and the WAAFs will be eligible for assistance under the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residence Act of 1953. It would be fair to say that this amendment is long overdue and is a belated recognition of the very important part played by members of the RAAF Nursing Service and the WAAF. However, I guess it is better late than never. It could be said to be an enlightened recognition of the equality of women in the Services. 
I am prompted to reminisce, as did the Minister, but due to the limited time available it will not be possible to reminisce about the 5 years I spent in the Royal Australian Air Force during the Second World War. During this time I had contact with members of the nursing service and the WAAF as they performed their duties. I speak from personal experience when I say that these women played a very valuable part during the Second World War and they shared with the servicemen the dangers, the hardships, the long hours, the varying degrees of comfort and fluctuating weather conditions. I can see the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr 
Graham) a distinguished former member of the Air Force, nodding in agreement. 
In addition, of course, the women shared the food which, for the most part, was prepared and presented by the kitchen staff as well as possible. But I can assure honourable members that it was of a standard which would have caused many complaints to be made, as you would know,  Mr Speaker,  if served in the dining rooms of this Parliament. I wager that the ex-servicemen in this House will never forget 2 very regular delicacies that were served up by the women in the kitchen, namely M and V, otherwise known as meat and vegetables and goldfish, otherwise known as herrings. They were part of a staple diet that we all enjoyed very much over the years that we spent in the Services. 
In conclusion, I say quite seriously that the women to whom this amendment refers played a magnificent part in all the ways I have mentioned. I have not mentioned the care of people wounded in combat or as a result of combat for whom the women of the nursing service were responsible. They played a magnificent part in all the ways I have mentioned and in some ways I have not been able to mention because of the lack of time. They fully deserve to be eligible for assistance under the provisions of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residence Act. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment. 
-In the 5 minutes available to me I want to say something about the Industries Assistance Commission and manufacturing industry. There is no doubt that the manufacturing industry in Australia, and especially the country's labour-intensive industries, are under serious threat and even attack from the IAC or certain members of that organisation. The IAC was established with the support of the main political parties, but with qualified support from the National Country Party, with the aim of presenting a more coherent approach towards industry development. However, in its annual report, the Commission pays scant regard to the effect its policies will have on the economic, social and physical well being of the people in the communities concerned. This is despite a specific request from the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  to the Commission on the content of the report, when he said:  the Government is concerned to ensure that its decisions upon assistance to particular industries are based upon the fullest possible information about the social and locational as well as economic consequences of adopting the recommendations of the IAC. 
The annual report of the IAC blithely recommends a sweeping, major restructuring of manufacturing industry. Resources are to be diverted away from high-cost industries towards industries that are more efficient in the Australian environment. But there is not one practical recommendation from the IAC as to how this may be done. 
It discusses at great length efficiency of industrybutnowheredotheCommissionersspellout theirmeaningofefficiencyortheirdefinitionof it.Theypointoutrepeatedlytheneedforindus trypoliciesthatencourageefficientindustries anddiscourageinefficientindustries.Theyadvo- catetheprogressivereallocationofresourcesin favourofthelessprotected,moreefficient,low- costsectionsoftheAustralianeconomyand awayfromthemoreprotected,lessefficientsec- tors.Itmustbeassumed,therefore,thathigh protectionmeansinefficiencyandlowprotection impliesefficiency.Whatanincredible proposition. 
I could name many industries that are dependent on protection but whose record is one of excellent productivity and maximum use of capital and labour resources. Yet these industries, because they have relatively high levels of protection, are classified as inefficient. There is no point in anybody saying that resources should be reallocated unless he says where they should be reallocated. Where and what are these new lowcost industries which, according to the IAC, are supposed to spring up? They seem to be mythical. There is no point in the  Chairman  of the IAC saying that it is not the Commission's responsibility to point out what low cost industries should be encouraged or developed. There is no point in saying that people can be retrained if no concrete suggestion is made. For what purpose can they be retrained? Where can they be retrained? There is no point in saying that industries should become more efficient. How can they, when efficiency itself is not clearly defined? 
It is this one sided approach of the IAC- this is not only my opinion; it is shared by many responsible and leading Australians in the industrial world- that is completely eroding any confidence that industrialists may have in investment in Australian industry. What is needed is a more positive approach with practical recommendations for a more efficient use of resources in a competitive world environment. We need long term plans from government to restore confidence in industry, to restructure if necessary, but at a pace and price which the community can afford. Above all, we need a policy that takes into account not only the effective functioning of manufacturing industry but also the well-being of the community as a whole. The  Chairman  of the IAC is reported in last week's news as saying that tariffs are escapist and that anyone who supported tariffs was guilty of escapism. All I can say is that many developed countries must be escapist. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Government have as one of its major objectives the encouragement and expansion of the manufacturing industries of Australia? Is it a fact that manufacturing industries provide many jobs and also provide jobs for many people other than those actually employed in those industries? Is it a fact that manufacturing industries are struggling desperately with high costs mainly because of the absurd wage levels in Australia compared with the rest of the world? Will one of the side effects of devaluation unfortunately mean increased costs of imported raw materials and plant for some manufacturing industries, thus offsetting many of the incidental extra tariff protections through devaluation? 
-Fancy hearing a member of the Australian Labor Party worrying about the country areas of Australia. This is the first time in 4 years that I have heard a member of the Labor Party express any concern for anyone outside the capital cities in this country. I am disappointed that the dme for which I am allowed to speak has been cut down tonight, but I understand the exigencies of the House. Mainly I propose to speak about the textile industry. At least the decision by the Government yesterday has meant that the textile industry has a reprieve, or a breathing space in which to take some advantage of the devaluation situation and the decision not to cut tariffs on textiles. But the battle for the textile industry is not over by any means. I know it and the textile industry knows it. 
The Bills which we are debating cognately tonight and about which I am given 10 minutes to speak embrace several Industries Assistance Commission reports. In the time available I want to relate my remarks particularly to the knitted and woven apparel report which was dated 20 April and which was released and approved by the Government on 9 June. It was reaffirmed by the Goverment in August. I intend to use statistics and statements that I believe to be correct. If the IAC or anyone else can prove otherwise, I will be very pleased to hear what they have to say. 
The announcement on 9 June of the implementation of the IAC report on knitted and woven apparel completely confounded part of the textile industry. In my electorate of Indi, part of the textile industry has been damaged very severely. At the Wangaratta woollen mills alone 1 10 people out of about 350 were sacked as a result of the report. The IAC, in its recommendations on textiles and in all other recommendations, must have regard for Government policy. The industry could not understand the paradoxical reaction of the IAC in first acknowledging in this report that previous restraint measures had been ineffective in overcoming market disruption and then recommending as a solution import quota levels that were substantially higher than those applying previously. We already import a much higher percentage of textiles than practically any other Western country. My information is that Australia imports 60 per cent of its textiles. Compare this figure with the United States, for example, where less than 10 per cent of the total textile and apparel market is available to imports, and Japan where only 20 per cent of the market needs can be imported. 
I shall take some figures from this report on knitted and woven apparel. In the section for knitted tops, the largest section- this section is typical of all sections under review in this report- the amount of imports for 1974-75 was 34.4 million units. The new quota level is 37 million units- an increase of 7.5 per cent. This is despite repeated statements in the IAC report that severe market disruption was occurring and that restraint action would be necessary to prevent further disruption. How can an increase of 7.5 per cent be classed as restraint action? This is the pattern right through the report. In section after section of the report the IAC found that market disruption was occurring. The phrase market disruption' is mentioned 62 times in the first 50 pages of the report. 'Market disruption' includes the 'threat' as well as the existence of serious damage. That is the IAC definition, not mine. What is the IAC solution- an increase in the import quota levels? Further, the report seems to have completely disregarded the submission by the industry. In the same example of knitted tops- and again this is synonymous with the other articles under review- the industry's request was for 20.5 million units to be imported. But what is recommended by the IAC and accepted by the Government? It is thirty-seven million units allowed to flood the market. 
Another error appears to be that the IAC overestimated the total market demand in Australia for knitted and woven apparel. In fact the industry's thoroughly researched submission on this point indicated that market supplies required for this financial year would be lower than those supplied for 1975-76. This assessment of expected market growth seems to have been disregarded by the IAC. The Commission's recommendations for higher tariff quota levels were apparently based on an expanding market which in fact is non-existent. But it is not only the important quotas that have caused the crisis in most areas of the textile industry. They are a very substantial added imposition on an industry that was already facing severe problems. Most of these problems started with the Whitlam Government's 25 per cent tariff cut across the board in 1973 which is generally regarded as the worst and most stupid economic measure ever perpetrated in the history of Australia. Further to that the Whitlam Government abolished import quotas in February 1974. The actions of the Labor Government were unbelievable; they were a really shattering blow to the textile industry. 
It seems that it is the opinion of the IAC that all industries that rely on a high level of assistance are inefficient. It is apparently of negative importance to them that the textile industry in Australia has always been dependent on a measure of government assistance, as it the case with many other industries in this country, not only secondary industries but also primary industries. Every developed country in the world provides much more protection for its textile industries than does Australia. We just rely on tariffs, and lately on quotas. The United States of America, Japan and the European Economic Community not only have tariff duties and quotas; they also have exchange controls and complete bans on the imports of textiles. These countries have far bigger domestic markets than we have. 
My time is running out. As I said earlier, there is an arrangement between the speakers taking part in this debate to limit their time to 10 minutes instead of taking the normal 20 minutes. I particularly want to refer to pages 3, 4 and 5 of this year's annual report of the LAC. These pages purport to be an expression of IAC philosophy. To me the words contained in these pages can be described only as an unsurpassed collection of vague statements relating to the transfer of resources towards low cost industries. 
I said earlier in my comments that I would be very pleased to listen to anyone from the IAC or anywhere else who could correct any statement that I can make tonight. The words on pages 3, 4 and 5 of the IAC annual report are so vague and theoretical that it is impossible to assess the judgment and wisdom of members and staff of the IAC. There is no point in the IAC saying that resources should be allocated if it cannot or will not say where they should be allocated. What are these new low cost industries about which the IAC talks? The IAC ought to stop writing vague statements. That body has a responsibility to name these low cost industries. The  Chairman  and other members of the IAC say that they do not have this responsibility. I say that subsections 22(1) (b) and (e) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act put the responsibility squarely on the IAC to name the low cost industries to which resources ought to be transferred. If the IAC cannot put up the list it ought to shut up and stop talking about the transfer of resources to low cost industries. Where are these low cost industries. I want them named; I want a list of them. I think that the Government ought to insist that the IAC put out a list of low cost industries that it has in mind. 
Before I conclude my remarks I want to mention 2 more matters. There has been talk about restructuring and retraining. I am glad to see that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in an interview reported in the Melbourne  Herald  of 10 November emphatically stated that this is not the time to restructure industries in Australia. How are we to face the people in the country areas such as Albury-Wodonga, Wangaratta and so on, and what jobs are we to put them into? I ask the Government once again whether it will make a more definite statement about the textile industry through the appropriate Minister who said in February this year that this is a significant industry. That is going a little way but it is not going far enough. I believe that the Government, through the appropriate Minister, ought to make a definite statement to the effect that it thinks that the textile industry in Australia is a vital and essential part of the manufacturing structure of this country and essential to our economy, particulary in the decentralised areas of this country. 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether he has noted a statement by the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation that the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation faces a cash crisis and will be out of money in a few days' time because of a delay in the signing of the appropriate financial agreement. Is this statement correct? If so, what action can the Minister take to remedy the situation? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Did representatives of the Industries Assistance Commission visit Wangaratta in the Electoral Division of Indi during the last few weeks. 
If so, was one of their purposes to ascertain the effect any tariff changes would have on the industries there. 
Were other purposes to ascertain (a) information about the social impact and (b) the effect on the economy of Wangaratta the tariff changes would have. 
4) Were there any other purposes for the visit. 
Who decided the people or organisations to be contacted in Wangaratta. 
Who did the representatives attempt to contact. 
7 ) Who did they actually contact. 
Who were the representatives of the Commission. 
What qualifications did they possess to enable them to assess and collect the required information. 
What job experience and/or educational standard do they possess. 
Did they try to contact people from Bruck (Australia), Wangaratta Woollen Mills and Yakka; if not, why not. 
12) In view of the general local knowledge that a Member of the Federal Parliament automatically gathers, will consideration be given to affording the relevant Federal Member an opportunity to make a submission to the Commission representatives. 
I direct my question to the Acting Foreign Minister. Is the Government aware that the Indonesian Government and its people are being subjected to a communist organised campaign to denigrate Indonesia in the eyes of the world? Is the Government concerned about this campaign? Have any members  of the Association of South East Asian Nations indicated any support for Indonesia in its actions on East Timor and its actions against communist aggression in our general region? In regard to the overall regrettable situation in East Timor, have any members of the Australian Labor Party, particularly the left wing - 
I have spoken on many previous occasions in this House about the continuing serious situation existing in the textile industry affecting as it does both natural and man-made fibres, and many thousands of people in country areas. I make no apology for raising it again. Honourable members will be aware that the Government has announced recently new and extended terms of reference for the Industries Assistance Commission when reporting on the various sections of the textile industry in September this year. I commend the Government on this action. It recognises basically the importance of decentralised industry. It indicates a much keener, if a little belated, appreciation of the need to examine fully the economic and social impact of any proposed changes to the textile industry. It realistically adopts a course that I have constantly advocated. But the IAC has a responsibility beyond the revised terms of reference. Under the terms of the Industries Assistance Commission Act, Part III, section 22 ( 1 ) (c) the Commission is required to: facilitate adjustment to changes in the economic environment by industries and persons affected by those changes . . . 
Up to date the Commission has done nothing to facilitate adjustment to changes. Instead, it has advocated a movement of resources away from high cost industries to so-called low cost industries. Where are, and what are, those low cost industries? Surely the IAC is side-stepping its responsibility under the Act when it refuses to nominate these industries, when it refuses to elaborate on how the industry should be restructured, when it refuses, in fact, to 'facilitate adjustment to changes', to use the words of the Act. 
Some regrettable restructuring is taking place- restructuring in the form of exporting jobs, of establishing industries in other countries. Faced with an unreasonable volume of imports and unrelenting rises in costs, more and more Australian companies- textile and manufacturing companies generally- are setting up plants overseas in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong, the Philippines and Indonesia. From the official statistics available, Australian manufacturing investment in the South Pacific has trebled since 1971 and the rise in manufacturing investment in Asia has increased eightfold. The Australian work force is therefore faced with a double squeeze. Not only is unemployment created but also the worker is faced with the ironic situation of increased competition from imported goods, made in Australian owned factories situated outside 
Australia, at a cost with which the Australian worker cannot hope to compete. 
The wool textile section of the industry is one area that is being very seriously disadvantaged by the volume of exports as well as by the radical changes that have taken place in the market for wool. As a result, many firms have been forced to close. Others have drastically cut back their operations. Some have started manufacturing offshore, and employment in this section of the textile industry has been halved in the past 3 years. The situation is even more regrettable when one realises the contribution that the wool textile industry has made in the field of research and technical improvements. The imposition of more reasonable import quotas more aligned to the domestic demand would give the textile industry a breathing space. Such a realistic and responsible approach by the Government would create a climate in which investment and employment opportunities would be encouraged. I therefore urge the LAC to make recommendations in the September report which will help the textile industry. I further urge the Government to avoid adopting any policy towards the textile industry which would lead to further phasing out of sections of the industry. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that large areas of Victoria and southern New South Wales are experiencing severe drought conditions? Is the Minister ensuring that the various State governments and the country people involved are getting all the assistance and co-operation possible from the Federal Government? Has the Minister had any request from the States for any special assistance, such as long term low interest finance, over and above the traditional arrangements between the Federal and State governments? Finally, in view of the fact that many of the farmers affected have also had very low returns, particularly from beef, over a long period, will the Federal Government be prepared to consider sympathetically any special request from the States? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Victorian Minister for Agriculture has this morning sent telegrams to Federal members of Parliament claiming that some provisions of the dairy industry Bills differ from what was agreed to by the Australian Agricultural Council? I particularly ask the Minister this question arising from the telegram: Were undertakings given that UHT milk would not be included, that any levy money collected would by returned to the State in which it was collected, and that table cream would not be a prescribed product? Will the Minister inform the House whether the nasty accusations made by the Victorian Minister are true or untrue? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were employed by the Industries Assistance Commission, or its predecessor, the Tariff Board, during each of the last 5 years. 
What were the (a) qualifications, (b) classifications and (c) capacities in which they were employed. 
What was the cost of (a) individual and (b) total salaries and allowances for each classification during each of those years. 
How many reports of the Commission, or its predecessor, were (a) finalised, (b) accepted, (c) rejected and (d) referred back to the Commission or its predecessor by the Government during each of those years. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, refers to the recent dismissal of 70 people by the firm of Sanyo Guthrie Aust. Pry Ltd in Wodonga. I have no doubt that the Minister has heard about this matter because I know that he takes a very keen interest in the AlburyWodonga growth centre. Is the Minister aware that one of the reasons stated for the dismissal was that the company's sales had been affected by imported television sets? Can the Minister inform me whether he has any information on this matter? Will he take all possible action to assist this important decentralised industry in the rural city of Wodonga? 
