I call the honourable member for Holt. I would remind honourable gentlemen that this is a maiden speech and I would ask that the customary courtesy be afforded the honourable member and that he be heard in silence. 
I ask the Minister for National Development to tell the House what action has been taken by the Government to plan the distribution of natural gas from the Bass Strait fields to New South Wales. Has the Government a pipeline policy? If so, has it indicated the route which the pipeline should traverse? Has any financial grant or subsidy been offered in connection with the pipeline construction? Does the Government intend to allow the distribution of this important source of energy to be determined by Esso-BHP without regard to broad national considerations? Finally, has the Government any plans for the distribution of natural gas from the Palm Valley-Mereenie fields in the Northern Territory? 
As it is now past the time provided for 
Grievance debate, Order of the Day No.  1  will be not called on. The  Clerk  will call on the next order of the day. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the widespread concern being expressed by all sections of the Australian people about the threatened further increase in the price of petrol, will the Prime Minister make an immediate review of legislation and policy factors which would make the increase possible? Because of the importance of the price of petrol to the lives of Australians, and particularly to the burden of costs on industry, and having regard to the generous contributions made to the oil search companies by way of subsidy, technical assistance- 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask the Prime Minister: Does he remember that following the 1964 Premiers Conference a Commonwealth-State Officials Committee was established to study and report on decentralisation of industry and population and that at the end of last year it had met on only 3 occasions? In May 1969 the right honourable gentleman, replying to a question asked by me, stated that the work of the Committee had now reached an important stage. I now ask the Prime Minister: How many meetings of the Committee have been held and when will the report be made available? 
The honourable gentleman will proceed. The point of order is frivolous. 
When the point of order was taken I was listing some of the efforts that have been made by other countries in changing their policies and why it is necessary for Australia to wake up to itself and change its policies with respect to primary industry. The price-cost squeeze - and this is only one of the factors with taxes - is becoming so important, particularly to medium and smaller farmers, that there is a limit to productivity increases and unless world prices rise it is obvious that the smaller farmer, despite his efficiency, will have to sell out of the industry because his net income is not enough. A small farm producer's wool1 cut per acre or wool cut per head may indicate that he is highly efficient. He may be highly efficient in terms of productivity per man hour or whatever criteria one takes. But his net income is simply not big enough, after his costs have been taken into account, to allow for replacement of capital or for him to give his family a decent living. 
Ohe can say, as I have said before, that the Government shows lack of leadership in primary production fields in refusing to solve these basic problems. Estate tax is not a basic problem. The basic problems are inflation, domestic growth and tariffs. Those are the things that the Government has to get at. The refusal1 by the Government to give positive leadership and its policy of encouraging the growth of secondary industry at the expense of primary industry are to be deplored. I shall give 2 examples of the Government's complacency. One is the savage drought in south-western Queensland at present. What is the Government doing about this situation? The only time we see Ministers in the drought area is just prior to an election. They seem to have forgotten the tragedy in western Queensland at present. The second example is farm costs and the manner in which costs are going up. These are 2 examples of the need for Government' action. The longer it refuses to give positive leadership the more will taxes like estate taxes burden primary producers. 
The Opposition supports the amendment. I hope that the Government will read the amendment correctly and interpret it in the manner in which it was moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. It is a constructive amendment and it should be treated in a constructive way. 
My question to the Minister for Social Services deals with the difficulties of living being experienced by aged, physically handicapped, sick and other needy Australians. I ask the Minister to make an immediate increase in the rate of pension payments because of the hardship being experienced by many pension recipients due to the continuing increase in the cost of living and the necessity to provide against the rigours of the approaching winter. Will the Minister show compassion by breaking with past practice in the timing of pension increases and act now to grant the necessary pension justice? 
The Opposition has no alternative but to accept the course indicated by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  We are placed in a position where we are unable at this stage to put forward the type of policy which we believe is necessary for the housing of the people of Australia. We are unable to widen the scope of the Bill. We have to accept the situation as it exists. For that reason I support the dignified plea and protest of the Opposition which has been made by honourable members on this side of the chamber. Surely this great human problem of housing ought to have roused the conscience and feelings of honourable members on the Government side. Certainly there can be no honourable member who has not been approached by his constituents pleading the need for money and urging the need to make representations for additional finance to be made available at the appropriate and satisfactory interest rate. This is true; yet we have an organisation throughout Australia - the credit union movement - which is playing a most important part in helping people in their campaigns of thrift to save money for essential purposes. But this Government, which has expressed its concern about growing inflation and says it sees the need to save and to stop wasteful spending, is not prepared to encourage the credit unions to make available the funds which should be made available for home building or for any other purpose. 
I believe that to become a member of a credit union is a badge of good citizenship and something which should be applauded by all honourable members. Yet the work of the credit union movement is spurned and disregarded by the Government. Instead of marshalling the resources of the credit unions and encouraging this important work of providing homes for the newly marrieds, for migrants coming into this country and for all of the people wanting to build this nation through building houses, as they must, the Government has remained cold and aloof from the human problem. I think that we ought to take every opportunity to accept funds from all types of savings organisations and to channel them into the building of homes in this country. One can offer credit to a government which proceeds with plans for home building and encourages people to save. But why should the Government close the doors upon organisations like the credit unions which are indeed making a significant contribution to saving funds and providing money which is necessary for the building of homes and establishing people in homes, as has been indicated previously by other honourable members who have spoken in this debate. 
The Opposition is distressed to think that at this time when so many homes are required the Government has failed to grasp this opportunity to collect the additional funds which could be made available to help overcome the great lag in the required number of homes in this country at the present time. I deplore the fact that people are compelled to go out to the fringe financial institution and pay  I2i%  and more for money for the purpose of building homes, causing great burdens to be placed upon them which they will be compelled to carry throughout their working lives. The proposal for the utilisation -of the funds of credit unions which was originally made by the Opposition could have helped to overcome these difficulties. I join with other honourable members on this side of the House in voicing the strongest protest and expression of disgust at the attitude of the Government in respect of this matter. 
Order! The honourable member should address his remarks more closely to the subject matter of the Bill. 
The Commonwealth's help is commendable because there is a crisis. It must be borne in mind that if there were not a crisis the Commonwealth would not be helping at all. But the Commonwealth should not think that because it has given some help the crisis is being solved. It is only being ameliorated by this assistance. 
The crisis will get worse because insufficient money has been given. This assistance will be over a triennium. The prospect of providing further assistance should be looked at before that period expires and a determination made of what is a fair proportion of revenue to give to the States to ensure that a Stale can build teachers' colleges to take all those wishing to become teachers, and to ensure that it can educate all youngsters. We should not have the position we have at the moment where the Commonwealth takes all moneys from the taxpayer and gives back only a certain amount to the States under the tax reimbursement formula, and where we then have to have this type of legislation, commendable as it is, to provide additional assistance. 
The crisis is getting worse. More money should be given. We cannot afford any further delay in having a survey made of how many teachers are needed and how much money should be given to them. One weakness in this sort of legislation is that the grant has been made for capital expenditure. No money is being given to maintain the colleges or to help pay the salaries of both teachers and trainees. Salaries will be another problem. If the States are to create more opportunities by granting trainee scholarships, they have to be provided with the money for the trainees and their teaching facilities. Additional funds should be given for that purpose and the grant should not be limited to capital expenditure. For those reasons, while one has to support the Bill because it provides a benefit, one at least makes the plea that much more serious consideration be given urgently to the needs of the teaching profession, particularly in New South Wales. 
Order! I ask the honourable member to write out his amendment before I call on the next  speaker. 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House' 
The Opposition wholeheartedly supports the irrigation project at Bundaberg. We hope that many more such projects as good as this one will be backed by. the Government. 
Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
In view of the Prime Minister's firm stand on the question of authority over and control of off-shore minerals I ask him to show a similar interest respecting petroleum products won from submerged land on the continental shelf. Because of the Commonwealth Government's acknowledged constitutional authority over minerals and petroleum products beneath the submerged lands of our continental shelf, will the Prime Minister take immediate action to settle the dispute regarding the price of natural gas which is delaying the distribution of this important fuel to New South Wales? 
Order! The Minister and the Leader of the Opposition would do better to conduct their discussion through the Chair. 
Referring now to another State, Tasmania, it is quite plain that the Liberal Government,  Mr Bethune's  Government, is committed to reducing the voting age. [ have no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition was quite correct in forecasting that in South Australia, under the new Administration, legislation to reduce the voting age is likely to be introduced. 
I want to mention if I may what steps have been taken since 1 took office to look into this question of the reduction of the age of majority not only for electoral purposes but for other purposes which are relevant to the Commonwealth's sphere of constitutional competence. Before the last meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General it became borne in upon me that any reduction by legislation of the age of legal responsibility in any field of activity - for instance, the field of contractual activity or the field of proprietary rights - would give rise inevitably to pressures for similar action in other fields in which the Commonwealth Government has a vital interest, for example, the voting age, the operation of industrial awards with the consequential effect of such operation on the economy, and the age for marrying without parental consent. 
The debate today is really a repetition of one that took place rather less than a year previous to my taking office. When J took office it seemed to me that it would bc desirable to examine in depth the implications, from the Commonwealth Government's viewpoint, of the moves which had been made and were being continued towards achieving an earlier age of legal responsibility. 1 look the view that this was a matter that ought to be looked at not only in detail but as a total picture, lt therefore appeared to mc to bc a good idea that an interdepartmental committee of Commonwealth officers should be established to examine the matter in depth and in detail. Accordingly, as a result of a recommendation which I made, which was agreed to by the Prime Minister, an interdepartmental committee was set up late last year. It consists of representatives of the Prime Minister's Department, the Treasury, the Department of Labour and National Service, the Department of the Interior and my own Department. That committee has mct and is at work. 
Honourable members will, 1 am sure, perceive when they come to consider the problem in the broad that each one of the departments of state which 1 have mentioned has a degree of responsibility and a very vital administrative interest in relation to any proposal for lowering in any respect the age of legal majority. The Go vernment's view, therefore, is that the work of this interdepartmental committee should proceed so that in due course its findings and recommendations will bc available for consideration by the Cabinet. It is the Government's view that the Cabinet or the Government will be better able to reach a decision which, as I have mentioned and as I wish to emphasise, will have far reaching consequences not only politically but in the field of proprietary rights and contractual rights and in relation to marriage. The consequences will be so far reaching that the decisions to be made ought to be made on full consideration of all the best available material from the people who are expert in this field. So - and I emphasise this - the Government's opposition to a second reading for this Bill is nol Founded upon any spirit of Abstractiveness. It is founded rather upon a desire thai the fullest consideration of all facets of this very big problem should be given before a decision is finally made at Government level. 
We must not overlook - this is a point that was adverted to in the 1968 debate - the implications of section 41 of the Commonwealth Constitution. That slates in substance that no adult who has a right to vote under the law of a State shall be deprived, having that right, of a vote in a Commonwealth election. This section raises a nice question as to the meaning of the word adult' in a document that has in .some measure to be construed in the light of the meaning of its language as understood by the people who framed it in 1901. However, there is a countervailing consideration to which ] referred when I made my speech in the debate on the second reading of the Leader of the Opposition's Bill in 1968, which is that when one is endeavouring to construe a written constitution one is permitted, consistent with the authorities to regard it as to some extent being ambulatory in relation to the meaning of its terms, lt is not easy to determine what is the meaning of the word 'adult' in this section of the Constitution. The difficulty of interpretation that arises would in turn give rise to very grave practical and administrative difficulties if we cannot achieve consistency and uniformity in the voting age on the level of all parliamentary elections in the Commonwealth. 
The matters to which I have adverted are the main points I wish to make. I would emphasise that in considering whether a piece of legislation should go through at a particular time it is important to consider whether enough thought has been given to all the problems involved. It is also relevant to ask oneself whether the measure - and here I refer to the proposals in the Bill relating to marriage - is of urgency in the sense that authority to implement it at this time is likely to give rise to substantial or, indeed, any hardship. As far as I am aware, and so far as my inquiries have been able to carry me, the provisions of the Marriage Act which prevent marriage being contracted by people who are under the age of 18 years except with the consent of their parents or guardians or of the court are not causing any hardship. 
The fact - if it be the fact, as I believe it is - that no hardship is being caused in individual cases is a point we ought to bear in mind in considering whether or not the House should give this Bill a passage without first looking at every ramification, so far as it is humanly possible to do so, of the problems which I have endeavoured to outline to the House. So I repeat, the Government opposes the Bill not in order to be obstructive but rather for the reason that a little more time in which to make up one's mind, one's collective mind, on a question of such importance as each of the questions raised in the Bill, would be better on a balance of all the considerations involved. 
I rise to express my indignation and utter disgust at the attitude of those who are responsible for controlling the affairs of this House - the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  and the Government Whip - for the manner in which they have repudiated obligations made to the House and members of the Opposition. A few moments ago the gag was applied when one of the supporters of the Government stood to speak in the debate which has just concluded on the second reading of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill. I had been promised earlier that other honourable members would be permitted to speak on the second reading of the Bill and take the debate to the Committee stage. 
This promise has been repudiated. It has been dishonoured. If the Government acts in this fashion how can it expect members on this side of the House or its own members to respond to promises made by those responsible for those controlling the Parliament? This is one of the most disgraceful happenings in the history of Parliament. Rarely do I speak on an adjournment debate but I do so this evening because I feel that the House has been reduced as a result of the conduct of the Leader of the House and of the Deputy Whip who moved the motion that the question be pui. 
The matter being debated concerned the establishment of a Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. It was a matter of great importance to all Australians and it should have been debated at length. The views of members from both sides of the House should have been heard on this matter for it transcends party considerations. It affects every person in the Parliament just as it affects every man, woman and child in Australia and as it will affect future generations of Australians. 1 deplore the conduct of the Government. I condemn it and I say to those responsible that they can expect a return of kind in relation to actions of this nature. I resent it, I condemn it and 1 deplore it. It is one of the most shameful things that has occurred in the history of the Parliament. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and I commend it to the Committee. lt will be extremely difficult to make the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation an organisation which will be able to play its part as an equal of other organisations in the wide world of business after the dismemberment of the Snowy Mountains Authority, lt forms just a part, a segment, just a small piece of what was once a great and wonderful organisation. Today we consider what is to become of it. how it is to function and whether there is to be a consultative committee. I think it is the responsibility of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to bring to the attention of honourable members just how this consultative committee, can render useful service, how it can obtain business, how it can promote the Corporation and how it can do a better job than the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority has been able to do in the past. 
If we read the reports of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority we will find chapter after chapter on the outstanding work that has been performed by this wonderful organisation not only in many parts of Australia but throughout the world. Will this consultative committee preserve the dynamic features of the Snowy Mountain Authority? From what the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating^ and the honourable member for Lang (Mr Stewart)  have said. I am convinced it will not. It must hamstring, restrict and tie up the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation so it will be less effective than the Snowy Mountains Authority has been in the past. 
I believe that the Government consciously and deliberately wants this to be so. It wants to put the brakes on the Corporation. It does not want the Corporation to be an effective organisation building its empire and eventually becoming, as we would like it to become, a great project designer and builder of water conservation schemes. This clause will indeed apply the brakes because a consultative committee has all the questionable features that should not be accepted. 
The honourable member for Blaxland pointed out the types of people who may be engaged on the consultative committee. I refer to people not concerned about the development of the committee, people with an eye on big business in other fields and people who perhaps have some ties with other commercial activities or engineering firms. They could be accountants or business advisers. Surely this is not what we want. If the Corporation is to be able to succeed in the way in which the Snowy Mountains Authority has been able to succeed in the past - it has been able to pay its way - it will return great dividends to this country in terms of dollars and cents. The Snowy Mountains Authority is bringing great wealth to this country from the water that it is making available freely to people in the areas served by the Snowy Mountains scheme. As its financial affairs in respect of the generation and sale of electricity have proved so eminently satisfactory, I can see no reason to depart from the basic structure which has characterised the activities of the Snowy Mountains Authority in the past. 
The proposed Corporation will be no more nor less than a prop for big business, an aid for big business, to be associated with big business so that big business, when involved in some situation, will be able to call on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to assist it to do a job of work to earn dividends for it. The work will not advance this nation's development projects but will merely provide gain for people who have vested interests. From my point of view, I find it extremely difficult to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. I believe that the Snowy Mountains Authority is doomed, despite our efforts and the constructive, creative thoughts we have directed towards making something out of this 
Authority. We are doomed to failure, and the Government has made up its mind that this will be so. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause1 7. (1.) Subject to this section, the functions of the Corporation are - 
the carrying out of investigations; and the furnishing of advice, in relation to water resources in Australia or elsewhere; 
the construction of, or the performance of any work in relation to the construction of, engineering works outside Australia. (3.) The Corporation shall not, in the exercise of its functions under sub-section (1.) of this section, undertake - 
the carrying out of an investigation; 
the furnishing of any advice; 
the designing of an engineering work; 
the supervision of a contract; or 
the construction of, or the performance of any work in relation to the construction of, an engineering work, except with the approval of the Minister and in accordance with any conditions to which the approval is expressed to be subject. (4.) The Minister shall not, for the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, give his approval in relation to the exercise by the Corporation of a function referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of sub-section (1.) of this section in respect of an engineering work in Australia unless the work is - 
a work for the measurement of the flow of water; 
a work for the collection, storage, diversion, conveyance or supply of water; 
a work for the generation, transmission or supply of electricity; 
a work which, or a substantial part of which, is underground; or 
a work (including a road) incidental to a work referred to in any of the preceding paragraphs of this sub-section. (5.) The Minister shall not, for the purposes of sub-section (3.) of this section, give his approval in relation to the exercise by the Corporation in Australia of a function otherwise than for the purposes of, or in relation to an engineering work that is to be carried out by or for, or by or for an authority of, the Commonwealth, a State or the Administration of a Territory of the Commonwealth unless the function is to be exercised in pursuance of a contract between the Corporation and a consulting engineer. (6.) Notwithstanding sub-section (2.) of this section, it is the intention of the Parliament that the Corporation may perform a function of any of the kinds specified in sub-section (1.) of this section in pursuance of an authority conferred on the Corporation by a law of a State, but the provisions of sub-sections (3.), (4.), (5.) of this section apply in relation to any such performance of a function by the Corporation. 
The contribution made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  was, as one would expect, disappointing. But we are certainly nol disillusioned. We expected the Minister to make such a statement because there is a watershed of fundamental difference between (he attitudes of the Australian Labor Party and the Government on this matter. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  clearly puts this matter into its correct perspective for the Labor Party believes in the establishment of a construction authority. We are not satisfied that there should be only a consultative body to gather information and furnish it to people who ask for it. This nation has immense problems: great jobs need to be undertaken for development. Just as the visionaries in years gone by saw the great problems of the Snowy and agitated for work to commence on this wonderful undertaking - work which was begun during the period of a Labor Government - so too today we on this side of the House see the challenges that exist in this country and the need to employ the skills of the work force of the Snowy Mountains Authority, the great team that has won world acclaim for its efforts, in the development of this country. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill establishes a restricted technical consultative Corporation. But this is not enough. This kind of organisation cannot achieve the goals that we feel should be sought at this time in the development of our continent. The Opposition is firmly committed to the formation of a national conservation authority. Without any doubt, in office we would establish such an authority. We would do this by retaining the skills that are at present available in the Snowy Mountains Authority. We would build this organisation to meet the great tasks that lie ahead. Our attitude is supported by people in all walks of life. Perhaps the greatest witness in support of a construction authority that we could bring to the attention of this Committee is none other than  Sir William  Hudson, the former head of the Snowy Mountains Authority, who did so much in the great physical development of this work and who, in addition, was able to sell this project to the people of Australia. On 28th March 1968 the 'Canberra Times' headed its editorial with the words "The Death of a Giant'. We do not want to see the death of this giant. We want the Snowy Mountains organisation to be kept intact as a construction authority so that public works in this country may proceed. An article in the 'Australian' on 19th October 1967 was headed 'We are too Smug, says Snowy Man'. That was a reference to  Sir William  Hudson. An article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 6th January 1967 was headed 'Engineers warn of Snowy Team's Break-up.' 
Those headings are true. Since the Government indicated that it intended to vacate this important developmental field the number of skilled personnel employed by the Authority has fallen each year. In 1966- 67 there were 71 fewer such employees than in the preceding year. In 1967-68 the number had fallen by a further 149 and in 1968-69 by a further 144. lt is circumstances such as these that irk and worry me. Members of the Country Party, including the former honourable member for Gwydir,  Mr Ian  Allan, have advocated the use of an authority such as the Snowy Mountains Authority. A newspaper article of 29th June 1967 under the heading 'CP Hopes for Federal Aid on River Plan' reads: 
Country Party backbenchers hope the Federal Government will provide some financial assistance in the Budget lo be brought down in August to help establish a Darling River Conservation Authority. 
I ask the Minister and the Government: Are there no great works we might undertake on the Murray and Darling systems? Think of the water that now pours into the sea from the Tweed, the Richmond, the Clarence and the Macleay Rivers on the north coast of New South Wales, devastating the countryside as it does, causing havoc whenever it rains and involving large expenditures of money in flood mitigation work. How wonderful it would be if this surplus water could be diverted to the western side of the Great Dividing Range, ls this not a challenge to be accepted by this Parliament? Surely this is one of the great tasks facing us. The Adelaide 'Advertiser' on 10th July 1962 contained an editorial headed 'Need for a National Water Plan'. Of course there is need for a national water plan. There is need for co-ordination of State and Commonwealth activity in this field. There is a responsibility on everybody in this country to harness our water resources for the development of this country. In its report dated 1 1 th December 1 945 on irrigation, water conservation and land drainage the Rural Reconstruction Commission referred to the need to harvest the waters of our southern rivers if our population is to grow to about 25 million. The report was submitted to the Honourable J. J. Dedman, who was then Minister for Post-war Reconstruction. Of course our population will grow, as will the populations of our neighbouring countries. There will be a hungry world to feed in the future just as there is today. Perhaps some enlightened government in the future will be prepared to do a little more than has this parsimonious Government, which gave a paltry $15,000 for the relief of devastated Peru, where 40,000 or 50,000 people lost their lives and where whole communities were wiped out. The Government's miserable attitude is reflected in its approach to the cause that we are now considering. The Rural Reconstruction Commission reported: 
In view of  the  vital importance of irrigation in the future of Australia's rural development, the Commission recommends - 
that the maximum economic development of irrigation should be regarded as a national objective; 
that an all-Australian co-ordinated plan for irrigation development should be drawn up in which the long-term needs should be carefully considered; 
that the survey of river catchments and the recording of river gaugings should be encouraged so as lo supply the fundamental data on which future satisfactory irrigation schemes may be based: 
that the methods of  distributing  and using water in existing irrigation schemes should be Mud icd so as to devise means whereby water may be more effectively used in  the  future than it has been in the past: 
Those recommendations have fallen on deaf ears since this Government came to power. i make this final plea at this requiem for the great Snowy Mountains Authority - at these death rites of the Authority - to the Government or at least to some Government supporters who will allow their consciences to be aroused, for this is no small matter. This is a major matter. Such people as Professor C. H. Munro have argued a case for the establishment of a Darling basin authority as a national undertaking. The Darling River gets its water from Queensland and New South Wales. There is a need for a national undertaking to examine these matters. An article in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 27th October 1967 was headed 'Snowy-size Plans needed on SMA.' An article in the same newspaper on 27th September 1967 was headed 'Retain Snowy Skills - Hudson'. An article on 26th September 1967 was headed  'Sir William  Hits Snowy Loss'. Those articles in the Melbourne 'Herald' support the arguments that we on this side of the chamber have advanced this afternoon. i can only hope (hat an annoyed community will take up the case that has been put to the Parliament by members of the Opposition. 
Amendment negatived. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
lt being I I p.m., in accordance wilh the order of the House of 1 6th April I propose the question: 
That the Mouse do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
[ ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation: When is a decision likely to be made on the Government's proposed plan to introduce pure jet air services to some country centres? Will the Minister say when a firm decision will be made as to which country airports are to be upgraded to take the pure jet aircraft? Finally, will the Department of Civil Aviation pay the cost of the essential work needed for the new services in view of the heavy burden of costs being borne by local government authorities? 
Because of the increasing cost of petrol and the menacing problem of pollution I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a report that a device has been invented which reduces by more than half the carbon monoxide fumes from motor vehicles and which thus reduces the pollution of the atmosphere. Does the Prime Minister know that a University of New South Wales traffic engineering expert and the inventor of the unit,  Mr Duncan  McWade  claim that the device cuts car r  costs by  almost  a half? In view of these important claims will the Prime Minister have the invention examined by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or another Commonwealth organisation with the object of testing the efficiency of the unit? If it reaches the standards claimed by the inventor and the University professor will he take action to provide funds for its production? 
I am disappointed that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who touched upon a number of matters affecting the rural economy and the people on the land, seemed to avoid the question of the sale of Australia's wool clip. If there is one question which is worrying people in Australia today - those on the land and those concerned with our economy - it is what price we will get for our wool clip and what are we to do about it. For 21 years coalition governments of the Country Part) and the Liberal Part)' have had charge o! our Treasury bench. Perhaps it is true that the Liberal Party is disinterested in and opposed to the man on the land, lt would appear to be so as there is only one backbench member of the Liberal Party in the House at this moment. If the Liberal Party feels this way about rural questions I would ask members of the Country Party to stand up and declare themselves on the matter of the sale of Australia's crops, including wool and wheat. What do they think should be done? They should make it clear to the Australian producers what they think should be done. I will say no more about it. 
This Budget denies justice to the mass of the people of Australia as it disregards the basic facts of supreme importance to the economic life of the nation. A fair deal is denied the pensioners and the families while prices continue to spiral uncontrolled bringing hardship and chaos to local government and to industry. When one looks over this Budget one sees that the record sum of $7,887m is levied from the taxpayers of Australia. Expenditure will be $7,883m which represents an increase of 1 1 .4% on expenditure last year. Primary industry is to get a token subsidy but the problems of the man on the land will continue unaltered. No action will be taken to solve them. Not one word is mentioned about that although action should be taken to ensure that those who work on the land get a fair reward for their services. Pensioners are to receive the shocking and paltry sum of 50c a week. War widows will be given the same shocking, scandalous and disgraceful treatment. 
There will be increases in taxes. The excise on petrol is to go up by 3c a gallon although by the time the petrol reaches the people the increase will be more than that. The price of wine will go up by Se a bottle as a result of the increase in excise of 50c a gallon. Duty on cigarettes and cigars has been increased by 50c a lb so cigarettes will be 3c a packet dearer. Tobacco will be dearer because the excise has been increased by 20c a lb. Postal charges also will increase. Stamps will go up from 5c to 6c and telegrams of 12 words will cost 48c, an increase of 12c. The telephone installation charge will increase from S30 to S40. Those who live in the country know how much greater the increase will be because they are required to erect telephone lines and to carry out quite a considerable amount of work. They have to face that cost as well as the proposed increased charges. Telephone rentals will increase. 
These proposals emphasise the Government's lack of concern for the people, the burden which will be placed on those in the country and the effect on the decentralisation of industry. These is no doubt that these steep increases in telephone charges and other costs will have an adverse effect on decentralisation which is one matter to which the Government should have given its attention. Instead of this upward sweep in charges there should have been a reduction for it is true that high telephone charges perhaps more than anything else are a deterrent to the decentralisation of industry. The motor vehicle industry will be affected by the increase in the price of petrol. Everyone in the country needs a motor vehicle of some kind. As well as the increase in the price of petrol there will be an increase in sales tax. According to one authority, our taxes will be the highest in the world. 
The Government boasts of having carried out an election promise to reduce income tax by 10%. What does that reduction mean? To the average wage earner it means a reduction of 60c or 70c a week but to the person in more comfortable circumstances it means a reduction of $7 or $10 a week. A person earning $2,500 a year will receive a taxation reduction of $32.90 whereas a person earning $10,000 a year will receive a reduction of $348.50. All of this emphasises the manner in which the Government has tackled the matter of taxation. The poor people will remain poor. Their lot has not been improved despite the fact that the Government has honoured its promise to reduce income tax at the fixed rate of 10%. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for I believe that it expresses not only the spirit of this House, although that will not be reflected in the vote* but also the spirit of the people of Australia. I believe that the shameful treatment of pensioners has caused a wave of bitter resentment throughout the land. The pitiful inadequate increase of 50c a week calls out for the strongest condemnation and censure. This is one of the great shames in the history of our Parliament. Is there no sense of justice in the Government? Surely the well of Government compassion must be dry if 50c is the most that can be made available. This is perhaps the blackest page in the history of this Government in this great affluent society at a time when record dividends are being struck. I have here a Stock Exchange document showing how company after company is earning record profits yet 50c is the best that can be done for the pensioners, the war widows and those who are in need. 
There is unrest and discontent throughout the land. People want action to cope with the problems facing this country. They want effective government They want a government which will govern and deal with the basic problems of this nation. They want effective and just arbitration in the matter of wages and salaries, not the irksome delays in hearing cases and handing down judgments. I refer particularly to the engineers case which was before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for 2 years. These men comprise the managerial class. They are the heads of government departments, main roads authorities, power stations and factories. They are the leaders of men but for 2 years their case was before the Arbitration Commission. Then the Public Service Board made a recommendation to the Commission and within a couple of months the Commission handed down a judgment in keeping with the Public Service Board's recommendation. The engineers, the men to whom we look to control industry, to give leadership and direction and to plan this country's affairs were treated in a shocking and shameful way. 
The people also insist on arbitration for the price of goods and services. Prices increase continually because they are uncontrolled. The system of arbitration which is recommended for the working people should also be applied to the fixing of the prices of goods and services required in this country. I believe that the trade practices legislation has failed in its purpose because manufacturers and wholesalers are acting in concert in the distribution of goods and in increasing prices in Australia. One classic case that came to my attention recently related to something which is used by every child and goes into every home - ice cream. All of the ice cream manufacturers increased their prices in concert. They all agreed to the same prices, not by accident of course but by sound planning. Action of that kind contravenes the very spirit of the trade practices legislation. 
If we are to have peace in industry and if we are to overcome the chaotic conditions resulting from rising prices and increasing unrest, arbitration in regard to prices or price control is long overdue. Is there to be a repetition of what happened recently when the great BHP organisation increased the price of its iron and steel products by some 3% and then within 6 months or so declared a record profit of almost $60m? Surely that is an incitement to those in industry to believe that they too should be able to declare what they regard as a fair reward for their labours. This is one of the disturbing factors in our country at the present time. The law of the jungle prevails: The weakest go to the wall. It is the responsibility of governments to exercise control and to adjust these matters in the interests of all people. 
Similarly, the oil companies dealt out their measure of justice to the Australian people by increasing their prices. There was an arbitration in respect of the recent lc per gallon increase, but over the years the oil companies have taken French leave in determining matters of this kind. Australians call for an end to this condition which inflicts great hardship on many citizens who must inevitably suffer because of these spiralling prices and costs. In many cases these charges are being imposed on people by foreign companies which are making record profits. The Australian people are the sufferers. How can it be said that while these companies make these record profits, it is fair to expect pensioners to be content with their additional 50c per week? We are told that there should be no complaint or protest about this. 
Prices control is needed now. The massive profits which have been made are perhaps a sign of bouyancy and perhaps are good for those who are shareholders. But this state of affairs is disturbing for those who are finding it increasingly difficult to live. I think that base metals ought to be controlled. Let us take the case of copper. When the copper mining magnates found it difficult to balance their accounts some years ago Australian taxpayers were obliged to pay tax to ensure that  a  10% dividend could be paid. Today when the price of copper, as recorded on the London Metal Exchange, is reaching record heights the whole of the Australian people who were taxed to maintain profits at 10% are called upon to pay the world's highest prices for copper. If it is good enough for us to be taxed to see that a dividend of 10% is paid, then in times of great price increases Australians ought to be entitled to some special consideration. I am tired of the plunder of Australia, this treasure chest, by foreign companies which owe little or no allegiance to the men and women who have made this country. 
The dear money policy is another matter which has caused great concern throughout the country. It has imposed increasing burdens on the Australian people. The increase in interest rates has been a grievous blow to home builders, lt has been a blow to people who require money for domesic purposes. This, coupled with the credit squeeze, has caused a downturn in home commencements. I have here a report compiled by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Service. These figures are of special interest for they deal with the number of the house and flat commencements at the June quarter of this year. They show total commencements to be 29,276. The number of people requiring homes at the same quarter was 81.617. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate the figures in Hansard. 
HOUSING COMMENCEMENTS 

<graphic href="069131197008274_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

HOUSING 
Applications outstanding with State Housing Authorities for houses (and flats) built wilh advances received under the 1965-66 Housing Agreement and other moneys. 

<graphic href="069131197008274_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

People who are saving to buy homes face great hardship. I believe that this debt load should not be imposed upon those who are doing the most important thing in this country - the making and building of homes. We have heard over and over again in this chamber of the difficulties associated with foreign ideas and foreign ideals. If this country is to survive, if we are to rise above these things, surely a good home life is necessary. The increase in interest rates leads to a crippling debt which must be met in monthly payments on loans for houses. If these debts cannot be met, people are obliged to have the periods of their loans extended. Some of my friends have had to ask for the period of repayment of their loans to be extended by 5 years. Those 5 years will extend into the period of their retirement when their earning capacity will have been diminished greatly. 
Before interest rates were increased, many home purchasers had budgeted to the limit to try to make repayments. The increase in interest rates is utterly callous and cruel. If the Government has some idea about trying to restrain the economy, to cool it off and to cause a downturn in some way, let it do so through the luxury industries. But let it leave houses alone, because houses are important to all the people of our country. I have here a letter that I have received from one of my constituents. I will not read the name of my constituent. Here is in part the plea of the woman concerned: 
Our living area is a garage 12ft x 23ft converted into two rooms with only a curtain to partition off the two rooms, for this, we pay $14 per week. 
At the moment, we have only one child, the second is due any day now. The double bed, cot and enough cupboards for all our clothes and such only just fit in the bedroom now, when the new baby arrives, the bassinette will take up all the walking space that is left, then, when the baby is too big forthe bassinette, and coming on to summer, the weather will be too hot to keep it in the bassinette for very long. . . . 
This is a sad and poignant story from an Australian mother about to give birth to another baby. Yet we increase interest rates to make it almost impossible for such people to get a home. These facts must be known to the Government. The'Sun' newspaper on 25th May 1970 carried this article: 
Where it really hurts 
The million or more people who read the "Sun" every day are under no illusions now about Sydney's homes crisis. 
The 'Australian' of 29th July 1970 headed its editorial: 
Fewer homes, higher costs. 
The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 20th May of this year stated: 
Dearer home payments 

 Mr Bury said the other day that it was necessary to raise interest rates because the Consumer Index of living costs had been going up at an intolerable rate. 
What a terrible thing this is. Fewer homes for more skyscrapers! The skyscrapers will go up because there are funds available for them. This is one of the great tragedies in Australia. We ought to be stimulating home building. There should be no curb on the building of homes in our land. 
I wish to refer now to a matter that is of concern to every man, woman, and child in this country. I refer to local government and the burden of debt which is increasingly adding a load to ratepayers. The local government of our country provides an outstanding service. Through local government communal facilities, parks, playgrounds, sewerage, roads, footpaths, day nurseries and libraries are provided. What is the sad story of local government? Since 1947 the Commonwealth debt has continued to fall. The State debts have increased by 400% . Local government debts have increased by 900% and semigovernment debts have increased twelvefold. This staggering financial burden being borne by local government is being transferred to the men, women and children in our community and is expressed in increased rates. I put it to the Government that it is about time that local government, which takes such an important part in the affairs of government in our country, was given its rightful role. 
In addition to having to meet the charges to which I have referred, local government authorities in New South Wales last year had to find $7.8m for the Department of Main Roads; $ 1,876m for the State Planning Authority and $ 1.48m for the Board of Fire Commissioners. In addition, the local authorities had to contend with unpaid rates on State and Commonwealth land. Added to their burdens they now have increased interest rates on their loans, further inflicting great hardship on all people who pay rates, those who are paying for their homes and those who pay rent. I believe that the work of local government in providing expanding services is something that should be considered by this Parliament. It is time that local government was given its rightful place in the trinity of government in this country. Local government should be treated as an equal. We hear complaints from the States about centralism. The States deal with local government in precisely the same way as the Commonwealth deals with the States. Local governments are the poor relatives who can get only the crumbs from the State and Commonwealth tables. 
I believe that the time has long since passed when the Commonwealth and the States should join with local government in an appreciation of all the problems and difficulties affecting our local councils and the job that they are doing for our people. I am pleased to note that the Leader of the Opposition in his speech on the Appropriation Bill dealt with this matter and suggested that the Commonwealth Grants Commission - which was set up to advise the Commonwealth on the fairest way to help the smaller States to provide services equal to those in the larger States - should now be asked to recommend the amounts of Commonwealth assistance to be granted to local government to enable it to do the important jobs which local government is called upon to perform. 
I should like to close my remarks in speaking to this Budget by referring to perhaps the most important people in Australia - 'the families. One cannot consider the families unless one considers the broad questions with which we have already concerned ourselves. I refer to prices, government policy and immigration. It is interesting to note that between 1961 and 1966 the population of Australia increased by 1 million - 487,000 coming from immigration - while the rural population of Australia declined by 65,000. The cost of immigration for the year 1968-69 was $61,835,007; in 1969-70 it was $67,925,000. According to estimates the cost this year will be $71,274,000. That includes the cost of the administration of the Department of Immigration and the bringing of migrants to Australia, lt has been suggested that the cost of each migrant is about $10,000. The costs of the Department from its inception until last year amounted to $ 15,000m. This is quite a substantial sum. I am not one who opposes immigration; I support immigration. I believe in building up the population of this country. I believe that people and water are vital ingredients in the development of this nation. We must have education. We must have industry. We must have technical progression. 
As we are aware, migrants have made a significant contribution to the growth of this country but it is time we looked at our own Australian families and did something more positive for them. The cost of rearing a child in this country until the child has reached working age is, according to the statistics, about $10,000 which includes the provision of food, clothing and education. However, child endowment, which is paid to mothers, is hopelessly, shockingly and scandalously inadequate. It does not meet the needs of today. The fact that the Government has been content to allow it to remain at an unsatisfactory level is sufficient reason for condemnation of the Government and of this Budget. In 1968-69 child endowment payments amounted to $l87.9m for 3.7 million children from 1.701 million families. The maternity allowance paid in 1968-69 amounted to $7. 96m. These sums might appear to be very large amounts but 1 say to the Parliament that the matter of rearing families is of vital concern to this nation. 
Of all the people suffering from the uncontrolled price squeeze the hardest hit are perhaps the families who are struggling to live on one pay envelope. I pity the mother with a big family who is compelled to remain at home, unable to go out and get a job, and who tries with all her might and main, to send her children off to school as tidily dressed and as well cared for as are children from other homes. 1 plead with the Government to take a realistic view of the problems facing the family, because the families are the future of this country. If we neglect them we will certainly neglect them at our peril. 
This Budget should be rejected. It denies justice to pensioners and families. It does nothing to halt rising prices and it adds to the crippling burden of costs, new taxes and charges, thus placing intolerable stresses on all sections of the Australian community. The poor people will be poorer because they will be compelled to pay more, while local government authorities will languish, crippled by the new taxes, costs and charges. 1 support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Sitting suspended from  12.48  to  2.15  p.m. 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister in a position to say when legislation will be presented to Parliament to give effect to the recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference for a single authority to administer the marketing and distribution of the Australian wool clip? Will the Minister make it clear now that wool will not be sold below the cost of production but so as to provide a fair profit margin for the growers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. In view of the importance of a national energy policy to Australia and having regard to the huge cost involved in the introduction of nuclear power into this nation will he refer this subject to a select committee of the House for investigation and report? If the Minister will not agree to the appointment of a select committee will he say why he refuses to adopt this course? 
Order! There is no valid point of order. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Health by reminding him of my numerous letters concerning a decision of a panel of 5 doctors at Springwood, New South Wales, to withdraw from the pensioner medical service in protest against his Department's restrictions of pensioner treatment. In view of the anxieties and distress being caused to a large number of pensioners, will the Minis tt re-open negotiations with the doctors in the hope that procedures will be adopted to overcome the present dispute and to assure continued services to age, invalid and other pensioners? If the Minister is not prepared to take this course, what action does he intend to take to provide medical service to pensioners of the lower Blue Mountains of New South Wales? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of each conservation project (a) commenced, (b) approved and (c) for which funds have been sought in each State since the beginning of the National Water Resources Development Programme. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The average weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, willever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the Prime Minister refers to the plight of a needy section of the Australian people. I ask the Prime Minister: Does he intend to accede to the humanitarian plea made by a responsible group of citizens for the introduction of a little Budget so that a substantial increase may be made to pension payments and thus to remedy a serious injustice to the needy, aged, sick and other pensioners who find it difficult to live on present pension payments? 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
But I now turn to a synthetic textile manufacturer in Japan and it is interesting to note that in the period 1965-66 the profit rate of this firm was expressed as a minus percentage. From February 1966 to January 1967 it was 3 per cent and in 1967-68 it was again a minus percentage. I think that quoting these figures explains a lot of things about the use of wool in the 2 countries which I have given as examples. But I think a lot of research needs to be done in Australia and overseas not only on the selling and manufacturing of the finished article but on precisely what is happening in the textile field right from the wool shed - the sheep itself, if you like - until the finished article is sold to the public somewhere overseas. I hope this would be a job for the Commission, to analyse completely the situation of textiles throughout the world and to see exactly what wool's place is in the world today. 
From memory, I think wool represents only about 8 or 9 per cent of total textiles throughout the world, but it is a tremendous fibre and I have no doubt whatsoever that it will be a fibre that will be wanted in the world of tomorrow. It has always been wanted and, I feel, always will be wanted. With the higher standards of living which we see throughout the world today obviously more people will want better clothes, and what better clothes could one have than clothes made from wool itself? There have been a lot of arguments put forward over the years as to why wool fluctuates in price. These are perhaps fairly good arguments but as far as I am concerned they have never held water - not many of them anyway - because every time in the history of the Australian wool clip that some measure of control has been brought in such as a reserve price scheme or any other price measure at all, this has stabilised the position of wool and brought it up to a reasonable price. All the woolgrowers of Australia are asking is that they have a reasonable price for their wool. 
It is very hard to understand overseas textile manufacturers trying to destroy - and that is exactly what they are trying to do - a great industry such as the wool industry because it cannot possibly function with the prices that it is receiving today. Why these manufacturers should be trying to do this I do . not know, especially when some of them are making the large profits I have illustrated, and there are plenty of these very profitable woollen textile manufacturering firms throughout the world. But here we have examples of the profits they have ma4e. I only wish I could have obtained figures more up to date than those which the Library has been able to supply me with but I understand that these figures are very hard to find. I understand that one of my colleagues may have some later information in regard to 1 country. 
I hope that the Commission does take it upon itself to make a complete study of the overall situation not only here but throughout the world and I would criticise the Australian Wool Board for not playing a greater part in this and making public from time to time precisely what is going on in the world in relation to textiles. I have said previously in this House, and I will repeat it, that the research and promotion into which we have poured millions of dollars - not only the Government but also the wool growers - is of little use unless it is combined with research into marketing. No other commercial business or organisation would think for a moment of putting so much money into research and promotion without looking at its marketing proposals. It has been proven beyond doubt that although the money that has been poured into research may have benefited somebody it certainly brought the wool grower to his knees. Therefore the three, marketing, promotion and research, must be combined. 
If some of the millions of dollars that have been spent on the promotion of wool had been spent on marketing we might have been a little further ahead today. I am not saying that promotion in industry is not necessary, but much depends on where and how one promotes a product. I think I am right in saying, as I have said before, that the Australian Wool Board is not looking in the right direction in relation to this question. However, I do pin my faith in this Bill, on the powers of the Commission and on the members of the Commission and their ability to do this job, because if they are no good or do not know their job, regardless of who they might be, then they will not be able to do the job which I envisage they should be doing. 
The Minister has seen the requirement within the industry. He has brought this legislation forward very quickly, considering the time slot and the complexity of the legislation itself, but now I would say to him, having got the Bill into the House, that when he does in fact get the Royal Assent to it he should go full speed ahead to get the Commission set up immediately because the industry is in dire straits and needs a floor put under it to stop it moving down any further. I have no doubt that the Minister will do this as soon as possible. I repeat that it is a tragedy to see a great industry like this torn apart internally in the first place and then by other very big organisations both overseas and in Australia which, when the Government last tried to do something about the position a few years ago and also in 1951, turned loose a machine of money and propaganda which completely confused the growers, mainly those in New South Wales. It is interesting to note that at the moment the New South Wales growers are the most adamant that something should be done. All this has happened before and perhaps the growers will not forget in a hurry the experience of the past of their own industry tearing itself apart and the experience of those people who poured out propaganda against this great industry. I hope the growers will back-up this Bill, turn it into an Act and get it going with a good Commission to administer it. I have no doubt that given these powers and with future experience the Commission will do a good job. I have mentioned that there may need to be some amendments to the Act because there are elements within the industry now that do not like this term 'flexible reserve price'. But as I understand it this flexible reserve price is now a policy of both South Africa and New Zealand. If we adopt that policy we will be in line, if we can use that term, with our colleagues in this industry in these 2 countries. We have worked in double harness previously in a scheme like this, but because the reserve price is flexible it does not mean to say that it is not solid and this is up to the Commission and the way they run the system, There are other opinions that growers should have more representations on the Commission. That may come about; I do not know. The main thing is to have a good, solid Commission with a good working base, which the Government will give it through this legislation. The Minister said in his second reading speech that there will be no limitation on the money available. So the Government is backing this plan, and it will go forward. The Commission must have some backing if it is to operate effectively. The implementation of this legislation will, I have no doubt, set the wool industry on the return road to prosperity. 
Order! The honourable member's information is most interesting but I think it is somewhat wide of the Bill. 
Departmental classes cater for a small proportion of these . . . Present classes are not matching the numbers of recent arrivals. 
I point out to the Minister in case he has forgotten - and it is a long time since this Bill was first introduced - that this Bill has a very real relevance to teaching migrants to speak English and classes are to be set up under this legislation for that precise purpose. Professor Connell said, further: 
In 1966-67 the average enrolment in all courses was 19,390 and Australia's intake of nonEnglish European-born settlers was 44,690 . . . In 1968-69 enrolments were 20,668 and the country's intake 61,296. 
These are enrolments in courses where migrants learn to speak English. So about one-third of those coming in each year who suffer from an inability to- speak English actually take advantage of the opportunities extended to them. The Professor also said: 
It appears that the language problem is steadily slipping backwards. 
What is wrong with the courses? The fact of the matter is - and surveys have shown this - that migrants do not last long at the courses for reasons best known to themselves. In New South Wales in the period from October  1968  to October  1969  a total of  19,915  students enrolled in evening classes and there were  17,959  abandonments. We are told that many attend once or twice, that half spend less than  2  months with the courses and three-quarters give up less than  5  months after commencing. It is estimated that less than  10  per cent of the yearly intake of migrants needing English instruction actually complete the courses. 
Then there are these special problems referred to by the honourable member for 
Grayndler concerning women and their unpreparedness to learn the English language. There is a need for special orientation, lt has been suggested by speakers at immigration conventions that morning classes should be initiated to encourage women to participate; that women teachers should be introduced into the system; that there should be husband and wife teaching teams and that migrant couples should be encouraged to participate in these courses. It is also suggested that there should be intensive courses and that these should start, first of all. in the home countries before the migrant comes to Australia. As 1 have mentioned before, it should be a condition of migration that the courses should continue on the ship and then in the hostels for some months after arrival. While migrants are in a hostel, possibly sacrificing their employment, they should be given financial assistance probably by way of the payment of unemployment benefits so that they will be encouraged to continue in these language courses which, in the end, will bring such a considerable benefit to themselves and to Australia generally. 
I was also interested in the remarks of Olive Nichols, District Inspector of Schools in the New South Wales Department of Education. She said that in New South Wales 32 per cent of migrant children - almost 1 in 3 - in the total school population have language problems. This, of course, is a crisis of great magnitude. She pinpointed the crisis as being mainly in Sydney, Wollongong, Canberra and Newcastle and, to some extent, in other capital cities as well. Se pointed out that mildly intellectually handicapped children number some 30,000 but the next category of special needs in this country so far as education is concerned involves the 16,452 migrant children in New South Wales and a similar proportion of the school population in other States who have language problems. We are obviously doing insufficient about this problem. My colleague the honourable member for Grayndler has mentioned how the circumstances of a migrant child affect him in his English speaking ability at school. The amount of English spoken at home is clearly a factor. The proportion of these migrants who speak English at home all the time amounts to only 4 per cent. Those who speak English most of the time amount to 11 per cent, those who speak English at home sometimes amount to 43 per cent and those who never speak English at home amount to 42 per cent, lt is interesting to see what happens to the ,- ...... - , School progress is average for 33 per cent, below average for 48 per cent and poor for 63 per cent. I think this underlines the importance of ensuring that migrant children and their parents are given the greatest possible encouragement to learn the English language. 1 think there are lots of ways in which this problem can be assailed. 1 agree with the honourable member for Grayndler that we. need a comprehensive programme of migrant education. I think we need adequate facilities and capital equipment, including buildings and I am not sure that the Government will go far enough in respect of these things. There is already some speculation around the lobbies that the subject matter of this Bill, the migrant education programme, might become one of the first casualties of the Government's antiinflationary measures. We are told that some SI 6m might be expended over the next 4 years if this programme is fully implemented. Quite frankly, I think the programme is so recently contrived and thought out that we will have great difficulty in obtaining the skilled personnel and the resources to fulfil the programme and doubtless this will be used as an excuse to curtail the proposed expenditure. But 1 would not be surprised if we have it curtailed for anti-inflation reasons. I would like to see the special facilities and the capital equipment which have been referred to by the honourable member for Grayndler provided. 1 think there are lots of other modern and contemporary ways of doing it. 
We ought to have radio stations whose programmes are specially devoted to this purpose having regard to the magnitude of the problem. In the United States there are 5.201 radio stations and many of them devote their programmes to education purposes and to migrant education purposes. Some cities have 50 radio stations. There is not a shortage of frequencies in Australia. The only inhibiting factor is the unwillingness of the Government to invoke some of these new techniques which would enable migrants to be educated through radio programmes. This is the only real obstacle to migrant education that we have in this country. I am interested in the remarks of Professor Parish of the University of New England who said: 
By the Australian Broadcasting Control Board yardstick for the Atherton Tablelands-  because there are 20,000 people in radio stations - 
. the Sydney Metropolitan Area-  which is the area in which there is the highest incidence of migrants who need this kind of special instruction -   . . should have 100 licences. 
What is there against making available special radio facilities to assist with the education of migrant children and adult migrants? I think it is time that we went even further and undertook what is being done in the United States, where special television facilities are made vailable, and in the United Kingdom, where 25,000 parttime students are to be educated at an open university in this specialised field. 
I say to the Minister that if the problems are of such a magnitude we should smarten up and get some modern ideas. If the migrants are to be located in our great cities such as Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong, in view of the shortage of teachers and the inability of this Government to provide the buildings and capital equipment which are so essential in migrant education, there is no reason at all why further radio stations and television channels should not be made available for this programme. When considering the benefits which we derive from our migration pro gramme I sincerely hope that we will look more positively towards giving the assistance which is so necessary in this programme. I have been told that in the last  6i  years Australia has recruited by way of migration 1,400 medical practitioners, 1,600 senior students, 4,000 engineers, and 3,500 architects and surveyors. Within a period of  6i  years 36,000 professional workers have come to this country to settle. That is an impressive figure of  9  per cent of all immigrant workers in Australia. Our rich intake of quality justifies strong support for the migrant education programme. 
Although I am impressed with the fact that after this long period which has elapsed since the introduction of the migrant education programme and the fact that it has languished for such a long time we are now starting to do something about it but I believe that what is proposed is insufficient. I believe it is necessary for this Parliament to consider seriously the amendment moved by the Opposition that the Government should make available buildings and capital equipment which are so essential for this programme. I particularly commend the proposition that we should invoke new techniques and use the mass media by way of radio and television facilities to give the migrants the educational opportunities which they so desperately deserve. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Reid)  adjourned. 
In view of the brevity of the statement made last evening by the Prime Minister I ask the right honourable gentleman: Does he now intend to present a supplementary Budget to remedy the grievous hardships being experienced by many pensioners, victims of the cost price squeeze? If the Prime Minister does intend to take this humane and necessary action will he have regard also to the needs of families by substantially- increasing endowment payments? 
The nation should grieve that after 21 years of Liberal-Country Party government pleas such as those that have been made in this chamber today are now required to be made for the men and women who have served this country so well on rural holdings, maintaining the economic life of this country, in this instance 1 think that the saying too little too late should be repeated. Rural construction is a term used by many but there is very little to it. The Commonwealth Government has left most of the details to State authorities. 1 wrote to the former Minister for Primary Industry seeking detailed information in regard to the activities of rural reconstruction organisations but I was unable to get it. The new Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  promptly wrote to me giving as much information as he was able to give. However, the information he gave was too sketchy. Tt did not deal as thoroughly as one would expect with the problems of the man on the land - the areas of aggregation, what can happen to family groups, and so on. The position of people who live in the country is long overdue for correction. There are depressed conditions throughout the country but this Government has over the years remained unmoved. I can only hope that perhaps by the pleas that have been made today more positive action will be taken to overcome rural problems. The honourable member for Maranoa  ('Mr Corbett)  quite rightly referred lo the difficulties- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The time allotted for the debate has expired. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
Thai these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That an additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Stale school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended lo include all the country's physically and menially handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Slates for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
It is a paradox that in this, the driest of the world's continents, we should be considering flood mitigation, what we are to do with surface water, how rapidly we can discharge surplus water into the Pacific Ocean and, furthermore, why we should be content with a consideration  of the problems of flood mitigation only on the eastern coast of New South Wales and why this study and consideration should not be extended to the other river systems' of New South Wales and, if other States will cooperate, of the other States of "the Commonwealth. I want to pay a tribute to one who deserves to be acknowledged, who was perhaps mainly responsible ' for the adoption of flood mitigation work on the north coast of New South Wales., I refer to a former honourable member for Cowper, 

 Mr Frank McGuren, because it was through his constant advocacy, persistence, constant representations, speeches in this place and uflagging zeal in talking about these matters, that the Government finally in a time of crisis was compelled to take action. 
I can recall that the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate),  the honourable member for Cowper of that time,  Mr McGuren,  and I journeyed to the north coast to the area of one of the most terrible floods that had visited the coast of New South Wales. It was in May 1963. For some days great volumes of water had built up over the coastal plain, flooding out farms and vegetation, destroying crops of all kinds, washing livestock out to sea, devastating the countryside in a shocking and horrible fashion and bringing great hardship upon the people of that community. Following our return from a visit to the area pressure was exerted upon the Government of the time to take action because the tragedy was so great - this was acknowledged - on the north coast and the central coast of New South Wales. The Press also supported the representations made on our side of the House that the Commonwealth Government and the State too should join with the progressive local government governing bodies in providing funds to meet this situation. 
I join with other speakers in expressing words of appreciation', to those county councils such as the Macleay River County Council, the Tweed Shire Council, the Richmond River County Council and local government bodies generally for what they have done in planning this flood mitigation work, trying to overcome the immediate question of draining water off their lands to the Pacific Ocean. Even at this time, when it Hoods, water covers considerable areas of the countryside. That is not to say that a tremendous amount of work has not been done.  1  pay a tribute to those responsible for their thoughtfulness and leadership, and for planning for each river system the type of work that is required to overcome the immediate problem, either by cleaning out the river system, altering the banks of the river, building up levees or building and cutting canals out to sea. These county councils have done much to mitigate the damage df flood. 
As far as the Bill in concerned, flood mitigation works means works tor the purpose of reducing the likelihood or mitigating the effects of flood. I should like to think that our thoughts on this subject would go far beyond the limited requirements of the Bill itself. I should like to think that the proposal of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for a wider consideration of this matter would be adopted. I should like to think that in this country, where we need to preserve and store water, action might be taken to deliver water to drier areas and thus mitigate the damage caused by floods and help to overcome this problem. But the history is one of the rapid drainage of water to the sea. 1 was somewhat disappointed with the remarks of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  this afternoon. He failed to pay tribute to his predecessor. It would not have been a great sacrifice on his part to have done so. He would not have given away anything. Back in those days when the campaign for flood mitigation was being fought here in the Parliament the then honourable member for Cowper,  Mr McGuren.  moved an amendment in relation to the Advance to the Treasurer, proposing that the estimates for the Department of the Treasury be reduced by 1 as an instruction to the Government to make an immediate grant on a fi for 1 basis with the New South Wales Government for the urgent and imperative work being carried out by the county councils to mitigate and control the frequent disastrous floods in the northern rivers of New South Wales in order to preserve the valuable production of the great north coast farming areas and to prevent the heavy economic losses which follow these floods. 
This motion was supported by members of the Australian Labor Party, members of the Opposition, and we brought to the attention of the Parliament the great damage that was being done and the need for action, whether it be in the sense that was put forward in other days by a former honourable member for Cowper,  Sir Earle  Page, who advocated a gorge scheme and the storage of water to be delivered to other places or whether it be the sort of scheme that has come to be accepted. Whatever it was, it was an earnest approach to a great challenge to the people on the coastline of New South Wales. 
When from time to time these cases were being presented the Opposition found that members of the Government were not sympathetic. I think of the words of the present leader of the Australian Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  These are his words in reply to the Labor Party proposal: 
When the honourable member for Cowper rises in this chamber and says that the Commonwealth should enter this field, he is only trying lo create a diversion. He is trying to pass the buck on to the Commonwealth Government, although this is a State responsibility. What is the difference between the State undertaking flood control and building dams such as the Glenbawn dam and the Keepit clam? 
The Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for Richmond, would have no part of that proposal. He said: This is not a matter for the Commonwealth Government; this is a responsibility for the State Government of New South Wales'. Let us be done with this matter. Let us be fair to the former honourable member for Cowper. Let us be fair to MrMcGuren. Let us give credit where credit is due. Let us end for all time this churlishness of wanting to sneer at and deride someone who has made a signal contribution to the development of this country and to the people of the north coast of New South Wales. It is important to remember that following a parliamentary visit to the north coast in 1963 and our persistent motions subsequently, legislation finally was introduced on 5th March 1964 and it received royal assent on 23rd April 1964, despite the fact that the Leader of the Country Party had said earlier that it was not a Commonwealth responsibility. It was a case of the people of the north coast of New South Wales winning a significant democratic battle because they had a member in this Parliament who was prepared to speak for them and to play a vital part in developing this country. 
The proposed legislation takes the situation a step further. The initial legislation concerned 6 rivers on the New South Wales coastline and involved the expenditure of about $5m. This legislation provides for $9m to be spent over 7 years on 11 rivers on the eastern coastline of New South Wales. This is to be commended. It is necessary. There is need to help those who are prepared to help themselves. All honourable members are familiar with the devastation and tragedy caused bv Hood and the misfortunes of those people who are subjected to recurring floods which come with regular monotony and regular disaster. AH honourable members know of the great losses to the dairying industry and the vegetables, fruit and pastures on the river systems. Flooded rivers, when they change course, tear out great stretches of the alluvial Hats, occasionally deporting the soil on other land but frequently carrying it out to sea. Floods cause severe damage to roads, railways, telephones and electricity services. These facilities are all victims of uncontrolled flood. It is up to the Parliament to give more thought to what can be done about the tragedy of Hoods. 
In proposing an amendment the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has suggested that members of the House should engage in an examination of the question of flood disaster and flood mitigation. He has proposed the appointment of a committee to investigate this matter. Is this not a reasonable suggestion? Surely it is the responsibility of members of the Parliament to look carefully into questions of this kind and not to accept existing conditions as the ultimate. Whatever has been achieved up to the present time, much more requires to be done. The honourable member for Dawson has. quite rightly, referred to the east coast of New. South Wales but my mind turns to the areas west of the Great Dividing Range where, because of the flooding of the western rivers, many areas are flood bound and people are suffering tremendously because of the lack of flood mitigation work and because the Government has failed to harness, store and control water. The basic consideration should be what can we do to control water in this dry continent. What can we do to conserve water? What can we do to distribute water? What can we do to make the best possible use of the water? 
The proposal that a committee should be appointed by the Parliament to look into this subject should commend itself to every responsible member of this chamber. On this occasion members should forget narrow party lines. We should be looking at the major question which is affecting the people of this nation. Of paramount importance is the inadequacy of water in one place and the surplus of. water in another. There is a necessity to store water. All of these questions should receive close attention by members of Parliament who have been sent here by their constituents to deal with such questions. Surely honourable members accept the fact that there is need for action in this field and that such action should not be limited to the eastern coastline of New South Wales but should be extended to include the overall problem. 
The present subsidy to some extent is meeting the requirements of those engaged in flood mitigation work. A S2 for $1 subsidy is provided for the river systems with the exception of the Hunter River where the subsidy is S3 for $1. This is a reasonable proposition and it has been accepted, but I am not content with this type of flood mitigation. We must go far beyond this and 1 should like to think that a plan would be developed for the purposes of: diverting water from the river plains on the eastern coastline to other areas where it is required. I was pleased to note that this legislation contains provision to enable the extension of mitigation work to other river systems on the coastline of New South Wales The Hawkesbury River has been included and during the life of this legislation some $2,060,000 will be used for flood mitigation undertakings on the Hawkesbury, Colo and Nepean rivers. The Windsor, Colo, Baulkham Hills, Penrith and Camden councils will contribute to this worthwhile project. I believe that consideration should be given to the manner in which our river systems are used and also to the way in which land abutting and in close proximity to the river systems is used. At times I am somewhat concerned that contractors can remove great quantities of gravel from river plains, thus weakening the banks of rivers and helping to create dangerous situations. This is an aspect to which a committee, such as is proposed by the honourable member for Dawson, could give consideration. 
I believe that the Parliament is accepting to a greater extent than ever before a responsibility for seeing that action is taken not only in respect of flood mitigation and reducing the likelihood of floods with their disastrous and damaging consequences but also in overcoming floods. In a Bill of this kind, limited as it is, I cannot put forward proposals that I should like to submit to the Parliament. I should like to propose a wide ranging national conservation authority which would have regard for all water that is precipitated in Australia - water that is urgently required in some parts of the Commonwealth. Such water would help to provide life-giving properties to some of the driest parts of Australia. 
As far as it goes this Bill meets the requirements of many people. I can only hope that those engaged in local government will find the measure acceptable to them and that the measure will provide the additional finance that they so urgently require. I hope that the Government, despite the assurances given by the honourable member for Cowper, will have another look at the Nambucca River to see if it is not possible to provide funds so that this river system, too, can receive the assistance required for a practical programme of flood mitigation. Surely the fact that the Nambucca people have not the resources at this time to match the Commonwealth and State in their grants should not deny those people the opportunity of having necessary work done on the banks of the Nambucca River to preserve that area. I support the broad principles of the Bill but feel that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson goes a long way in dealing with the question that this Parliament ought to be considering, the investigation of an outstanding issue concerning floods in this country, the need to look after people who are suffering the effects of floods and the mitigation to the fullest extent of the very great disasters which occur. 
I ask the Prime Minister to tell the House what action he intends to take to give effect to the timeworn election promises to decentralise industry and population in Australia. Does the right honourable gentleman intend to await the final report of the CommonwealthState officials committee which, I may add, met only three times in 6 years to the end of last year, or does he intend to initiate measures to disperse industry and to encourage this process by reducing country telephone charges and abolishing the payroll tax on country industries? 
Order! I think that the Minister might proceed to discuss the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Is it the wish of the Houseto proceed to the third reading forthwith? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr ARMITAGE (Chifley)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to prepare and present a paper setting out the (a) costs, (b) prices and (c) profits of each section of the (i) rural, (ii) extractive and (iii) manufacturing industries for the latest year for which figures are available and for each of the previous 10 years. 
Can he also supply details of each Australian industry group where prices are determined by companies, cartels and associations, such  as  the London Metal Exchange, and by international agreements, as is the case with certain primary products. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. So that he will understand my question, I will preface it with a reference to a Press release by the Minister for the Army on 18th March in which it was announced that the Australian Army is to begin phasing into its range of infantry weapons this year a new light machine gun. Is it intended to manufacture this weapon at the Commonwealth Small Arms Factory at Lithgow, which has an enviable record in precision engineering and efficient weapons production? Because of the splendid production record of the 
Lithgow factory and the importance of self-sufficiency in military supplies, I strongly urge the manufacture of the gun at the Commonwealth's factory. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order) It is now15 minutes to 1 o'clock and in accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling)  (12.12)- 1  wish to raise the question of the congestion in the high frequency radio spectrum and put the case of the people in the far outback areas who depend on the Royal Flying Doctor Service, not only for urgent medical treatment but also for communication with the outside world generally. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in  1965  a meeting of the International Telecommunications Organisation was held in Geneva at which it was decided to standardise throughout the world a single side band radio instead of the double side band radio. Australia agreed to this change and also agreed that the changeover should begin in  1970-71  and be completed in  1973.  The changeover is being made on a world-wide basis as a means of relieving congestion in the high frequency radio  12669/71-  R-m  spectrum and, it is believed, should result in improved services in the outback posts. 
I have been informed by representatives of the Pastoral Association of West Darling that the first changeover from a base station was proposed to take place from Broken Hill in the middle of  1971.  This would be followed throughout Australia through the Flying Doctor network. However, ] am now told that owing to the hostility generated by the direction of the Government to make this changeover, and its refusal to grant any subsidy to the financially hard-pressed graziers to make the changeover, this date is now very much in doubt. It must be remembered that for many people in the pastoral areas this radio system is their only means of communication. Between  4,000  and  5,000  medical consultations are carried out monthly and between  18,000  and  20,000  telegrams are sent each month throughout Australia by this means. In addition, there is the School of the Air to be considered. Everyone knows how important the School of the Air is in education in these outback areas. We also have the problem of the secondary school students having to leave boarding schools and undertake correspondence courses because of the financial circumstances of rural industry. A double side band set costs approximately  $300  and a single side band set approximately  $1,000,  a difference of  $700  per set. Because of the economic plight of primary producers, many of whom are woolgrowers in areas serviced by the Royal Flying Doctor Service, many would be unable to bear the cost of conversion which, as I have pointed out, is estimated to be approximately  $700. 
I cannot understand how this Government can claim it tries to assist the primary industries when it deals out this kind of treatment. If a grazier or some member of his family has a chronic medical complaint the afflicted person has to travel from areas hundreds of miles north of Tibooburra and Bourke to Sydney and Adelaide for specialist treatment. I have been told that some people in these areas often have to make such trips monthly. This involves not only extra travelling expenses but also extra accommodation expenses. Yet these people are allowed no taxation deduction for these extra expenses. They often have to travel to towns such as Tibooburra, 
Bourke and Cobar to obtain provisions. Surely these must be the most remote and highest cost areas in Australia and yet for taxation purposes the people of these areas can claim only the zone B allowance, while people in places like Mount Isa, with its beautiful lakes and nice country, can claim the zone A allowance. This is very unjust. Is it any wonder that I have been continually presenting petitions with thousands of signatures asking that the matters of the zone allowance and the extra medical expenses be looked into? Of course, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  whose electorate is also covered by the flying doctor network, has had many petitions presented to him as well. 
Why should the Government take away the only means of communication for these people? It must be remembered that when decimal currency was introduced the Government granted a subsidy for the conversion of accounting machines. The Government bore the full cost of converting new machines and a proportion of the cost of converting old machines, the proportion diminishing as the age of the machine increased. Of course, the consideration there was that the Government was dealing with big industrialists, mining syndicates and, of course, the trade union movement which would be prepared to take some direct action if its members were treated in the same way as the poor unfortunate graziers in the flying doctor area are being treated at the present time. It is time that this Government stopped talking about what it intends to do for the grazier and took some definite action. Surely it is not too much to ask that after 6 and 7 years of drought these people be allowed some subsidy to cover the cost of conversion of the double side band to the single side band radio service. Surely it is not too much to ask that they receive some consideration in regard to their travelling and accommodation expenses incurred in travelling to the cities for medical treatment. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I ask the honourable member for Angas to withdraw that remark. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
 Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I join with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who led for the Opposition and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  in expressing my strongest condemnation and disapproval of the manner in which Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) are being debated on this occasion. I feel certain that the whole community would feel a sense of outrage if it were to know that the provisions of Supply Bill (No. 1), covering expenditure of $1,219,758,000, was being discussed in this chamber at this time, especially when one considers the time that has been spent on matters of perhaps trifling importance, matters that could perhaps have been discussed better at some local public place and that this document, which involves the financial structure of the Government, the spending of public money, the economic strength of the nation, and the purpose and direction of Government policy is being considered at this time. This to my mind is an affront to honourable members as it is an affront to the people of Australia - the taxpayers - because this staggering sum of money deserves greater respect and greater consideration than it is likely to receive at this time and in this atmosphere. 
I am attracted to a number of questions that arise from the Supply documents. But how can they all be discussed? One should like firstly to deal with the question of the cost-price squeeze, a matter which is affecting every man, woman and child in this country. The cost price squeeze is a matter which, because of its severity, is bearing with great pressure upon those who are subjected to the various means tests and those on restricted incomes. It affects those who are unable to obtain pensions, superannuitants, those who are receiving assistance in many forms, pensioners and families. All of these people are carrying a great burden in regard to cost but there has been no positive measure on the part of the Government other than restrictive proposals by which it has endeavoured to create some measure of unemployment to deal with the problem of costs and prices in this country. 
One would expect the Government to deal with this question in an overall way. One would expect it to deal with every aspect of the economic life of this country commencing from the very grass roots, the depths of the mines, the ores and minerals that are needed, the coals and shales, the deposits of bauxite, copper and nickel and all of those other things that make the economic life of this nation. It disgusts me to think that the Government seems to be concerned only with the question of wages and salaries and is unable to consider the other aspects of prices and costs. It is quite obvious to me that the thoughts of the Government run along the lines that if pressure can be applied to those in industry to cut back in employment and if unemployment grows, those people who are fortunate enough to receive a pay envelope will be more compliant and will be more anxious to listen to reason in industrial matters. 
I have in my hands an article that appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 30th March this year. The article is headed: 'Unemployment no counter to inflation - Arbitration Commissioner's warning' and it states: 
Commonwealth Arbitration Commissioner  Mr T.  C. Winter yesterday warned against the temptation 'to increase unemployment artificially as a counter to inflation. 
The Commission was quite proper in drawing attention to this matter for there seems to me to be no doubt at all that the Government is hell bent on pursuing this course. The report continues: 
Professor Kenneth Galbraith - had recently pointed out that only an intolerable level of unemployment and idle plant capacity arrested the inflationary process. 
Even so, the temptation artificially to cause greater unemployment to correct inflation is a weevil that seems currently, if not constantly, to burrow in the minds of some people,' Commissioner Winter said. 
Those comments ought to be heeded; they ought to be listened to by everyone in authority. I think it is scandalous, disgraceful and intolerable that with all of the demands on our manpower for the development and essential growth of this country and also in planning the economy there should be any unemployed people at all. Every hand in this country should be engaged in essential development work. Of course the great lack in this country, and particularly in respect of the Government, is of a planning policy. The Government has no policy to deal with our great metal and mineral resources. It has no price policy for our metals and minerals other than to obtain the highest possible price on the world's markets. It is content to accept in this country prices fixed through the London Metal Exchange for the commodities sold there. 
Recently we debated a related matter in this Parliament but I do not intend to refer to it now. While the International Tin Agreement was being debated it was stated that the overseas price of tin had risen substantially. Has any honourable member thought what that means to the people of Australia? Have we organised our industries on the basis of what will happen in London? Surely there is a responsibility in Australia to fix prices here which will relate to the Australian  economy and the development of our industries. That is true of iron, coal, tin, nickel or copper. Our home and export industries should be so organised that those people engaged in processing our own resources will have some knowledge of what prices are likely to be. But under this Government nothing like that is likely to take place. It is long overdue. In considering our economic growth we have to get right down to basic matters of that description. This Government offers no hope that such a course will be followed. 
I can only hope that in the foreseeable future a Labor Government will take office to deal with these matters and to plan wisely in the marshalling and utilisation of our resources and the processing of our metals so that we can build up great manufacturing industries capable of setting an example to the people in this region. In addition, it is necessary to give leadership to those people whose circumstances are less fortunate than our own. In doing that, naturally the wool industry would receive attention, but under this Government's policy it is dependent upon what the world is likely to pay. How can we hope that in future a better price will be obtained for wool in view of present circumstances? We have accepted any price that overseas people have been prepared to pay. Only recently, since the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission has there been any steadying influence on wool prices. I was not surprised to read in Sydney newspapers that some of the Japanese textile producers in spinning and weaving some of the Australian clip are making annual profits of up to 90 per cent. This is a staggering profit out of Australia's giveaway fleece. 
Surely in Australia our manufacturing capacity should be increased so that we can process our wool for the good of our people. We should be able to sell woollen cloth and garments on the Australian market so that woollen products are not sold only in the very exclusive salons for the highest possible prices. While wool is at its present price it ought to be generally available in all the shops. A glorious opportunity should be available not only to satisfy our internal market but also to seek out new markets and to enter into greater competition with our wool on the world's markets. My mind goes back only a few years to the time when we had to fight even to have the wool scoured and washed in Australia. There was great objection to it being done here. We were exporting dirt as well as wool and the idea of processing wool in Australia for the making of rugs, blankets, tweeds and so forth was laughed at. It was said that this could not be done in Australia and that we needed the mists of Scotland or somewhere else to enable the production of rare types of woollen garments. Of course, we have proved to the world that we can do these things, but we must expand. We must not be content with this sort of development. 
These matters have a bearing on another matter that should receive further consideration. It is a subject to which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  frequently refers - the problem of our balance of payments and our position internationally. From reading the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  I find, among other things, that the defence services vote for the 5-month period is $488,362,000. What a staggering sum this is. I do not question the spending of money which is necessary for the defence of Australia. It should be spent if it is providing adequate defence for this country. But surely inquiries should be made into the spending of such a staggering sum. We should know how it is being spent and just as during the Second World War we had the War Expenditure Committee probing matters of this kind I believe that today there should be a defence expenditure committee to examine the expenditure of vast sums like this. That committee could have looked into the purchase of the Fill aircraft and other weapons of war. It could also have been asking why necessary defence equipment that can be made in Australia is not being made here. 
Our aircraft industry has been allowed to languish. 
Not long ago I asked about the Government's intention to phase in a new light machine gun for the Army. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  recenty made a statement indicating that this course was to be followed. In a question to the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  I pointed out that this weapon could be made at the Commonwealth Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. Those who are familiar with the capacity of the factory and the skills of the workers there know that the factory has an enviable reputation for the production of guns and weapons of various kinds - the Vickers, the Bren, the FN rifle, the Belgian rifle, and the Fabrique Nationale which was produced on licence at the factory and which has been an outstanding success. These achievements should not be overlooked and we should not be spending money in the United Kingdom on the purchase of rifles or machine guns when these weapons could be made in Australia. I have referred to the importance of their manufacture here on many occasions and I should like to think that the Government would heed my pleas and expand our defence production capacity and employ Australians to undertake these important works which are so essential to our defence. In times of emergency we should not have to rely on the importation of weapons which should and can be made here. 
In the brief time remaining to me I should like to refer to one or two other matters, including the difficulties of local government. The Commonwealth Government seems to have ignored local government which undoubtedly is carrying one of the greatest economic burdens of this country. Local government has the responsibility of providing essential services for the migrant intake and the growing population of Australia, but despite all the pleas that have been made over the years for help for local government there has been little response on the part of the Commonwealth Government. It airily brushes this matter aside. It says: 'This is a matter for the States'. It leaves it to the States. I put it to the Government this evening that finance for local government is clearly necessary and that assistance should be provided directly to local government. It should not be left to the States to please themselves about apportioning the moneys which they receive from the Commonwealth. These funds should be given directly to local government. The provision of services by local government is well known to honourable members. It provides recreation facilities, swimming pools, athletic areas, parks, playgrounds, and welfare programmes for youth and the aged. The establishment costs of all these facilities help the national economy. They help to settle migrants in this country and develop this nation. 
Those of us who have heard recent debates on pollution and the difficulties in the big cities must appreciate the fact that there is urgent need to move great numbers of people from the overpopulated cities like Sydney and Melbourne and give them an opportunity to live a better, healthier and happier life in country com.munites. These things are unquestioned. All that is needed is a government with the will and determination to do something about the situation. Financial assistance for local government is essential. If we are to overcome our economic problems, this is one of the most urgent issues facing this country today. I should like to think that funds will be provided. I have here numerous communications from various councils such as the Penrith City Council, the Blue Mountains City Council and numerous shire councils complainng of the intolerable burden being borne by local government. When one looks at the figures of government debt one immediately finds that although the Commonwealth debt has been almost held, if not reduced, from 1947 up to the present time, State debts have increased 4 times from $2,044m to $8,830m, semi-government debts have gone up 12 times from $4 19m to $5,21 8m and local government debts have gone up 9 times from $141m to $l,389m. These figures prove beyond any shadow of doubt what great burdens are being borne by local government. 
I have here a document prepared by the Legislative Research Service which deals with one or two specific cases of the increase in rates in the country and the city over recent years. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the 2 sheets in Hansard. 

<graphic href="072131197104293_105_0.jpg"></graphic>

In conclusion I make an appeal to the Government to have regard to the needs of people in their local communities, to give assistance to local government and to help the development of this nation. 
I ask a question of the Treasurer. Will he give sympathetic consideration to the financial , burdens borne by parents and the next of kin of lifetime invalids for whom they have accepted the responsibility for their maintenance and  wellbeing? Will the Treasurer take action to allow such expenditure as a deduction for income tax purposes? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! The honourable member will cease interjecting. 
Commonwealth or State governments; it is entirely the fault of the management of this company. In 1968 the company was a viable company. It has now got itself into trouble and big brother, the Federal Government, has come to its assistance. I am quite certain that the Minister for Primary Industry only has 2 ears and he could not have heard what I said then because of the musical chairs that is being played on the other side of the table. I am trying to direct a question to the Minister and now the Deputy Government Whip- 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. Honourable members will help the honourable member for Dawson, if they cease interjecting. 
Sitting suspended from 11.30 p.m. to 12 midnight 
Thursday, 6 May 1971 (continuation) 
The Opposition does not oppose this measure in the 'sense of opposing the whole concept. All we are asking is that it be deferred. Surely the Government cannot use the Commonwealth tax payers' money, public funds, and to provide an interest bearing loan to a State, to a private company, or a co-operative company, if you like, when the essence of the problem has been bad management. If the Government does that I can assure it that when something happens to the sugar mills in my area, I will be making representations to the Commonwealth for a loan. Every saw mill, every mining company and every business has full rights through the member in the electorate to approach the Commonwealth on the same principle. I am very pleased to see that the Prime Minister is here. I think the Bill sets a very dangerous precedent, and I hope that the Minister will accept this amendment. It will not have any effect at all on the distribution of this money at this point of time because all we need are simply the reasons and the justification for this measure. But what I object to - I think every member of the Parliament should object to it - is that this crisis was known on 31 December last, 4 months ago; yet the agreement was not signed until yesterday, and the Bill was not introduced until 1 o'clock this morning. The Minister cannot correlate those 3 points. If the crisis was known in December, I would assume that the Cabinet made a decision before the money was made available. Why was this Bill not introduced into the Parliament early in the proceedings? Why was the Press statement not made? 
Friday, 7 May 1971 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds thai the Geneva Protocol does nol prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Order! It is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House. The debate on the motion is interrupted 
Motion (by  Mr  Peacock) agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
The Opposition rejects national service, but realising its forlorn hope of electoral success has introduced this Bill to provide alternative civilian service and to amend existing provisions relating to conscientious objection. As to alternative civilian service, conceptually the Opposition has not demonstrated the justification for its proposals. Present facts rebut any suggestion of widespread non-compliance with the National Service Act. These facts have been made clear. Equally, it appears improbable that a civilian alternative would be generally acceptable to men who may refuse to serve. Technically the proposals do not meet the fundamental criteria of constitutionality, conformity with international conventions which Australia has ratified, equity in relation to serving men and the need not to undermine the basic purpose of the present national service scheme, which is to provide the Army with the number of men required and, of course, with the range of skills needed. 
On the question of conscientious objection, selective objection is unacceptable to the Government both in theory and in practice, a conclusion confirmed by a decision of the United States Supreme Court earlier this year. As to the determination of conscientious objector cases, the need to change the present procedures clearly is not- established and the Opposition proposals would, indeed, be less advantageous than those presently existing. In summary, therefore, the Bill is totally unacceptable to the Government, believing, as it does, in a strong defence capability and, at the same time, accepting that there are those in the community who conscientiously object to military service and whose position should be recognised as, in fact, it is under the present provisions. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Com- monwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does nol accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensu; of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I ask: In view of the desperate financial plight of many people in country districts due to disastrous economic conditions, will the Minister now take positive action to establish industry and provide employment for those seeking work in these areas? Will the Minister tell the House what action he intends to take to implement decentralisation of industry, and whether he has any plans to halt the flow of people from the country to the State capitals and seaboard cities and towns? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What sums of money have been paid to Vladimir Petrov and is he at present receiving payment from the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
In regard to (a) the Commonwealth Railways and (b) each of the State railway systems can he state what was the (i) total debt as at 30th June 1971, (ii) amount paid in interest for 1970-71, (iii) rate of interest, (iv) extent of increase or reduction in capital debts during 1970-71 and (v) total value of assets as at 30th June 1971. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
How many post offices (a) were closed in each State during the last 12 months and (b) will be closed in the near future. 
asked the Postmaster General, upon notice. 
How many country telephone lines up to a radial distance of 15 miles have been constructed and maintained by his Department since the revised policy was adopted towards the end of 1970. 
How many applications for this type of service are at present outstanding in each State. 
What is the total mileage of telephone lines (a) completed and (b) waiting on the implementation of Government policy. 
I direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the disastrous condition of a number of primary industries and the Australian economy I ask the Acting Prime Minister in his capacity of Minister for Trade and Industry to tell the House what action the Government is taking to deal with the trade problems which will follow the United Kingdom's decision to join the European Economic Community. If a policy has been formulated will the Minister treat this question as a most urgent matter? Will the Minister afford honourable members an opportunity of discussing the policy when it is determined? 
ls it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Scholes's)  be agreed to. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Austraiian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid,, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlements  of - their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In the course of his remarks the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  mentioned that $225m will be borrowed from the Treasury in the course of the next 12 months. This basically is one of the problems besetting the Postmaster-General's Department. It is one of the evils in the present financial arrangements, a situation whereby the taxpayers of Australia have money taken from them through taxation and then the same people who pay the taxation are obliged to borrow that money back from the Treasury for the purpose of promoting a Commonwealth instrumentality. This is an evil. This is something that is wrong. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I had been criticising the practice of Australian people having to pay interest on their own money which was borrowed from the Treasury by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I think it will be agreed that the Australian Post Office is a public organisation on which the taxpayers' money can rightfully be expended. This was the conception at Federation. This was the belief of Australians in the early days of the development of this nation when it was necessary to communicate with the various parts of Australia. But in more recent times a sophisticated approach has been adopted and today the Australian people- 'the taxpayers of this country - have their own money taken from them by the tax gatherer and it then goes to the Treasury. In turn the money is passed to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The amount this year is $255m. The people of Australia who have to post letters, who need a telephone and who must send messages by telecommunications axe obliged to pay interest on the money borrowed from the Treasury - money which is in fact their money. 
One depressing aspect of recent times has been the deterioration in the service given by the Postmaster-General's Department. It lacks the proud reputation of other days. In some communities where once 2 mail deliveries were made each day there Ls now only one mail delivery. In other places there has been a rationalisation in postal deliveries. In an area in my own electorate every person signed a petition objecting to the rationalisation programme which meant that letter deliveries would be made from the adjoining and bigger town and instead of these people being able to receive their mail before 9 a.m. they would receive it somewhere about 2 p.m. This is the jet age. This is the nuclear age. This is the age in which we can send men to the moon. We can do all sorts of fanciful things but in the simple matter of communications within a nation we find that this sort of depressing situation exists. Despite the most vigorous representations made by me and the petition signed by every resident in that area nothing has been done to alter the situation. 
In addition, mail deliveries have been affected in many country districts and instead of mail deliveries 3 times a week they are now made twice a week. All this seems to stem from the unhappy financial arrangements where costs and prices have skyrocketed and spiralled and charges have been increased. The people in country areas in particular are paying the penalty for these conditions. These people are also affected by the increased telephone charges. Charges have been increased in every facet of the Postmaster-General's Department, such as postage stamps, telephone charges and the installation of telephones. These charges have over the years continued to increase and correspondingly the quality of the service given by the Department has deteriorated. I asked of the Postmaster-General how many post offices had been closed and how many would be closed in the immediate future. The Minister replied that in New South Wales 59 had been closed and 12 would be closed; in Victoria 72 had been closed and 11 would be closed; in Queensland 21 had been closed and 14 would be closed; in South Australia 30 had been closed and 6 would be closed; in Western Australia 10 had been closed and one is to be closed; in Tasmania 16 had been closed and 11 are to be closed. The closure of these post offices is most unfortunate because it damages the quality of the service that has been given by this Department. I do not want to cast any reflection on those people associated with the Department who have to work to a very strict budget. They are obliged to measure the amount of money they have; they have to economise and they have to try to stay within the amount of funds they are allocated. I pay a tribute to the officers generally in the Department for their civility and courtesy in dealing with members of the public, including members of this Parliament. These men should be praised for their efforts and I do so in this debate. 
But these words are not sufficient. More must be done. I have been appalled at what has occurred in recent times and I refer to the position where people are unable to get a telephone installed, particularly those people who are in urgent need. This is a public service which is so much a part of the life of the people of this country today. These people invariably are given the reply that an extension is unavailable due to a lack of plant and equipment. Why should this be so after all these years? Surely this Department is able to measure up to the growth of our communities. This Department should be aware of the development that is taking place. Surely it is aware of the massive profit that is being made by the private company which is installing telephones. This service ought to be provided by the Department without any trouble whatsoever. After all, the more service there is the greater the profit for the Department. But the Department seems to be incapable of installing telephones in public buildings. It was left to an outside entrepreneur to put in red telephones in public buildings. The PostmasterGeneral's Department should have used its own facilities to provide this service. This is a matter that is to be regretted and to be condemned. I can only hope that this service will be extended by the Postmaster-General's Department. 
This Department has in recent times through some strange idea sought to reorganise and reconstitute its activities and to establish new departments in certain country areas, necessitating the transferranee of people from their homes and disrupting existing departments which are giving satisfaction to the public at the present time. Whilst the Departmen is doing this it is neglecting the obvious, that is, the provision of services being demanded by the public. If the Department and the Government was getting on with the job of ensuring that these services were being made available and that the essential links for these services were being manufactured one could understand and applaud it. Now that we have decentralisation in the manufacture of essential items necessary for the expansion and development of postal services the Postmaster-General should have a look at the demands being made by the people of Australia. 
I deplore and condemn the failure of the Postmaster-General's Department to get on with the job of providing a translator station for the people of the 
Wallerawang-Cullen Bullen area. I am unhappy with what is taking place at the present time. This represents a retrograde step, as far as I am concerned. This translator station was promised years ago. It was on the programme for last year but it has not been mentioned in recent times. We hear talk about colour television. We hear talk about new services. This area is within 100 miles of Sydney. It stands to the everlasting discredit of the people who administer this Department that the people in the country should be treated in such a shameful way. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Proposed expenditure $90,936,000. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the expressed satisfaction of the Prime Minister with the outcome of his recent world tour, 1 ask him to make a statement in precise terms saying what action he intends to take to deal with the parlous condition of the rural economy, the depressed state of industry and the serious position in regard to the growth of unemployment. Will the Prime Minister in such a statement deal more particularly with the economic problems of prices, the economic trends in our economy and the world situation rather than giving a travelogue of his recent tour abroad? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate leaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Reprsentatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergencyfinance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns the price of liquid petroleum gas. In order that the right honourable gentlemen may better understand my request for action I refer to a letter that I have received from the Town Clerk of the Lithgow City Council in which he states that bulk supplies of liquefied petroleum gas are to be increased in price by S7.25 a ton to a total price of $52 a ton whilst Victorian producers are selling the same product to Japan for SI 6 a ton. 
ls the amendment seconded? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assem bled.The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Has he yet considered the request of the State Premiers for a special Premiers Conference to discuss the depressed condition of the Australian economy and in particular the problems of unemployment, the rural crisis and the cost-price inflation? As a majority of Australian States have indicated their approval of such a meeting, will the right honourable gentleman say when the conference is to be, held and whether the Federal Government will place on the agenda firm proposals for the control of prices? Finally, will the Prime Minister see to it that excessive profit making is listed for discussion so that action may be agreed upon to deal with profiteering, which results in increased costs for goods and services? 
Order! The honourable member will speak through the Chair. 
I have just been handed some advice which 1 am prepared to accept. For the benefit of the honourable member for Paterson. I mention the 2 collieries that have been closed. I understand that the Liddell Colliery is in his electorate. Let him stand in this House now and seek the protection to which he is entitled and say that I was right and that he was wrong. Is it not a fact - I direct my remarks through you.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the honourable member for Paterson - that the collieries have in fact closed? I repeat the allegation that I made before. The honourable member called his own Premier a liar. The Premier of South Australia is more than concerned. Did he not make some representations to the national Parliament suggesting ways to get the country back on an economic footing? Have his proposals not been ignored? The honourable member for Angas the other week used the procedures of this House for a cheap political trick in seeking to have the wine excise removed? He ought to be condemned for that for ever and a day. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. In view of the acknowledged need to provide adequate defence for Australia and to maintain full employment, will the Minister give preference to government defence establishments in the procurement of defence supplies? Having regard to the splendid production record and the excellent precision standards of the Commonwealth Small Arms Factory at Lithgow, will the Minister review the policy of purchasing from overseas light machine guns which could and should be made here? Finally, I ask the Minister to maintain the skilled defence workforce in employment and, where necessary, to engage in peace time production for government departments and industry. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
I think that the honourable member has dealt fairly fully with this matter and should return to the subject of the debate. 
At the present time we have what Kenneth Davidson of 'The Australian' has called a 'hydra-head' planning structure. This hydra-head planning structure is made up of a complex of policy-making bodies, such as the Tariff Board, the Arbitration Commission, (he Treasury, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Reserve Bank, the Trade Practices Tribunal and 6 State governments, lt is not true that we do not have ony planning at all but we have this piecemeal planning taking place in the areas I have outlined. The Treasury has established its pre-eminent position after a struggle wilh the Department of Post-War Reconstruction and exercises its influence on the future of ihe fixed investment of public corporations. The Department of Trade in recent years has controlled mineral policy, tariff policy and exports. The Commonwealth has been forced, protesting and reluctant, to take an increasing role in the planning of rail and road networks, health and the whole field of education. We have seen the Government pushed increasingly towards a more integrated fuel power policy. In its ad hoc bits of legislation for encouraging separate energy supplies it has been forced to recognise that legislation implies economic judgment on the energy pattern viewed as a whole. 
The trouble with ali this planning is that it fails to dovetail trends in various sectors and fails to make provision for the training of efficient planners, so creating a bottleneck in the supply of the sort of people who can understand and apply the knowledge revolution about planning and forecasting techniques that has taken place in the rest of the world in the 1960s. Other factors prominent in the development of the hydra-head system which we have at the present time are the ideology of the present Government we are suffering in power - the growth of a system of government preferment of vested interests and the isolation of Australia from new developments in economic thought and planning abroad. The main criticism that has been made against this system is that it confuses regulation with planning, fails to make the various agencies of regulation work towards common objectives and creates an overlapping of functions or a lack of coordination which tends to push and pull industry, businessmen and workers in directions which are often conflicting and never clear. In short, the many heads of the system work in blindness to what each other is doing and to what they are all trying to achieve. That is the present hydra-head planning which we have in this country at the present time. 
Can it be seriously denied that a national planning ministry with a view of the overall economy and how its sectors could be dovetailed would not have eliminated the uncertainties and delays and the stop-go policy of which this Bill is only one part? If planning is understood as the establishment of major objectives of economic policy and their relative priorities, followed by their translation into a complex of explicit and consistent quantitative targets, thin the opposition to such industrial targets as I am outlining has little basis. In this sense planning becomes an indispensable technique for exploring in systematic fashion the range of possible economic policies and strategies on the basis of accurate knowledge, taking into account all the objectives that the Government and the private sector may similarly wish to pursue. We get speeches, short though they are, from the honourable member for Isaacs wiping off this sort of planning. 
As I said in my speech on the Budget in 1971, as well as in 1970, this is the last country to have these sorts of targets whereby businessmen know where they are going. They have them in Japan, which my political opponents opposite would hold up as being an example of private enterprise. They have them in France. They have them in the United Kingdom. The businessmen have even more sense of where they are going in that great example of private enterprise, the United States of America, than we have here with our 6 separate State governments going in different ways and with a Federal Government which will not take a lead and which is exemplified by the sort of legislation that we are debating tonight - bringing back investment allowances when they have been off the books for only one year. It is for these reasons that I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
We must be more selective in the way we give what is nothing more than a handout to private industry. No evidence has been brought forward by the speakers on the Government side as to which company is in fact going to employ more men because of this legislation. Not very long ago at question time the Prime Minister said that bringing in this legislation would not make the slightest difference to the price of steel in this country, because the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would not derive any benefits from this legislation until April of next year. That is true, because it is not until April of next year that the tax assessment for BHP based on the year ended 30th June 1971 will become payable. So that will be the first time that they will be given any advantage under this legislation. How is it going to affect BHP's investment policies right now, by giving this investment allowance and by making more of this handout available? 
In other cases where entrepreneurs are making decisions whether they will invest here or elsewhere in the world, whether they will invest now or put off their investment until a later occasion, this investment allowance would be taken into consideration. We would bc prepared to give the investment allowance in these circumstances, assuming that the investment itself were in the best interests of this country. If we found that the investment was going to be in an area which would not be to the long term benefit of this country we would be able to tell these people sooner rather than later, instead of allowing this investment to take place and then causing great disruption by the business not being a viable one. For these reasons I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I request the Government to think again before it works in this ad hoc manner and merely hands out money to industry because the pressures from industry are strong. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Let honourable members in this House note well and let the Australian public note well the attitude of Government supporters in this debate. They have declared without equivocation at all that they are not interested in decentralisation; that this is a matter for the States; that this matter does not belong to the Commonwealth and therefore they will do nothing about it. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has said that this is a matter for the Slates, that the Commonwealth in its responsibility is doing all that it should be doing. It is looking after Canberra. It has a responsibility for the Northern Territory and it is doing this work rather well. Is this the attitude of the people of Australia? I know it is not. I know that this attitude which we have heard in this Parliament this afternoon would not be supported anywhere in Australia nor will members of the Government coalition parties when they go before the people attempt to support this stand, for it is not in keeping with the desires of the Australian people. Rather than Government supporters making it clear what the Government is prepared to do or attempting to excuse the Government for what it has failed to do they have gone along with a barrage of criticism of the Chifley Government and other Labor Administrations. 
I ask honourable members to look carefully at the history of Australia. It will be seen that wherever there has been any governmental development in this country the development has come from the operation of the Australian Labor Party in government, whether it was the Fisher Government with the transcontinental railway - one of the most ambitious programmes of the period - or the Chifley Government with the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. These projects provide the positive answer. They give the lie direct, if I may use that term, to those honourable members who have tried to make it appear that Labor in government is not concerned with these matters. In the defence field Labor in government has been active. Labor in government has not only served the people in war but it has also built defence establishments in peace time which provided for the decentralisation of industry. The Fisher Government provided for the construction of the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow in New South Wales. That factory is a major employer of labour at Lithgow. It was the Chifley-Curtin Administrations which built up factories in various parts of this continent and particularly in New South Wales to provide the necessary munitions for those engaged in the defence of (his country. 
The honourable member for Calare  (Mr En aland)  would know, if other honourable members in this place do not know, that Email Ltd at Orange, which is the largest employer of labour in Orange and one of the greatest employers of labour anywhere in New South Wales country districts, was established in Orange by the Curtin-Chifley Administration. This factory was commenced as a peace-time operation by the Chifley Administration at the termination of the war when Email came into the Government factory and established its own industry which has provided such a wonderful asset to the central west of New South Wales. Factories were established in Lithgow by Berlei Ltd, Gladis Grieve and the Service Box company at the termination of the war and under the aegis of the former Prime Minister, my distinguished predecessor, Ben Chifley when the transition from war to peace took place. Surely these examples would convince anyone that Labor in government - a Federal Labor government - plays an important part in and has been engaged in the development of this country. Just as Labor administrations in the past built the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme, the transcontinental railway and provided for the growth and development of Bell Bay, Tasmania, so too would a Labor government in the future do precisely the same thing. It would build this country. It would halt the erosion of country populations by people moving to the cities and to the larger provincial centres. It would want to put an end to the pollution which is occurring at the present time because of the crowding of people into our great capital cities to the detriment of the people and to the detriment of the nation. We want to see our nation progress; we want to see it expand: we want to see it develop. The only useful way this can be accomplished is by the development of the resources of our country. 
I should like to think that in this land of ours a national government, an Australian government worthy of the name, will come Into office and will legislate to provide industry, work and job opportunities in the country centres. Likewise it can also provide for opportunities in the commercial field. Government departments can be transferred to country centres. Of recent times we have had discussion on the investment allowance, but not one member of the Government side made one suggestion of the use of the investment allowance to bring industry to country centres. Here is a most desirable way to expand industry in country centres. Give the investment allowance to industries going into the country to provide job opportunities for the sons and daughters of people living in the country and for farmers who are being dispossessed of their land. 
But these matters are not being discussed, nor has this Government ever taken the opportunity to strike a blow with cheaper charges in the country districts. The Postmaster-General's Department, with its infamous policy of rising costs and charges which are a burden on everybody who lives in the country, makes it almost impossible for any enterprise to keep in constant communication with its main offices in the capital cities and in other centres. The Postmaster-General's Department, by a reduction in telephone charges, could make a worthwhile contribution. If the Government were serious about national, balanced development of this country on a regional basis, the PostmasterGeneral's Department could come to the fore and make a contribution in this field. The Postmaster-General's Department constantly complains about the shortage of equipment. What does it do about producing the equipment? Surely there are in the country empty factories and factory space, and men with the capacity to produce the sorts of things that are required. 
Yet these resources in manpower and machines are being neglected, forgotten by a Government that merely talks of decentralisation at election time as a political gimmick. Like the blessed word 'Mesopotamia' or 'Mecca', this is a delightful work that can be used at election time to tickle the minds of country voters, and idealists who live in the city and the city people who formerly lived in the country and who are eating their hearts out to get back to the country to live a worthwhile life and apply themselves to the problems of the nation in the environment that they know so well and among their friends. 
This country is rich in resources. What has the Government done about our resources and our development? Let us take one matter, natural gas, which the Australian public generally speaking has had to finance by aiding the Bureau of Mineral Resources and by tax concessions and so on. Gas has been found in great quantity at Palm Valley in Central Australia. How is that being handled, organised and harnessed by the Government to provide work and opportunities in Alice Springs or any part of Central Australia? Is there any plan to use this gas to stimulate industry in the countryside? Despite the fact that it has been found in the centre of Australia, it lies neglected because this Government neglects country areas, which are doomed just so long as this Government remains in power. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I  present the  following  petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closingat Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, wilt ever pray. 
Petition received  and read. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
In regard to (a) the Commonwealth Railways and (b) each of the State railway systems can he state what was the (i) total debt as at 30th June 1971, (ii) amount paid in interest for 1970-71, (iii) rate of interest, (iv) extent of increase or reduction in capital debts during 1970-71 and (v) total value of assets as at 30th June 1971. 
Has the Prime Minister yet received a reply from the Premiers of the Australian States as to whether representatives of local government bodies are to be invited to attend the constitutional convention to consider Commonwealth, State and local government relationships? The right honourable gentleman will recall saying in reply to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition that he would refer the question to the Premiers of the States and that it would be up to them to decide what they wanted to do. As a constitutional review is a matter for all Australians and all sections of government, will the Prime Minister now advise the Premiers that the Australian Government will welcome the attendance of representatives of local government bodies at the proposed convention? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly, pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In this matter, as in all other major matters, the Government betrays the national interests of Australia. Whether it is in the plunder of resources in some other field or in any other respect, we can always be sure that the Government will come down on the side of foreign interests rather than protect Australian interests. With this Government, national interests are always subordinated. We can always come second or in some other place. Our special position in regard to stud merino rams and our ability to produce fine wool is being disregarded by a Government which is concerned to sell our heritage for a mess of pottage. There is no doubt about that. I refer to the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  At no time did he attempt in any way to justify the lifting of the embargo on the export of stud merino rams. As one would have expected, he concentrated on the type of speech that should have been delivered by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch). 
Obviously, the Minister for Primary Industry is not too comfortable on this matter. Neither are his Country Party colleagues. He has many friends in the wool industry who would adopt the same attitude as that adopted by the Australian Labor Party in standing by our industry. We are prepared to protect our industry. We will be loyal to the wool industry, and we will not sell it to foreign people who want to gain at its expense. It is true that the stud merino ram breeders could derive quite satisfactory returns from the sale of their skills in the breeding of stud merinos over the years. But in no way did the Minister attempt to justify in his speech the export of stud merino rams. He avoided that like the plague. He did not attempt to offer one word in support of that. 
I listened to the speech of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  In effect, he said that wool does not matter anyhow, that there is a substantial pool of genes of merinos overseas and that in any case corriedales and polwarths are almost as good so it does not matter. Consequently, we should embark on this campaign in which the Government is engaged of the betrayal of our industry and of Australia's national interests. When one looks at this industry and what has taken place over the years, it is easy to see that the Government has not been comfortable about it. Almost 43 years have elapsed since the Scullin Government, with an act of courage, political wisdom and by placing national interest first decided to impose a ban on the export of stud merino rams. Then, after all those years this Government finally weakened under pressure from the lobby of those in charge of the stud merino industry and decided to take some action. Here was a case in which the Government was not prepared to accept the viewpoint of the industry. It did not want the industry's point of view. It regarded the views of the Australian Wool Industry Conference as quite all right. But when the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and other honourable members on this side of the House wanted a reserve price for wool, when we wanted action to be taken years ago to protect this industry, the word from the Government invariably was that we had to be satisfied that that was the point of view of the industry. 
Quite properly, the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson on behalf of the Opposition merely asks that a democratic procedure be adopted. The Minister has moved that the House support a partial relaxation of the embargo on the export of merino rams as recommended by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, to which the Opposition has moved that the following words be added:   if a majority of wool growers affected decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
This clear statement of a democratic procedure is rejected by the Minister. Of course it is rejected by the Liberals. We would not expect them to take any other course, but we would expect the people who represent the wool growers to speak up in this place and say that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson is reasonable and therefore should be supported by the Parliament. As to a poll of wool growers, are we afraid that the wool growers will give us a decision that we will not like? 
Let us examine the attitude of the Government step by step. It decided firstly that it would relax the embargo on the export of merino rams for a period of one year, in which time 300 rams and no more could be exported. The embargo was to be lifted from 1st February 1970 to 31st January 1971. The raising of the embargo was then extended to 31st March 1971 and the latest information is that it is to be extended for a period of 3 years, terminating on 31st January 1975. The first step, of course, was the last step in the betrayal of this great industry, in the betrayal of the national interest and in the betrayal of the privileged position of our wool industry. Does anyone think for one moment that there is a country in the world, however backward or sophisticated, which would sell out any patent rights, any special skill, any special advantage that the country might have in any field at all? Yet this Government rushes in, in my opinion merely to try to score a point in a debate about the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and is determined to lift the embargo. 
At no stage was the decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference unanimous. The results of the votes taken were 37 to 6, 31 to 17 and 31 to 18. In considering such matters surely the right answer to obtain is that of the people who derive their income from producing wool. Everyone will readily agree that the present problems of the wool industry are great indeed. They include trying to balance the budget, trying to meet rising costs, and selling wool at a fair price. On top of all this, the only solution that the Government seems to have is to sanction the export of our stud merino rams so that everybody else in the world will be in the same privileged position as we are. 
First we heard the point of view of those people who supported the lifting of the embargo for only 12 months to allow 300 rams to be exported. They said it was an important move as it would lift the quality of wool throughout the world and place the wool industry in a special position to meet the competition from other fibres. They said that the standard and quality of wool would be enhanced and wool would be able to take its rightful place in the world textile industry. That was one point of view. Then we heard the other point of view, which went like this: In any case, to export 300 merino rams could not in any sense affect the world situation; it would not be a threat in any way; it would be a mere drop in the bucket and nothing at all to be worried about; it was not at all important; and it would have no effect upon other countries. We were told about our special climate and conditions and our special knowhow. We were told that we would be no poorer because of the export of stud merino rams and it could not possibly be a threat. They were the conflicting points of view. One view was that it would enhance and uplift the world quality of wool. The other view was that it would not matter at all that it would not have an impact of any kind. Then the more realistic and more mercenary people said: 'We will be able to get exchange from the sale of rams on the world market and this will help our balance of payments.' 
All these matters indicate the mixed feelings of the Government on this question. This Parliament has no other course than to be guided by the people in the industry. The only way in which we can be guided by people in the industry is to permit those who will be involved because of the policy of this Government to determine the matter themselves - to give to wool growers the right to decide this" matter. They should vote to determine the question. If some other matter were to arise surely we would adopt that practice. The honourable member for Dawson referred to the honey industry. An opportunity will be given to honey producers, to apiarists, to have a vote in electing their officers and determining the constitution of the Honey Board. The people who produce the honey will be given an opportunity to vote. All that the Opposition asks is that the wool growers themselves be given an opportunity to judge this matter as it affects them and their clip, as it affects their bank balances and this nation. 
If any honourable member believes that that is an unreasonable attitude I would like him to go on record and say it, not only in this Parliament but also on the hustings in the forthcoming election campaign. He should say that he feels that the growers are not entitled to determine a matter of this kind by exercising a vote on this important national question. We are fortunate and blessed that we have an industry that stands high in the world and has no real or serious rival anywhere. Despite what the honourable member for Corangamite has said in regard to South Africa, the Soviet Union or any other country, when fine wools are required the buyers of the world come to Australia. They will continue to come to Australia and it is up to us to look to the interests of the Australian wool producers, to protect their industry and to see that they have an opportunity to determine this question for once and, as far as I am concerned, for all time. I enthusiastically support the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. 
The Honey Industry Act of 1962 which this Bill seeks to amend, was a step forward in the orderly marketing of the Australian honey crop, but it was only the first step. At that time there was an urgent need for an organisational and developmental programme to be commenced, for the industry was in a rather parlous condition at that time, lt was to the credit of Australia's commercial apiarists that, by their representations and by their advocacy, the Government at last heeded their requests and action was taken to establish the Australian Honey Board. The 1962 Bill was the foundation measure which established the Honey Board. At that time I said that the legislation was not sufficiently comprehensive, that it did not take into consideration all aspects of the production and the marketing of honey, that it had little regard to price and distribution and that not enough thought was given to the home market. 
That Act is now being amended. A welcome feature is that apiarists with 200 or more hives will be able to elect producer representatives to the Australian Honey Board. Despite the honeyed and barbed words of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  honey producers are not happy with the legislation and there is criticism of the Honey Board. Many members of the House have received letters expressing trenchant criticism and disapproval of the conduct of the Board, making suggestions that it could be improved and also drawing attention to the fact that the present proposal of representation by 5 producer representatives and 4 packer representatives is not a satisfactory solution for the control of the industry. As the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  quite rightly pointed out, it could be that the fifth person, who is appointed by the Government - the  Chairman  - could have distinct leanings towards the packers and unquestionably the packers would control the industry. Most of us believe that in any industry the producers should be in charge; they should have control of their industry. It is noteworthy that the Minister referred in his second reading speech to the fact that New South Wales and Western Australian sought as the definition of producer' one who produced honey, but packed and marketed only the honey produced by-himself. This is not the definition stated in the legislation on which we are called upon to vote this evening. 1 would like honourable members to think briefly of the problems of the industry. Despite the fact that the industry is a good earner of foreign exchange and brings money into the coffers of this nation to help us meet our balance of payments, it is an industry which faces many problems. One problem arises from the vagaries nf the seasons. Only recently in the eastern States of the Commonwealth, particularly in New South Wales, 2 of the best honey producing months, January and February, where rendered useless, from the apiarist's point of view, by incessant rain. This is one of the problems with which bee farmers have to contend. In addition to the rain, which affected honey production this year, there are also in some seasons problems of winds which dry up the nectar and make the collection of honey ever so much more difficult. 
In addition to these problems with the seasons - the natural difficulties - there is the inflationary problem which is affecting everybody in our country at the present time involving spiralling costs which, of course, have to be borne by the apiarists. Many producers have to travel around the country in a nomadic manner and the costs of plant and trucks bear very heavily upon the producers of honey, and these costs have to be taken into consideration. In addition, of course, the beeffarmer is unfortunate in having an uncertain income. He cannot be sure of his income. The doubts in each year - the seasons, the chance of bush fires, winds and factors of this kind - certainly emphasise the fact that the producers should be given much greater consideration than they apparently are to receive under this legislation. 
The Federal Council of the Australian Apiarists Association has been critical of the Government. The Minister has said that the producers cannot reach a decision unless they are unanimous, that there are divisions in the ranks of the apiarists. However, it can be placed on record that the apiarists are united at least in their criticism of the Government's legislation. They are not happy with it. They are not happy with the definition of 'honey producer'. They would like to see only those apiarists who pack their own honey being classified as producers and they want control of their own industry. They are happy with the idea of a poll, but there is growing dissatisfaction among them. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that in Australia at the present time there is a substantial number of apiarists who are dissatisfied with developments. 
The Minister when commenting on the Federal Council of the Australian Apiarists Association referred to division, disunity and so on. However, these problems of disunity are not peculiar to the Apiarists Association. Many organisations and trading societies have had these problems and, of course, they are not foreign to the Government. I doubt very much that one could find unity in the ranks of the Government Parties at the present time or in any section of them. If the Government accepts the advice of the industry, it ought to be concerned about the viewpoint of the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations. I received a telegram from  Mr P.  Titcumb, the Secretary of the Council. It reads: 
Re Honey Act amendments honey buyer requests to be granted. Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations ignored. Australian Honey Board originally brought into being to safeguard beekeepers interests. Honey buyers at present in Council. Reconstitution requested by beekeepers to give producers a majority on the Australian Honey Board. Minister to date declined to meet beekeepers representatives. Honey Board members not authorised to speak for FCAAA in advising Minister or DPI. 
That statement from the Federal Secretary of the Council clearly indicates dissatisfaction with the Government's handling of this matter. Whilst the person who sent that telegram claimed that the Minister had not received a deputation of beekeepers, I understand that within the last week the Minister has opened his doors to representatives of this Council. I would like to go on record as saying that I think we have a responsibility to listen to the representatives of industry, whether they are wool growers, lamb producers, wheat growers, egg producers or representatives of other industries. Our job is to listen to these people who represent primary producers. The Government has said that the honey producers have not been united, but information which I have received from a producer in the central tablelands of New South Wales makes it clear to me that for 2 years the Association was unanimous in the view that there should be 5 producer representatives and 2 packer representatives on the Australian Honey Board. This is the view of the honey producers. I think this view ought to be taken into consideration. If there is a doubt, a suspicion or a feeling today that this dissatisfaction is working against the Board, I think the Government has a responsibility to try to deal with it and see what can be done to overcome it. 
Some of the beekeepers reject the Minister's attitude that the Honey Board is the voice of the apiarists. The Federal Council claims that it represents the beekeepers and that the Honey Board's role is to administer the Honey Industry Act, not to act as the spokesman for those who produce the honey which the Board has a responsibility to sell. In regard to this matter I also have received some very interesting information from another producer in the central tablelands of New South Wales. It is not surprising that there is criticism of the administration of the Act and the conduct of the Board. I place on record the fact that I support the concept of the Board, I believe that Board operation is necessary. I believe that the industry should be organised in an orderly way and that the beekeepers ought to have some idea of the sort of price they are to receive for their honey and what rewards they will get for their efforts in the production of this very special type of food. 
Let us have a look at the performance of the Board. According to 'Honey Notes' on world prices, Volume 17, No. 44, of 4th November last year, Australian light amber honey sold at St&amp;180 a ton, whilst Argentine honey sold at Stg195 a ton. Volume 17 No. 46 of 18th November last year shows that Australian honey reached Stg180 a ton and Argentine honey reached Stg205 a ton. Australian honey then rose to Stg195 a ton and Argentine honey to Stg235 a ton. Volume 18 No. 5 of 3rd February 1972 shows that Australian honey reached Stg215 a ton, Argentine honey Stg240 a ton and Mexican honey Stg225 a ton. Later, Australian honey maintained its position at Stg215 a ton while Argentine honey went to Stg248 a ton, which clearly indicates that foreign honey was being sold on the world market at a higher price than Australian honey. This is something that should be answered. If the Board is doing its job and doing it well - and I have not sufficient evidence on which to judge the Board - this information which I think is valid requires to be answered. In almost every case Argentina gets higher prices for its honey than the Australian Honey Board is getting for Australian honey. An allegation has been made that on a rising market the Australian Honey Board sold 3 months ahead. If this is so, it is a serious allegation. There is very little trade sense in a proposition of this kind. 
I believe that the Government should respect the decisions of the Commercial Apiarists Conference. It should accept the fact that the Commercial Apiarists speak for the bee farmers, the producers. The claim that a producer's representative is a managing director of one of the largest packing and exporting companies is to me not a particularly good and encouraging thought. The Honey Board fulfils many of its objectives. I would like to think that this friction which quite clearly without any doubt exists today between the Honey Board and the bee farmers could be removed and that a feeling of satisfaction and trust could replace the present condition. Apiarists complain, too, that the original function of the Board has not been respected in all directions. It has not been fulfilled. I refer to promotion. The apiarists say that there is practically no promotion, that the bulk of the money is being spent on administration costs and salaries, that the conduct of research is negligible or practically nonexistent and that not a particularly good job is being done in the control of exports. 
The figures I have quoted this evening from the Government's own publication clearly indicate that foreign honey is bringing a higher price on the world market than Australian honey. Surely the higher price is not attributable to the quality of the honey. In my electorate and that of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England),  the central tablelands of New South Wales, and in the electorate of Paterson, some of the best honey in the world, yellow box honey, is being produced. I do not believe that Argentina, Mexico or any other country can produce a honey which should command a better price on the world market than Australian honey. 
These matters I have referred to are important matters. They deserve some answer from the Government. The producers' complaints should be heeded. From all sources, complaints come to hand against the operation of the Board. They come from the Commercial Apiarists Association of South Australia, from  Mr J.  O. Harvey, who writes extensively about the dissatisfaction of South Australian producers in regard to the management of their industry. These documented views which cover discussions with a former Minister, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and others, deserve the consideration of the Parliament before we rush along disregarding the point of view of people connected with the industry. The producer in the central tablelands of New South Wales from whom I received this communication is quite caustic in all of his comments. They deserve the consideration of the Parliament but time will not permit me to deal with them in full. However, he concludes by saying: 
Obviously the Bill is not going to improve the position, and why amend an Act in minor detail only when the real problem lies in the constitution of the Board? What is the sense in putting a new tyre on a car when the motor is seized? It still will not function. The Minister obviously is either trying to put something over or else he has neglected to do his homework. Why is he refusing to accept the requests, so many and so repeated, of the producers and their leaders? Perhaps as a Country Party man he would prefer to help the large business people. There are many more apiarists in the honey industry with more money invested than packers' interests. Good luck. 
In closing, I ask the Minister to give consideration, after the passing of this legislation, to what the commercial apiarists want to say. I ask him to meet them in his office in Canberra to let them give their point of view. Let us retain this honey marketing organisation. Let us preserve the Board and let us go on in a manner which will give satisfaction to the producers and to the consumers in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition from certain residents of the western suburbs in the Sydney Metropolitan area and surrounding districts respectfully showeth: 
That due to an expanding passenger air travel business together with larger and more powerful jet aircraft, aircraft noise has already become a serious problem for people living in the vicinity of airports. 
That jet aircraft operations have a detrimental effect by way of air and noise pollution on the environment and airports should be situated so as to preserve the environment of populated areas. 
That protest should be made against the proposal to establish an international airport at Richmond owing to the detrimental effect it would have for the environment there and in surrounding districts. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government does not proceed with the proposal to site the second, twenty four hour international airport for Sydney at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs of the metropolitan area. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Armitage,  and was received and read. 

That the question be now put. 
 An articulate electorate should be heard in this Parliament; the voice of the people should not be stilled. There should be action as a result of the expressed desires of the people, and those who work to petition Parliament should be aware of what happens after the member for their constituency presents the petition in this place. At present it seems that it is a question of an exercise in democracy being lost in the deserts of Parliament. This is a most unhappy circumstance but, nevertheless, it appears to many honourable members to be true. A great number of people outside Parliament are utterly bewildered by what takes place when petitions are received or read in this chamber. I would like to think that the Parliament is playing a more useful and integrated role wilh the community because those who engage in compiling petitions and seeking signatures and presenting those petitions to Parliament are doing a useful service on behalf of the nation. But what is the purpose of all this if the petitions when presented are only read or received and that is the finish of them? 
It is praisworthy that the Standing Orders Committee which investigated this matter has decided that the petition should be referred to the Ministers responsible for the questions with which it deals. This is a worthwhile change but it is useless unless the Parliament is later informed what action has been taken on the petition, in many cases petitioners have worked hard on questions of great public concern such as health, education, defence, social services and many more. We heard a petition dealing with the takeover of Australian industry being read in Parliament today. But what is the purpose of people, electors, in the community taking the trouble to prepare a petition and obtain signatures if the petition is to be lost in the dead sands of Parliament and the very purpose of the petition dies with its presentation. The mere fact that a petition is referred to a Minister is good so far as it goes, but it does not satisfy the purpose of the petitioners unless there is a reply to it. 
Surely the time of 21 sitting days in which to reply is reasonable. A Minister who cannot reply within 21 days is certainly not doing his homework; he is not serving this Parliament; he is not serving democracy; and Parliament is weaker because of it. The argument that 21 days is too short is not good enough. The Minister should be called upon to reply. The type of reply he makes is his business. We hear many types of reply from Minis ters during question time in this place. I would like to think that Ministers had a responsibility to reply so that honourable members who present petitions in this Parliament could go back to the people who gave them the petitions to present and say that the petition was presented and received in Parliament, referred to the Minister, that they now have a reply from the Minister and this is what the Minister of the Crown has said in reply. Until we reach this modest advance, the purposes for which petitions are presented are barely worth while. Petitions should form a great link between Parliament mid the people in the democracy we serve, so I ask honourable members to think carefully about this matter and to accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Corio. It is a reasonable amendment and it helps to make our democracy work. It serves Parliament and it serves the community. I can only hope that honourable members will throw off the fetters of party discipline and vote for the amendment. 
I second the amendment. In these days, Parliament is subject to the constant criticism of an enlightened electorate. The people of Australia are not satisfied to accept the parliamentary institution as something that belongs to a bygone period. They want to think of a living parliament - a parliament with links and ties with the community. The people of this country quite frequently criticise the Parliament. They do not criticise parliamentary parties; they criticise the institution of Parliament. I feel that that is something to be deplored. I believe that, whatever one may think of the Government or the Opposition or of political parties, it is a sad and bad day for our democracy when the Parliament itself is being assailed by people because the Parliament has not performed in a manner in which the people expect it to perform. 
In other countries, steps have been taken to meet the will of the people. In Switzerland there has been the initiative, the referendum and the recall. The proposal made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is for the establish ment of a petitions committee of 7 members. Petitions that are presented to the Parliament will be watched by members of that committee, who will see what action is being taken and report back to the Parliament. This proposal does not go so far as to say that the community - the people - will indicate the type of law they want by writing a law. But they will, by petition, say to governments: This is what we think on this problem'. It could be any issue - national or local, trade, commerce, social welfare or something of the kind. Is it not proper that, if our people - the community; the voters in this country - petition the Parliament on a specific matter, in the sense of good manners if not good parliamentary practice, a reply ought to be made? This committee, as indicated by the honourable member for Riverina, would see that that was done. 
The committee obviously would police the petitions. It would see what replies Ministers made and then indicate the decisions of Ministers and of the government to the Parliament and would report to the Parliament. Just as the Public Accounts Committee reports to the Parliament, so would the petitions commitee report to the Parliament. I should like to think that we who have been elected to Parliament would try to serve the people just a little more faithfuly, that we would try to see that the desires of the people were translated into legislative effect and that those people who have felt strongly enough on a subject to make a petition to the Parliament would receive a reply to their views, that their views would be considered and that the Parliament itself would discuss these matters in an informed way rather than adopt the present practice of allowing petitions to be received and to be passed to some dungeon to be stored or for something else to happen to them. We like to profess that we belong to a strong, vigorous democracy and that our democratic institution is one of the most enlightened in the world. I think we ought to examine ourselves in this regard to see just what can be done in this Parliament to make the Parliament a more effective reflection of the desires of the people. I feel that the desires of the people ought to be taken into consideration. We should treasure the precious thoughts of the people. 
If democracy is to succeed and if governments wish to remain in office, it is very obvious that they, too, should give consideration to the will of the majority of the people, or of an informed minority in the country. These views are important and should be considered by government and opposition. Have we reached a stage where we can, quite rudely and arrogantly, merely pass to one side petitions which come here and hand them over to a Minister who will courteously make a reply and forget all about them? Is this the sort of democracy in which we believe? Surely we stand for something better than that. For my part. I think that we in this institution of parliament should insist that something better be done. The proposal made by the honourable member for Riverina for the appointment of a petitions committee of 7 members brings this question right back to where it rightly belongs - to the Parliament. 
All too frequently we complain about executive government, the control of the Cabinet, the Ministry and the paltry role played by backbench members of the Parliament, whether on the Government side or the Opposition side. If we want to make the Parliament more effective and if the backbench members of the Parliament who sit on your right,  Mr Speaker,  or on your left, want to play a more purposeful role, let them vote in favour of this proposal put forward by the honourable member for Riverina so that petitions will be considered not only by the responsible Ministers but also by a committee appointed by this Parliament through the respective parties to ensure that action is taken upon matters about which the people have submitted their views and pleas to the Parliament. It may be true that some of the petitions that come to this Parliament might be considered to be of a trifling nature. I do not think it is our business to dismiss them so lightly. 
The question arises that petitions have been certified for presentation to the Parliament. These petitions deserve the respect of the Parliament and of all honourable members. I can only hope that the amendment, which is a reasonable proposal for the exercise of our parliamentary domocracy, will be accepted and that we will take one step forward, faltering as it may be in the face of the opposition of a Min istry, a Cabinet or an executive, towards better democracy and political enlightenment in this country. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition from certain residents of the western suburbs in the Sydney Metropolitan area and surounding districts respectfully showeth: 
That due to an expanding passenger air travel business together with larger and more powerful Jet aircraft, aircraft noise has already become a serious problem for people living in the vicinity of airports. 
That jet aircraft operations have a detrimental effect by way of air and noise pollution on the environment and airports should be situated so as to preserve the environment of populated areas. 
That protest should be made against the proposal to establish an international airport at Richmond owing to the detrimental effect it would have for the environment there and in surrounding districts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House take appropriatesteps to ensure that the Government does not proceed with the proposal to site the second twenty four hour international airport for Sydney at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs of the metropolitan area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Armitage,  and was received and read. 
A  similar petition was presented by  Dr 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="077131197204191_32_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="077131197204191_33_1.jpg"></graphic>

It is just 6 months since the pension rate became $17.25 standard and $15.25 married. At that time, the 1971 September quarter consumer price index stood at 119.2. The index for the March quarter 1972 has just become available today, and is 123.3. That is to say, during these 2 quarters the price index has risen by 3.44 per cent. If the standard rate pension of $17.25 had been increased by the same percentage, the increase would have been 59c, which is much less than the $1 which is proposed under this Bill. Similarly, if the $15.25 married rate pension had been increased by 3.44 per cent - the same rise as in prices - the extra pension would have been only 52c, as against the 75c which this Bill provides. Thus this Bill continues the Government's policy of increasing the pension by more than the rise in prices - that is, continually increasing the real purchasing power of the pension. 
On some other occasion I shall hope to give the House a summary of the social service advances which Australia has made since 1949, when Labor was last in power. I also hope on some future occasion to discuss the underlying principles behind our policy. But 1 hope for a speedy passage for the present legislation, and I will not open up these aspects now. The full year cost for age, invalid and widows' pensions, together with the consequential increases for long-term sickness benefit and sheltered employment allowances provided in this Bill will be some $71m. Corresponding increases in Service pensions will involve almost another $5m a year, giving a total cost of approximately $76m. For 1971-72 the cost will be approximately $15m. The increases in pensions and associated allowances will become payable from the first pension pay-day following the royal assent, while the increases in long-term sickness benefits will operate in respect of the benefit week ending on the date of the royal assent and each benefit week thereafter. [ am sure that all honourable members will appreciate that the Government is anxious to pay these increases as soon as possible. With over a million pensioners involved, honourable members will appreciate also that this represents a mammoth task for my Department, which may need to cut one or two administrative corners in order to make these increases available to all pensioners by the earliest possible date. For example, it is usual for pensioners to be given written notification of pension increases such as those now proposed; however, on this occasion it is probable that written notifications will not be available in time. 1 am sure that honourable members will agree, however, that an omission such as this can easily be justified in terms of the time saved. Moreover, perhaps the omission is not a major one as the measures now before the House have received considerable publicity since the Treasurer's announcement and will no doubt continue to receive publicity in the news media as a result of our debate. 
The Treasurer has announced that the new rates would apply as from the first pay-day in May. If we can get the cooperation of the House and the Senate, we may be able to beat this deadline, and have the Bill ready for the royal assent when His Excellency returns from New Guinea this week-end. This will enable the new rates to apply to the widows' pension payment, which is due next Tuesday, and to the age and invalid pension payments due the following week. I understand from my Department that it may not be possible to adjust the widows' cheques, which go into the post over the weekend and on Monday, to the new rates; if so, the extra money will be included in their next instalment, so that they - like all pensioners - will benefit as from the first pay-day after the royal assent. My Department does, however, anticipate that for age and invalid pensioners the new rates will be paid immediately from the first pay-day after they become effective. This Bill marks another milestone in the continual improvement of our social services. That improvement will be continued yet further under this Government. I am sure that all honourable members will welcome these further improvements in our social service assistance and, in recognising these proposals as benefiting not only the direct recipients, but also the economy of the nation as a whole, will grant the Bill a speedy passage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.S8 to 8 p.m. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="077131197204202_59_0.jpg"></graphic>

Basically speaking, in 1970-71 the total number of loans approved was 2,048, of which 1,938 - or 95 per cent of the total number - were for indigenes and 110, or 5 per cent of the total, were for expatriates and mixed enterprises. In 1970-71 the amount of the loans was $4. 24m, of which $2.38m - or 56 per cent - was for indigenes and SI. 86m - or 44 per cent - was for expatriates and mixed enterprise. The significant point is that, not only are the majority of the loans going to indigenes but also a majority - even if it is a small majority - of the total amount covered by those loans is moving to the indigenes rather than the expatriate population. In the changing political circumstances referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports towards the end of his speech and in the general developmental ethos of the Territory, that is of considerable significance. 
It is true that a problem remains, and certainly will remain for some time, in Papua New Guinea. We find the same problem in any country developed or otherwise. That problem relates to the most appropriate allocation of resources - whether they be loans, grants or anything else - between the various major sectors of the economy, such as mining, commerce, industry or the rural sector. So if we look further at the statistical material available we find, for example, in the commercial area that the number of loans has risen appreciably, in the last couple of years, from 387 in 1969-70 to 554 in 1970-71. During 1970-71 there were 498 commercial loans for about $750,000 made to Papua New Guineans compared with less than half that number in the previous year. That reinforces what I said earlier - that it is a highly commendable operation and would be seen to fit the terms of the operation of the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank. 
The number of loans to the industrial sector has increased. I have not worked out a percentage. That sector has probably taken a larger share of the increase than other sectors have taken. The total number of industrial loan approvals rose from 91 in 1969-70 to 230 in 1970-71, and the amount of the loans rose by a much lesser degree, from $654,000 to $724,500. That is a significant increase in the moneys applied to the industrial sector and it is also a significant increase in the number of people in that area seeking loans from the Bank. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports had more than a small amount to say about the rural sector, and rightly so. Here we have a fundamentally basic economy - with industry largely around the urban areas - which is largely dependent upon its rural production. The per capita income in that sector is low. This should be regarded with some caution, because the fact that the average Papua New Guinean may have an income of $100 or $200 a year does not prove very much unless we look to see what he has, or wants, to spend it on. If he is at a subsistence level or thereabouts and is supplying himself with his own food and is living a fairly rudimentary life by our standards, he does not have quite the same necessity for the sort of income which we regard as more appropriate to our economic conditions here. 
In the rural sector there are about 15 or 16 categories which the Bank designates as having received loans. It is encouraging to see that the total number of rural loans has increased from 944 only 3 years ago to 1,264 in 1970-71, although the amount involved diminished slightly, from $2.2m to just over $2m, in that period. So perhaps some of the fears of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports are- justified by those figures. Nevertheless, it is encouraging to see, whether or not the rate is fast enough, that the indigenous sector appears to be well served by the processes or the functions of the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank. Unless I am mistaken, the loan from the Asian Development Bank to the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank, and hence to the enterprises and the people of Papua New Guinea, will be a further movement in the right direction, in that it provides more moneys for further and, we hope, controlled and sensible directional development in the case of this Territory for which we have, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports rightly pointed out, so much responsibility which is not going to diminish totally for a little time yet. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  found it necessary to go back into the period of the Second World War to dredge the events of that time, when this country was fighting a battle for survival, in an endeavour to excuse himself, his Party and the Government from the charges which have been made in this chamber this evening. It is true that long term finance is required. The honourable member for Murray eventually expressed tha* sentiment. However, he would have rendered a greater service to primary producers and to the people of this country if he had spoken about that at the outset and developed a case for the financial needs of his country, particularly in respect of our primary industries. Over the years people on the land have had a most difficult task. Their way has not been easy, with the spiralling of costs, the burdens of debt and the problems of low prices for certain primary products. These have caused great hardship throughout the country, and those on the land know that only too well. 
This Government, in co-operation with State governments, has sought over recent times to do something about rural reconstruction, but it cannot be denied that the tempo of the Government's activity is increased when an election becomes closer. In the normal time following an election there is barely a sentiment expressed cr a word spoken about the needs of the people in the country. This overwhelming problem of disaster which has affected so many people should have received attention long ago. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  was quite proper and correct in drawing attention to the fact that the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government has been in office for approximately 23 years, during which time it allowed the decay of our countryside to go on unchecked and unhindered until it reached a situation where, with low wool prices and with so many people in desperate circumstances affecting others in the economic life of our country, action was required to be taken. 
I ask honourable members to have regard to the overall picture. When the man on the land is finding it difficult to pay his way, other people are finding it difficult to pay their way. Debts grow in our country towns. Farm and equipment businessmen are unable to receive the payments due to them. Business houses of other descriptions find that the farmers are unable to pay their way. Local councils find it increasingly difficult to obtain payment of the rates that are due. It is little wonder that such movements as the Rural Action Movement and the Ratepayers Association have been formed. All these organisations only give emphasis to the problems of the man on the land and the need to find finance to establish our rural industry on a proper and permanent basis. I want to dissociate myself immediately from the concept that one has to get big or get out, because different districts have different types of economy. In some places where the soil is rich and where the rainfall is regularly about  20, 30  or  40  inches a year it is a quite different proposition from being in the marginal country where the soil is not so good and the rainfall is considerably lower. I would like 'he Government and those responsible for considering rural reconstruction to have regard to these matters. 
J have referred to the problem of the business people who are affected by the difficulties of the man on the land. I would ask honourable members to spare a thought, too, for those people in country districts who become unemployed because of the difficulties in the country. Let us look at some of the most recent figures provided by the Department of Labour and National Service. In the Dubbo district the number of registered unemployed males was  838  and the number of females was  563.  These are staggering figures. They are figures that surely would disturb the conscience of any Minister, any member of Parliament or any responsible citizen anywhere. In Albury the number of registered unemployed was  311  males and  275  females. In Kempsey there were  403  males and  283  females unemployed. In Maitland,  415  males and  255  females were registered as unemployed. In Lismore, which is represented by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the number of registered unemployed was  356  males and  175  females, and at Wagga Wagga the number was  338  males and  324  females. This is the result of this patchwork approach to the problems of the countryside. 
It is first necessary to build the whole economy to deal effectively with the problem of the cost price squeeze - not merely to have regard to the problem of increasing wages - and to take positive action to deal with all elements which find their way into the cost structure. This Government would have been accepted as a more credible and responsible government of this nation if it had introduced some form of price control, price squeeze or price maintenance to ensure that firms like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the metal and mineral producers and other bodies such as chemical and oil firms were selling their products at a reasonable and just price. 
The claims for reconstruction assistance should be considered much more realistically than is the case at present. I reject the idea that the small farmer is not needed because I believe that idea to be incorrect. I think the most economic farm unit in the area that  1  have the privilege to represent is the small farmer on a living area with his son helping him. 
The family farm and the family farmer. These are the people who can apply themselves with enthusiasm and with great hope and expectation to building a property and making it something nearer their heart's desire. I should like to say a few words in respect of that matter, but first let me say that it is an extremely evil thing to apply vicious death duties on the estate of a farmer whose son, daughter, wife and the other members of the family have worked and slaved to make the farm an economic proposition. These people are today, in many cases, in desperate circumstances. Those whose circumstances have become heavily out of balance are told that their proposition is not a viable one and that they are not worthy of consideration because they have gone too far. They are too deeply in debt to the finance houses, to the land and agricultural companies, to the banks and to the other lending institutions and, because of that, their case is rejected. Others have gone forward wanting to buy land and they, too, have been told that their case is such that they do not require to be reconstructed. They are told instead that they should go along to the normal finance institutions and from those institutions they would be able to obtain the finance they required. This is driving these people back to the people who have already rejected them, or putting them into the hands of people whose rate of interest is a burden and beyond the capacity of the farmer to pay. These matters should be considered. Long term finance is required at a reasonable interest rate. 
One producer who came to me recently had been forced by a land and agricultural company to dispose of his livestock to pay his debts to the company and, having done that, he then found his beautiful property rich in clover and grass but with no stock to eat it, with no hope of earning enough money to pay his way, and with no hope of making payments to the council and to the other people with whom he had been obliged to have his dealings. These are the problem that on many occasions seem to have escaped those in charge of rural reconstruction. The farmers in particular deserve consideration. The small farmer should not be condemned to extinction. Get big or get out is not good enough. People ought to be considered on their capacity, their capability as individuals, an appreciation of their type of property and the manner in which they are managing their property. I believe that if these facts were taken into consideration our people would be able to go forward in the future in a more realistic way. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  had a good deal to say in his statement about the short term financial arrangements and the matter of build-up. These things are all right when expressed on paper but when it comes to the man on the land who pleads for financial assistance and who needs money to help him conduct his property, these remarks seem to have a very hollow ring indeed. I would like to think that there would be a closer liaison between this Government, the States and the man on the land to see that justice is done. On paper, the amount of finance that has been made available to the various States appears to be reasonable. As was indicated in the Minister's statement, $121m is to be made available to the States. New South Wales is to receive $36.8m; Victoria is to receive $25.4m; Queensland will receive $24.4m of which $6m relates to separate arrangements; South Australia will receive $ 13.8m; Western Australia will receive $ 16.8m and Tasmania will receive $13. 8m. 
I think the Government should look at the diversification of our farming in this country. Out of sheer necessity, we have had to consider the wool industry. Eventually the Government was driven along the path to taking action in providing some sort of wool selling programme, but this temporary arrangement in itself is not enough. There must be a full march ahead to acquisition for the control of this industry to protect it against overseas buyers and those who have manipulated the market in the past. The primary producers of this country have been victims of all times of the overseas monopolies, the shipping interests, the finance houses and those who have been able so easily to exploit them. If the Commonwealth Government now, after providing rural reconstruction assistance, fails to grip the nettle as it should and go along with the scheme of full and complete acquisition of the clip, and the control and' protection of those who produce the golden fleece, I believe that the Government will be falling down in its duty to the man on the land who produces our wool clip. But our rural reconstruction must go far beyond the production of wool. We must examine the whole field of primary production. The situation of the dairymen and everybody else on the land should be examined and finance should be made available to meet the urgent needs of those who have made their contribution to the development of this country. I was impelled to express these sentiments because I feel that what was stated by the honourable member for Murray certainly did not in any sense answer the needs of the farmer today. We should look at the situation which exists today and judge this Government on its 23 years of arid rule. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Corbett)  adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Today I wish to voice the justifiable grievances of approximately 1,500 people in the electorate of Macquarie who are extremely dissatisfied, disenchanted and dismayed with the fact that this Government, through the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and the administration of the Postmaster-General's Department, has failed to satisfy thenneeds for telephone services. The complaint from the electorate of Macquarie can be multiplied in every other electorate throughout Australia and the figures for Australia are distressing and disturbing. Some 66,000 people are waiting for telephone services in Australia and this, of course, is an indictment of a Government that talks about progress and development. 
Surely, if we are to progress and develop and give a civilised service to our people as well as permit people to obtain a normal service that they require, a telephone should be provided to these people. Surely the sick should be able to call a doctor or an ambulance; the aged should be able to call a relative to come to thenaid should circumstances arise when they are needed; and those wanting employment or needing to go to work should be able to communicate with their business offices. The whole field of industry and business today is blighted because of the Government's failure to face the facts of life and to provide the necessary telephone services that are essential to the developing country in which we live. 
This unsatisfactory state of affairs is due, of course, to a very central feature - the question of money. We have a financial policy which was determined by governments of other days and implemented since then which results in the PostmasterGeneral's Department paying to the Treasury money for money received from the Treasury - the money of the Australian taxpayer. So Australian taxpayers pay twice. 
I should like to refer briefly to a reply the Postmaster-General gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Oxley (My Hayden) in which it was pointed out that $ 126.9m was made available by the telephone branch of the PostmasterGeneral's Department in 1970-71. This amount was dissipated or lost because the Postmaster-General's Department in turn is required to make funds available for depreciation and then in turn returns moneys to the Treasury. Surely honourable members on either side of the House would willingly admit that the service provided by the Postmaster-General's Department is a community service. It is a community service whether one lives in the city or in the country. It is true that the need for a telephone service is much greater in the country than it is in the city. Unfortunately, in many instances, people in the country are denied the necessary telephone service although they live within a radial distance of 15 miles which is the distance within which the Government promised it would provide the service. These people have expected the Government to honour its promise. 
I have before me today items of correspondence with the Postmaster-General's Department. One relates to a constitutent who lives in the Bylong Valley which is situated in a distant part of my electorate. People in this area urgently need a phone to enable them to arrange for the marketing of their goods, to help their children who are going to school, for the health of their families and for all of the other purposes for which one would require a telephone. The people paid the necessary fee to the Department and they expected the service to be provided. But the Department said, when asked to provide this service for which payment was made, that it could not be done as the service would not be available for at least 2 years. This is a shocking state of affairs. All that was called for to provide this service was 4 or 5 spans of wire. Yet the Postmaster-General's Department has not been prepared to satisfy this necessary need of people who live in country districts. 
At election time we hear Government supporters talk about their great concern for people in country districts. Yet nothing has been done. Another case that came to my attention was one at Wiseman's Creek in the Oberon district. In this case a person applied for a telephone and last October was invited to make payment for the rental of the phone. The rental fee was paid and the person's name appeared in the district telephone directory. Despite this the phone service was not provided. The excuse given by the Postmaster-General's Department was that the person lived approximately 3 miles from the road. The person concerned measured the distance by road and found it to be 2 miles and 100 yards. But despite the Government's promise to provide a service up to 15 miles, the service was not given in this case although the money was paid and the person's name appeared in the telephone book. The Governblithely will go on its way and provide colour television services and so on while denying the elementary and necessary services to people in country and city alike. This is a disturbing state of affairs. 
I cannot too strongly condemn the attitude of a government which neglects to give the community this necessary service. I charge the Government with a breach of faith and confidence in regard to the applicant from Wiseman's Creek. As I have said, his name appeared in the book, his number was listed and he paid his money. Yet, he was denied this necessary service. I find, from looking over the list of those requiring a phone, that the number is constantly increasing. I recently received some figures from the Postmaster-General in regard to the electorate of Macquarie. It was pointed out that 764 applicants were awaiting phones in the Penrith district. Since that time the number has increased to 909. The number waiting for phones in the Glenbrook district is 267 and the number at Springwood is 224. The Postmaster-General's Department is failing to take into consideration population growth. New communities are growing. New streets are being prepared and development is going on in this eastern portion of the Macquarie electorate. Yet the Postmaster-General's Department is doing nothing about keeping up with this development. One might say that the reason for this is that funds are not being made available. 
In this field I have no charge to make against the district telephone managers or those who carry out the work. My charge is against those who control the Department and against this Government for the failure to adopt a realistic policy in regard to the needs of people who require phones. I notice that in the publication entitled 'Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme 1971-72' it is explained that one of the reasons why a greater number of phone applications are coming forward is that people now can take advantage of this new and excellent service and get their phones up to a radial distance of 15 miles. I would like to know when this principle will be applied in the electorate of Macquarie and when people there will get the measure of justice promised to them. 
Let us look at the figures for those requiring phones. In New South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland there is a staggering waiting list. Of all the States, New South Wales has been the most harshly treated. In that State 5,894 people are waiting for phones. In the whole of Australia 66,617 applicants were waiting for this service and of these 14,774 had been deferred. This is most unsatisfactory and should not be accepted by the Parliament. I feel it is time that honourable members said to the Postmaster-General and the Government: Please do something about this urgent matter of providing a service for country people. This service would allow our people to play their rightful part in the fields of health and education. It would also play an important role in assisting people in their employment. I have in my hand a letter from the Penrith City Council and another letter received by a constituent in which he was told that unless he got a telephone he would lose his job. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The" table read as follows) - 

<graphic href="078131197205095_59_0.jpg"></graphic>

This was more than confirmed by a 1970 Victorian Education Department survey of migrants here less than 6 years. Of the 100 primary schools classified as having large numbers 20 were in the west and included 3 with in excess of SO. The high and tech figures for the west were 6 out of 24 and 3 out of 10 respectively. 
Evidence from my own research suggests that not only the recently arrived migrant suffers a language handicap. Even children born here, if the borne language is not English, tend to score at the bottom end of the scale. 
This process is accentuated during the middle secondary years when the level of English demanded accelerates. In my view the present migrant English programme is far too limited and thousands of western suburbs children are as a consequence permanently stunted. 
This is an indictment of the programme of migrant education that we have. My experience in my electorate also reflects this deficiency. The Preston East High School which serves an area which has a substantial migrant population not only has vacancies for a mathematics and a commercial teacher but also shortly will have positions of  deputy  principal, a physical education teacher, a fifth year physics and mathematics teacher and a science teacher falling vacant. But its most urgent need is a teacher for migrant children. This is not my statement but the statement of the High School Advisory Council. Is it any wonder then that I am not opposed to any increase in appropriation for migrant education? However, I am disturbed and angry at having to point out the deficiencies of the programme. Crash courses for adults are ineffective and, unless such special training for non-English speaking migrants is started at pre-school level and carried right through the educational process, the efforts are ineffective. Any debate in Australia on any of the migrant programmes of its political parties is an academic exercise unless one is aware of this prime ingredient of educational training for satisfactory assimilation. 
The appropriation for Commonwealth university scholarships is increased because of an increase in university fees. This once more highlights the inadequacy of this system to equitably make higher education possible for capable young people. Year after year university quotas exist. Year after year young people have to reject places offered to them because they have not sufficient money and they have not obtained scholarships. These children in many cases are the tip of the iceberg from areas which are deprived of educational advantage. In many cases they come from areas with poor pre-school facilities and poor primary and secondary school facilities; yet having survived all this they are unable to accept the university places offered. I make this comment in passing, accepting with despair the Government's attitude to such areas. But, in accusation, how can the Government say that in areas of lower than average earnings it is the lack of parental interest which leads to the disadvantage? This is just hot good enough. More help is needed not just for the student at tertiary level, as the Commonwealth believes; emphasis should be on the student in the earliest stage with need being the basis for decision on how help is granted. 
The same sort of criticism may be applied to the increased appropriation under the Aged Persons Homes Act. Here I again quote some figures for different areas of the Melbourne metropolitan area. Take the western suburbs of Altona, Williamstown, Footscray, Sunshine and Keilor whose  1968  population was  227,000  and then take as a representative eastern suburbs block, Camberwell, Hawthorn, Kew and Malvern whose  1968  population figure was  220,000.  We find that there were  34  single flats built under the Aged Persons Homes Act in the western suburbs whereas  690  single flats were built in the eastern suburbs. There were  12  double flats built in the western suburbs compared with  30  in the eastern suburbs. With regard to the hostels built under the Aged Persons Homes Act, one representing  35  beds was built in the western suburbs whereas  22  representing  652  beds were built in the eastern suburbs. 1 We must query why this imbalance occurs. In my electorate of Scullin there would be one such aged persons home, 'Lumeah', which provides an accommodation of something like  30  beds. The reason for this may be found on examining the answer I received from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  after representations had been made on behalf of the preston City Council.  That  Council wished to use loan funds to supply such accommodation. An excerpt from the letter states: 
When  I- 
That is, the Minister for Social Services -   . . pointed out that grants made from loan funds by local governing bodies to other eligible organisations could be used to attract Commonwealth subsidy I was not inferring that such organisations are more capable of running aged persons homes than local governing bodies, but merely explaining how Councils which wished to help the establishment of aged persons homes could do so under the existing legislation. 
To amend the Aged Persons Homes Act in the way suggested by Council would have the effect of changing the concept of legislation, the purpose of which is to provide an incentive to community support for aged persons homes. 
To provide an incentive to community support for aged persons homes'. Of course, one is there referring to suburbs in which there is less than average earnings, where the community itself is not able to supply the amount that can be raised - in more affluent suburbs to allow these aged persons homes to be constructed in order to make accommodation available for the aged. It goes deeper than that. Because of the appropriation under the Aged Persons Homes Act many people are forced to take such accommodation in other areas. These are some of the fringe problems. People are torn from the areas where they have lived for many decades, where they have lived their whole lives, where their friends still live and where their families probably live. Yet because of the requirements of this Aged Persons Homes Act, the purpose of which is to give an incentive to community support, these already deprived suburbs are unable to satisfy the needs of the elderly people. While it is suggested that the Appropriation Bill has provided for an increased sum of money, this area is so undesirable that it requires the attention of the public to be drawn to it time and time again, just as we are drawing attention to the lack of other facilities for the aged. 
Provision is made in the Appropriation Bills for increased appropriations for Defence forces pay and allowances, particularly arising out of the Kerr Committee report. It was mentioned to me by members of the Defence forces that while the living away from home capital cities allowances for public servants were adjusted early in January of this year, similar adjustments had not been made for members of the armed services as late as Anzac Day. The query was put to me why this should occur. I should like some explanation at some stage whether this adjustment has been made. I believe that these Appropriation Bills highlight more and more the deficiencies of this Government's policies - a government that deserves the fate that it will undoubtedly get at the end of the year from the electors of Australia. 
-Does the Minister for National Development know that a number of mine workers have received notice of dismissal from their employment and that further sackings are threatened in the western coal fields of New South Wales? Will the Minister take immediate action to protect the employment of workers engaged in the mining industry and, with the object of saving jobs and providing employment, confer with the Minister for Trade and Industry regarding market opportunities and with the Minister  fox  Labour and National Service and the Minister for Supply regarding alternative employment? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question to the Prime Minister and Acting Treasurer  (Mr McMahon)  deals with the need for better communications in Australia. Having regard to the rapidly increasing number of applicants waiting for essential telephone services, will the Prime Minister take appropriate action to provide the Telephone Branch of the Postmaster-General's Department with sufficient funds to satisfy the public demand for urgently required communication facilities? Does the Prime Minister know that of the 66,000 applicants in Australia waiting for telephones, many have been on the Department's list for years? 
Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted subject to the document being inspected. (The document read as follows): 
The first law of ecology to biologist Barry Commoner is 'everything is connected to everything else'. This point was made about 80 years ago by the poet Francis Thompson, who said - 
All things by immortal power Near or Far Hiddenly To each other linked are That thou canst not stir a flower Without troubling of a star.' 
It is the existence of these 'hidden links' which we must recognise now when we talk about 'the environment'. Clearly the 'environment' means virtually 'the world'. It is not a component such as clean air or water'. It is not something which is as readily definable as 'education', 'defence' or trade'. It is an entire complex of Nature, Man, Technology and Society, all these are interlinked, changing, evolving and influencing each other. In a world where everything is connected to everything else, it can be very misleading to isolate 'basic environmental factors'. No system in the world, be it a watershed, a national trade pattern or an urban unit, can be regarded as self-contained and cut oil from the rest of the world. Up until recently we have tended to regard parts of the NatureManTechnologySociety complex as separate from one another. This is not so. Our technology affects the other three for example. New methods of fishing are threatening the entire world's fisheries. The motor car has perverted the design of the cities and dehumanised them. City planners have made the situation worse and worse by trying to re-model the city to fit the car. Only now are we realising how much we have lost by regarding motor car transportation as a separate entity in itself. We must recognise the 'hidden links' which exist. Not to do so will be to risk our own survival. 
What then is 'the environment'?  Dr Aurelio  Peccei, the founder of the Club of Rome expressed 'environment' in a systems way which embraces both natural and man-made components. each subsystem or system is contained in a system of a higher order, which represents its environment. All systems besides overlapping here and there are linked directly or indirectly by relations of interdependence. 
The subsystems can be natural or man-made but they interlink anyway. We must forever bury the notion that the 'environment' means clean water or air, depleting resources or anything in an absolute sense. It is foremost a relative thing. It is a way of looking from the subsystem level to the system level. It is a way of seeing which part of the system the subsystem depends for its existence. 
Let us look at a factory. Let us consider the various parts of the larger  system  of which it is a part, which affect its productivity. That is, let us consider its environment. A factory uses water, air, energy, capital, knowledge, material resources (both renewable and non-renewable) labour and technology. Using these resources for production this factory takes one thing and fabricates it into another. The raw material of this factory was produced by the harnessing of renewable and nonrenewable resources. The air used came to it in an 'air shed', and it has a history of use before it gets there. It also possibly has a history of abuse. 
In other words the 'hidden links' to that factory are many and far reaching. As we have seen, we can drawn a similar picture for a house. 
The environment of a wild animal can be expressed similarly. It is that eco-system of which it is part and upon which it depends for food, air, water, and protection. 
In each case the principles are the same. The environment is the system upon which the subsystem depends for its maintenance. 
There are three things which we must constantly keep in mind when we consider the environment. These points are also based upon some made by Aurelio Peccei. 
The world's destiny has become one and indivisible. Disaster is certain unless each nation broadens its own limited circle of solidarity, progressively embracing all mankind. The UN conference in Stockholm in June will be a big beginning. It could be the most important conference so far held on the earth. Significantly one of the six major subject areas being discussed in Stockholm involves 'Problems of Human Settlements'. It is also the only area in. six which Australia presented a paper worthy of itself, to the Conference a paper on the planning of Canberra by the NCDC. The planning of Canberra is a good example except when you consider the land, water, and energy consumed by its 150,000 inhabitants and compare that to an. Indian or African town of the same size. Western culture consumes far too many resources of all kinds. One major problem for the future is that we must come up with alternatives which consume far less resources per person. 
The sum of human things must be guided by long range vision and objectives. Decision making is becoming all the more difficult by the quickening rhythm of events, growth and change, Under such conditions if we are guided by expediency or short term decisions we can likewise court disaster. We must know where we want to go. We must have long term planning goals. Otherwise successive 'ad hoc', short term decisions will increasingly mean 'bad news' for people. Results of such decisions will deviate more and more from true human welfare. Look at where all the decisions which have been made to accommodate the motor car in the city have got us; bad air, destroyed homes to make room for freeways, decaying public transport, destroyed lives from traffic accidents, urban noise, destruction of buildings for car parks, growth of junk yards, and many other consequences. Despite all these decisions we are now worse off. What we have done by successive short term 'ad hoc' decisions is to have 'thrown out the baby, but kept the bath water'. Another good example is the impact of one sub-system, migration, on the integrated urban system where migrants have settled. Migrants have made great additions to the city by enrichment of cultural diversity. The arrival in Australia of such large numbers in the last 10 years particularly, has, however, strained almost every aspect of the Nature-Man-Technology-Society System. It is not migrants specifically but the increase in population growth from 1 per cent to 2 per cent caused by migration which is doing the damage. A 2 per cent home grown population growth rate would impose similar strains. 
Problems of a complex nature do not have simple solutions or can they be solved by partial approaches. In other words, we cannot 'isolate' the basic factors of the environment. AH problems are interlinked with other problems. Again the impact of the motor car on the urban system can be .seen as a consequence of not seeing the 'hidden links' or of ignoring them altogether. We must become system oriented in our thinking when we consider the environment. We must understand what is the environment of any subsystem. This is equally true of the level of a house, a city, a natural region, a nation or a whole earth. Each sub-system is part of a larger system. That larger system is the environment of the subsystem. 
For the first time in our history we have a chance to handle these difficult problems. We can look at the way these complex systems operate and where and how the links occur. Recently there have been some attempts made to simulate on computer the entire world system, by systems specialists in the USA. These specialists have worked under the auspices of the Club of Rome. Their results have had tremendous impact and have caused much debate. The biggest breakthrough however  is  that we now have the courage to do this sort of thing at the global level. We can then tackle the problems at other subsystem levels - regions, nations, cities and houses. In our era of doomsday prophesies we perhaps now have the techniques to confront the problems. However, the social problems stemming from implementing necessary reforms should not bc underestimated. 
These three basic guide lines must constantly stay in the front of our minds from now on when we consider environmental problems. 
Besides thinking system-wise the other essential thing which we must do  is  to define goals. If we do not, in this rapidly changing world, we will continue to throw out more babies and keep more bath water. To keep our lives human and preserve at least some of nature at all we must reaffirm our control of technology and end our mindless slavery to it and worship of it. The Concorde  is  an example of such a situation. Anybody who does a total cost-benefit study of the Concorde to society, must decide that it is not in the interest of most to go ahead with it. If we do not put man in control of his technology we will continue to stagger from one crisis to the next. We will do too little, too late and often the wrong thing in addition; all because we do not know where we want to go. 
We must sit down and decide what kind of environment we want. We can do this successively at every level from the globe down to the house. It is the job of all, not only Governments. Hie housing industry, for example, can do it within its own area of interest, making sure that it recognises all the hidden links which connect the house and its inhabitants to the systems of which they are part. 
The definition of goals is a difficult thing to do, but it is by no means impossible. Already we would have considerable consensus on what we want in terms of air and water quality and freedom from pollution, of housing, of access to recreation and work, of working hours and conditions, of education and health services, of access to and use of material resources, of cultural facilities, of wages and salaries as a proportion of the total wealth and so on. We can hammer out a basic set of guidelines to keep us on course. Obviously we should revise them often. We should put all of them down as an optimum environment statement. The biggest single difficulty which we will face will be to reconcile the different cultural preferences in our pluralistic society. 
In Australia we have serious and escalating problems. However, by world standards we are still lucky, despite a rapidly worsening situation now. We have one of the best population resources ratios in the world. We have the chance to prevent problems by planning. We should be setting an example to the world. One of the most urgent problems, for example, is that we must make decentralisation work here in Australia. We must build new planned communities outside the sprawling disasters which Sydney and Melbourne are rapidly becoming. Decentralisation is working in a few places (notably Western Europe, England and Scandinavia). An optimum environment statement, can be used to provide the framework for policies of decentralisation just as it can for other policies. It should be the frame in which we design all our national and foreign policies. As well as guiding the shape of new cities, it gives as a yardstick to measure what has to be done in old, problem filled cities. 
An optimum environment statement should be idealistic and be reached as much as possible by consensus. It is an easy matter to set up the necessary institution to produce this statement. A Commonwealth Department of the Environment would be a suitable place. A forum in that department could hear the views of state and local governments, conservation and consumer organisations, and just people as well as experts. It will be difficult to do it. Not to do it will mean disaster to us all, for we will face the future rudderless. 
The optimum environment statement should also include the rights of the environment. This can provide the legal basis for protection of the environment from man and his technology. Up until now the law has protected man from man. Man is now doing violence to the environment at an increasingly alarming rate. It is very easy for  a  subsystem to wreck the larger system of which it is a part, that is its environment. The subsystem ignores oris not aware that the system of which it is part has a finite limit. 
Such an attitude was summarised very well by  Dr Garrett  Hardin as the 'Tragedy of the Commons'. Hardin considers a common cow pasture where local people can graze their cows. Each herder can increase his number of cows as he pleases. This is because his gain is offset by a loss which is distributed between all other users of the common who do not recognise what they are losing, because it is so small. All the others of course can do the same. Soon there is no grass on the common and everybody loses. Hardin concludes 'freedom of the commons bring ruin on us all'. The subsystem (the single owner) did not recognise the limits of the system (the common) and the 'hidden links' (the demands of others on the common and the flows of air, water and sunlight to make grass). 
The situation applies to most other systems, be they at house or global levels. 
Finally, it must become obvious that once we recognise that everything is interconnected in a systems way, that the environment can be overloaded and destroyed, we must realise that our concepts of 'freedom' will have to undergo great changes. Years ago robbing of banks became illegal. If everybody robbed banks, the entire social system would collapse. That is another way of saying that the rights of the majority who did not rob banks would not be served. There will be a host of equivalents of 'robbing banks' in the near future, if we want to survive at all. The right to bear arms and the right to drive cars in the central city are now openly questioned everywhere. They have already been abolished in some places. The former is not in the interest of the majority who did not bear arms but had rights to walk the streets in safety. The latter is not in the interests of the majority who are not riding in a car but have a right to breath good air, be safe from traffic and noise and take a seat on an alternative system of public transport. So there will be many 'rights' in conflict in the near future. However, if, ahead of time, we have agreed upon a set of environmental goals we will be better off. We will have then a frame of reference within which we can rationally decide which rights' society can keep, increase or decrease in the interests of most people. It is the only way which will be socially responsible, be fair to all people at the same time, and which will result in the collective survival of all men. 
Might I repeat the criticism of the Government for not including one member of the alternative government among those to go to the important conference in Stockholm. We on this side of the House believe that in matters of the environment everything is connected with everything else. This is the only way to look at the problem in this country. We have to look at it nationally and globally and to make sure that we manage the environment and I use that word 'manage' deliberately one cannot control the environment; it can only be managed in this sector of planet earth. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral to investigate personally the inordinate and unjust delay in providing satisfactory television reception in the Portland, Wallerawang and Cullen Bullen areas of New South Wales. Does the Minister know that the national and commercial translator stations were promised to be completed by mid-1972 and that the national station now is not expected to be in operation before the first quarter of 1973? As the viewers are subjected to inferior television reception but are paying the same licence fees as those who enjoy satisfactory standards, will the Minister take action to end this injustice? 
Tonight I make a plea for action to protect the aged, the infirm and those people in the community who are uninformed on business methods from the dishonest transactions of snide salesmen and people who engage in door to door operations with people who are unfit to match them in business methods. Throughout Australia many people are suffering because of the actions of such salesmen. Hard working people have their money taken from them. They have been defrauded by people from whom they should be protected. It is tragic that in Australia today, within the law, operators can engage in this type of activity and can take money from people. It seems that no protection can be afforded to those who suffer. Law and order is a popular cry these days. Surely there should be some means of protecting people who have lost their money and who have been systematically robbed not only of their savings but also of their cherished hopes with respect to homes and other such matters. 
So that the Government will know something about the situation I bring to the attention of the Parliament 2 cases that have been referred to me. These involve people who should be protected. The first concerns 2 age pensioners who were approached by salesmen from Alco Sales Pty Ltd. The salesmen called at the home of these elderly people - the husband aged 85 and the wife a few years his junior - and discussed with them plans to place an aluminium roof on their old home which today has only an old rusty galvanised covering. The businessmen told a good story and convinced the pensioners that they would be able to provide a suitable roof for them providing a reasonable payment was made. The salesmen did not tell them all the facts. These age pensioners live in Inch Street, Lithgow. 1 will make their names available to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  After a while the pensioners were asked what money they had and the pensioners told the salesmen of their income and receipts. They told them that they had recently been able to redeem an industrial assurance policy and that with some other savings they could gather some $420. The agents accepted the money and signed a receipt. 
According to the husband one agent placed his band on the contract so that the printing could not be seen and asked them to sign a contract for the covering of their home with aluminium. Whether or not a hand had been over the words, it is exceedingly doubtful whether the 85-year old pensioner and his wife would have known very much about it. But they soon found out that before a roof could be placed on their old home it was necessary for them to raise all the money required, which I believe was somewhere in the vicinity of $1,200. Being elderly pensioners they were unable to borrow the money. They went to the bank but could not raise the money. They then tried to have their money refunded, but this shabby dishonest deal could not be stopped. In their efforts to have the money returned, they found that this firm had changed its address. I understand that at the present time its address is somewhere in Chatswood, New South Wales. 
On behalf of the people I contacted the Public Solicitor of New South Wales and I asked that action be taken to protect my elderly constituents - these hard working people. He was a man who had worked with a horse and dray through the burden of ali the heat and difficulties of the years to raise a few dollars only to find them taken from him. I say to the Parliament this evening that this Government, the State Government and governments generally ought to protect people of this kind. It is a shocking, scandalous, intolerable state of affairs if elderly people such as these are to be defrauded while governments remain inactive and refuse to take action. There should be in all of these cases a substantial cooling off period so that persons who feel that they are not satisfied with the deal or who find that they cannot go through with a matter of this kind can be given the opportunity of getting their money back Their contract should be cancelled, but this is not the case. The Attorney-General ought to look into this matter and action should be taken. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer concerns a mother of 1 1 children living at Emu Plains, New South Wales. She claims she paid $2,663 to Trelawney Developments Pty Ltd whose representatives called upon her. The former address of that company was 590 George Street, Sydney. The company promised that it would provide this woman with a home if she would give them her money. The present address of the firm is, I understand, 310 George Street, Sydney. It moved from one place to the other, which is very much like the pattern of the previous case. T understand that an accountant represents the firm at the new address. 
The woman told me that she withdrew from the Penrith office of the Permanent Building Society 2 sums of money - $500 on 22nd March this year and $1,751 on 27th March this year. She then withdrew from the Penrith branch of the Commonwealth Bank money which she had saved over the years which amounted to $412. These 3 withdrawals represented the woman's entire savings. All of this money has been taken from her. No action has been taken to provide her with a home, nor has any communication been made with her with regard to her future and what is to become of her funds, her savings. I have been informed that the receipts that this woman received from Trelawney Developments are held at present by  Mr Peter  Young and  Mr Mike  Willesee who have been investigating on her behalf this serious complaint. 
This poor woman deserves the protection of a responsible government. She deserves the protection of Parliament. She deserves the protection of the lawmakers of this country. If a mother of 11 children can bc scandalously defrauded in this way, what hope is there of anyone having very much respect for the laws of the country which fail to take into consideration the extraordinarily difficult case of this lady. Perhaps she should have known better. Perhaps people are gullible. Perhaps they are illinformed, but they deserve the protection of the law of our country. In this case, as in the other case, protection has not been provided. Action is required to stop this form of robbery. There is no other name for it. It is plundering people; it is being carried out inside the law. If someone goes into a supermarket or store and steals some little article they are quickly brought before the court. But this thieving on the grand scale - this scandalous and shocking scale - seems to be going on unabated in this country. This brand of racketeering ought to be stamped out. 
I can only hope that the Government will heed what I have had to say this evening. I ask the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  who is at the table, to convey to the Attorney-General the sentiments that I have expressed and ask him to interest himself in these cases as well as the many others that are not reported because people who have been defrauded do not know where to go to seek protection or have no-one to speak for them. This is a black spot on the history of this country and deserves to be rectified. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will observe the Standing Orders. 
But that was not good enough. The base of $10 a week, before deductions started, was far too low. This Budget doubles that base. The permissible self-income before any deductions is now $20 a week. Now, superannuation is no longer an incubus, to be taxed at 50c in the dollar thereafter. Now it is to be treated as a capital asset, as of course it should. It is another form of saving for old age. That means that only 10c in the dollar after the first $20 a week will be deducted. Within 3 years - I hope well within that time - we will see that there will be no penalty at all. Do you see what I mean,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? There has been a vast and fundamental change in the basic structure of our social service concern for aged persons, not the revolutionary change advocated by Marx- 
Leninism which is what the Australian Labor Party is planning . and threatening but a responsible, evolutionary change by persuasion and legitimate democratic process. The same is true for other spheres such as in education and in health. I want this written firmly into Hansard today. I am mighty proud of Australia and of the achievements of this McMahon Government. I have never seen better or more far-reaching legislation in my lifetime. If this Government is fairly judged on its record rather than by the splenetic jibes of its detractors, it will hold an all-time high in terms of public regard. 
I refer now to another area, small in terms of numbers and money,. but large in terms of human values, namely, the Aborigines - these bewildered, gentle folk of another civilisation whose land we share. Today, the savage apostles of race hatred and class division try to fan their problems into issues calculated to harm our society. What is the truth? Are they brutally neglected and disregarded? In some places this may still be true, but a great new concern and practical commitment is abroad. This year the Government will spend $53m in direct aid to 144,000 Aborigines, which amounts to about $370 a head, .man, woman and child. A family of 5 - that is, with 3 children - have, in addition to the benefits and entitlements of all Australian citizens, an average expenditure on them of $1,850. Money is not everything, nor does the Government see it that way. In the Northern Territory, 75 per cent of Aboriginal children of preschool age are in such schools. This is the highest average in the land. Over 90 per cent of Aboriginal children of primary school age are so enrolled. Special leases provide land for them on conditions that are peculiarly lenient and sympathetic. Their growth in numbers by natural increase exceeds that of the white population. Yet at our very doors the apostles of class and race hatred have stirred up many good people to support a cause which is aimed at the creation of apartheid and race friction. 
The Government is not prepared to see a separate race within a race developed in Australia, with an embassy from the Aborigines to the Government of Australia as though they were a foreign power. Like all other groups within our widening society, we welcome their participation and their political aspirations as part of a family, not as aliens holding the nation to ransom. We have a long, long way to go to help these ancient people into the 21st century. It will not be done in one generation, not by anyone, but we are doing a very great deal right now. But once again Labor stands, in most of its expressions, with the apostles of radical and even violent action to divide and denigrate this nation in our own eyes and in the esteem of the world. 
This Budget, which raises aid to Aborigines by 70 per cent - or over $21 m - shows a better way. It is the way of responsible change by evolution towards an even better and more just society. The Australian Labor Party has another way. It is dedicated to the dismemberment of our society, and nothing less. It is determined to build on the old discredited basis of Marx, which thinks of everything but human values, incentives and initiatives. It will go ahead to nationalise banks, insurance companies, hire-purchase companies and the like. We are told that it will wipe out all taxation deductions other than for family allowances - that is, all education allowances, insurance allowances, medical allowances and expenses in earning income. Income taxation will be radically rescaled so that it will be, in the words of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  a means of enforcing a restructure of society. Businesses will be radically reconstructed. 
I heard a pathetically naive argument from some leading manufacturers recently who repeated assurances given to them by Australian Labor Party apologists. They said: 'We need not fear. Labor will not use tariff changes against us if jobs would be threatened'. Let them listen to Westerway and the honourable members for Lalor and Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  It is time for them to do some homework. The tariff is seen as a bounty or as a weapon to be wielded by the Government in achieving its socialist objective. It is not just an economic instrument. What is more, if it alone will not do the trick, then discriminatory, specially directed taxation will be used to bring unco-operating industries to their knees. The honourable member for Lalor said so bluntly. He said: 
If you can't induce people, persuade people as n result of using (tariffs) that will get a desired result. You can also do it the other way. You can do it by taxing the things you don't want 
As for workers' jobs, the honourable member for Lalor speaks in the same breath of re-training and redirecting workers from one industry to another. Not only would there be at once a capital gains tax, but Labor speaks of a wealth tax, to be levied not only on the sudden windfalls of speculation but on value-growth and what is vaguely called 'Otherwise'. The honourable member for Lalor said that he will tax, appreciation of capital, capital values, sometimes as a result of speculation, and otherwise', whatever that may mean. 
So far, I have not even mentioned the trade union power base. A student of the statements and actions of the ruling elite for Labor's tomorrow can but tremble at the thought of power in the hands of men who, like Lenin, see little value in the decisions of this bourgeois Parliament. Their appeal is to the streets and, behind the mob, the bitter bargaining behind the locked doors of the Trades Hall. Force not philosophy holds sway there,  Mr Ducker, President  of the State Australian Labor Party has declared: 
I warn all unionists that communist inspired violence will continue unless we are ' vigilant. The Communist Party is using these vigilantes just as Hitler used storm troopers to gain power. 
I see the institution of Parliament in peril if men like Hawke, Carmichael, Halfpenny and Slater have their way. The honourable member for Lalor has given expression to this when he declares that Parliament is not the only place for important decision making on this level. 
On the other hand, what has the Government to offer? We have achieved the elimination of the greatest fear of old age - insecurity and poverty. Now, and especially as soon as the means test goes completely, despite inflation, no person in Australia need fear the dire poverty found in some limited areas today. To one's private savings, whether by superannuation or investment, will be added a weekly pension, which is bound to change with the cost of living, and which is already above what Professor Henderson called 'the poverty line'. The McMahon Government has already increased pensions by $4.50 a week and is making them portable, of value especially to newcomers to Australia. Such pensions will soon go to all and, what is more, this will be quite fair, because those with higher incomes will pay much higher rates of tax on the lot - pension and all. This is a magnificent step forward. 
Add to it great strides in health matters, especially in care for the aged sick. That is another very reassuring story but it needs more time than I have tonight. Add to it the true view, not the knocker's view, of our aid for education. We are moving ahead at an unprecedented rate in the whole field of education. I could go on and on, but read and study the Budget for yourselves. How is all this to be done? Where does the money come from? Will it mean the iron prison of Labor's taxation proposals? Far from it. All this is going on now with a general average reduction in taxation of 10 per cent and, what is more, it gives 50 per cent of the benefits of new tax deductions to those with incomes under $4,000, and of it all 75 per cent goes to those with incomes under $6,500. That is change for you, basic and fair. And this change is occurring within the context of a great leap ahead in defence spending and preparedness. The armed Services are soon to get sophisticated new ships, planes, tanks and guns which will spell a new era of national security. Here is high responsibility. 
I conclude as I began by saying that never in the history of this nation have we seen a more courageous, encouraging, adventurous and yet prudent Budget presented at a time of such solemn national decision. Australians will soon go to the polls. They will have to choose whether they are prepared to discard the certainties and realities of Government achievement through parliamentary change for the superficial, slogan-ridden propaganda of the socialists, and underlying them the unreachable power of the union bosses. Thank God that so far we are free to choose. I hope and trust we will always remain so. It is time; it is time to think, Australia. 
Last Thursday evening when speaking during the adjournment debate I told the House of 2 cases where unfortunate people had money taken from them by salesmen who had failed to honour promises or to refund life savings. I explained to the House how 2 age pensioners - the husband is 85 years of age - had paid all the money they had collected over a lifetime and how despite representations made to Alco Sales Pty Ltd for the return of their $420 they were disappointed and disillusioned. This happened 12 months ago and my constituents, whom I know well, were distressed to think that their life savings had disappeared. The main features of my speech were reported in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' last Friday morning. Later that morning I received a telephone call from the solicitor of the company who told me that the managing director was distressed by the publication of my remarks. I was told that 2 representatives had left the company, that papers were mislaid and that my elderly constituents would have their money returned to them. I was particularly pleased to receive that information and I promptly told the solicitor that I would welcome confirmation in regard to the matter. I was delighted to find that the money would be returned and consequently received a letter from  Mr Maurice  Allen representing Alco Sales Pty Ltd. The money was given back to my constituents - money which was their life savings. I now have the letter from  Mr Maurice  Allen, representing Alco Sales Pty Ltd and I ask leave of the House for it to be incorporated in Hansard so that the record as far as the company is concerned might be made straight. 
I refer to our telephone conversation today relating to your statement in the House of Repre sentatives reported to have been made on 17th August, in relation to our clients, Alco Sales Pty Limited. 
I have been asked to inform you that our clients are most disturbed at the allegation, quote: an elderly couple  in  Lithgow, both pensioners, had been defrauded of $240 by Alco Sales Pty Limited,' being the terms of the report in a newspaper. 
Our client is a reputable Company operating under franchise from Homeshield Pty Limited, a subsidiary of Hunter Douglas Limited. 
Our client's business is conducted in an honourable and proper fashion. 
An investigation of the matters to. which you refer, disclosed that a contract had been signed by  Mr and Mrs Pickering,  the persons referred to in your statement, and some correspondence received in connection with the matter some twelve months ago. 
This correspondence included a letter from the Public Solicitor in New South Wales, Unfortunately, the matters took place during the absence overseas of the Managing Director of our client Company and were handled by a Clerk and Director, neither of whom are now in the employ of the Company. 
The correspondence was filed and not referred to the Managing Director at any lime and the correspondence has remained there without ' any attention until today. Under no circumstances would our client retain money under the circumstances referred to nor is its policy to do so where the purchaser is unable to obtain finance. Had the Managing Director been aware .of the matter himself, these things would not have occurred. 
Our clients vigorously reject the suggestion that in any manner their conduct has been improper, although regret that due to the events which have transpired, the matter was not attended to earlier. 
Our clients have repaid to  Mr and Mrs Pickering  the $420. 
We therefore have to request, that now that these facts have been brought to your attention, you bring them before the attention of the House and thereby correct the record as to what has occurred. 
I would be appreciative of your advice that the explanation in this matter is regarded as completely acceptable by you and that the record has been corrected accordingly. 
I appreciate your continuing interest &lt;n this matter and look forward to hearing from you. 
Yours truly, MAURICE ALLEN.  18 August 1972 
I thank the House for its indulgence. This letter will help to put the point of view of Alco Sales Pty Ltd. Whilst I welcome the action of the company I should like to emphasise these points: Firstly, a year elapsed since my constituents paid the money and signed the contract. Secondly, every effort was made by  my pensioner friends to cancel the contract, without success. Thirdly, they wrote to the company and failed to receive an acknowledgment. Fourthly, at great inconvenience and expense they travelled from Lithgow to Sydney and hired a taxi-cab to visit the North Sydney office of the company only to find that its address had been altered. This cost the pensioners $7.90, which was a sum that they could ill afford to spend. In addition, a letter from the Public Solicitor had failed to bring a refund from the company. 
Whilst I accept the explanation that a clerk and a director had left the company, it seems to me that rather bad management seemed to exist in the company at that time so that ali of these documents  -  a contract, a deposit which perhaps should have been in a trust account, a letter from the Public Solicitor and correspondence from the clients - could have, been mislaid over a period of 12 months and that no notation was made of the visit by my pensioner friends to the office of the company. Naturally, I am happy that my friends have had their money restored to them. However, I feel sure that this satisfactory ending in fact is due to the matter being raised by me in the Parliament and, furthermore, to the fact that the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' published my words. I thank the 'Daily Telegraph' for its public action in giving justifiable mention to a matter which called for prompt and immediate corrective measures. 
Not only was this matter raised by me in the Parliament but I also drew attention to the case of the mother of 11 children who had handed $2,663 to representatives of Trelawney Developments Pty Ltd which, she was led to believe, would provide a dwelling. She has not been given a house nor has her money been returned to her. This company, too, has changed its address. It has moved from one office to another. My constituent, who lives in the Emu Plains area in New South Wales, certainly parted with her life savings when she paid $2,663 to the company. When I raised these matters in the Parliament last Thursday evening I made a plea to the Minister at the table to take the text of my remarks to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  to see what action could be taken by the national Parliament to protect the rights of people in this country. We talk of law and order. We talk of people observing the rules of the game - the rules of life and of moral attitudes - yet it seems to me that the national Parliament, the State parliament and all of our- agencies of government seem to be immobilised and have a feeling of inertia when it comes to the protection of people who have been defrauded in this scandalous and shameful way. 
Because of the publication of my remarks in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' I have now received a letter from a  Mrs Doris  Mary Brown, a war widow of IS O'sullivan Road, Leumeah, New South Wales, in which she brings evidence to me in a statutory declaration of her personal problem and how she has had $4,195 taken from her by the same firm, Trelawney Developments Pty Ltd. Surely these matters call out for action. If the Commonwealth Government cannot do anything about it, at least the good offices of the Attorney-General should be directed to the lawmakers in New South Wales - to those administering justice in New South Wales - to protect this widow of an exserviceman and to see that justice is done. This statutory declaration gives names, addresses and all the details of the sordid arrangement and the manner in which this poor woman has been defrauded by Trelawney Developments Pty Ltd. It is a most important statement. It gives the details of the whole arrangement in a clear and unambiguous manner and I ask that this document also might be incorporated in Hansard for the benefit of the AttorneyGeneral. It will provide him with the detailed information. 
DORIS MARY BROWN states: 
I reside at 113 Flowerdale Road, Liverpool. I am a pensioner by occupation. On or about November 1970, I obtained from Trelawney Developments Pty Limited, a brochure illustrating holiday homes. After pursuing the brochure I decided to purchase "The Seabreeze' cottage. 
I again attended the company's office in George Street, Sydney in February 1971, where I spoke to a person who introduced himself as  Mr Keating.  I said, 'I have decided on "The Seabreeze" for my land at Kanwal. Would you please arrange for the plans to be passed by the Council.' He said, For the plans to be passed it will be $100.00'. I said, 'I haven't got $100.00. I have sixty dollars.' He said, 'That will be alright. That will come off the deposit of the home.' 
At the time of paying the sixty dollars ($60.00) to  Mr Keating  I did not obtain a receipt. The plans which were apparently submitted to Wyong Shire Council by reason of that Council's stamp thereon were returned to me. 
In March 1971, Keating attended 113 Flowerdale Road, Liverpool, and obtained the plans from me. At the time of taking the plans from me Keating said, 'In view of your circumstances I will try and get it cheaper for you'. 
Shortly after taking the plans from me I received regular telephone calls and telegrams from Keating requesting me to ring him at his home after 7 p.m. At the time of receiving these telephone calls and telegrams I was in residence at East Hills operating a small shop. When Keating would ring or 1 would ring him the conversation would go: Keating, 'Have you heard anything from Probate. Have you got the money through yet?' I said, 'No'. 
During one of my conversations with Keating he said, 'I am leaving Trelawney and going to work for Vanlex. You will have to do something about the plans as the Council only gives you a certain time. You will have to have the plans extended/ 
Shortly after I went into the office of Vanlex to speak to  Mr Keating  I was informed thai Keating had left their employ. After an employee of Vanlex was told of my position he said he would try to have the Council plans extended. I did not go back to Vanlex. 
In February 1972, I again attended the office of Trelawney Developments Pty Limited where I spoke to a person by the name of Lyons re the construction of my cottage. I said to Lyons, 1 have got the money through from Probate and I am ready to have the house built'. He said, 'It will not cost you any more for plans as you have already paid for them. As soon as you arc ready for the kit you just ring and we supply it.' Lyons further said, 'I will have to have a deposit on the kit. I will send Angelo out to your place to pick up the money.' 
On 18th February 1972, Angelo visited my residence at IS O'sullivan Road, Luhmea. Angelo said, '1 have come for your deposit. I will take you up to the bank. Can I have cash.' 
With Angelo 1 then went to the Commonwealth Savings Bank, Campbelltown, where 1 withdrew the sum of $2,250.00 in cash and paid the same to Angelo who issued me with Receipt No. 1804 dated 18th February 1972. (1 produce that receipt.) After paying the money to Angelo I requested a quotation from Lyon re the cottage. On or about 25th February 1972, 1 received a written quotation on Trelawney Developments letterhead. (I produce that quotation.) 
After making the first payment t attended the office of the company where I again spoke to Lyons. I said, 'When can I get the kit delivered'. He said, 'When you have paid the balance of the price'. 
On 21st March 1972, Angelo again visited my residence at 15 O'sullivan Road, Luhmea, requesting payment of the balance of the purchase price in cash. Angelo took me to my bank at 
Campbelltown where I paid him the sum of $1,885.00 in cash and obtained Receipt No. 1807. (I produce that receipt.) 
Shortly after paying the total purchase price for the cottage I again attended the office of Trelawney Developments Pty Limited with my daughter-in-law where I spoke to Angelo. I said, I have come for a set of plans for the plumbers and to query the foundations'. He said, 'You haven't paid for foundations. You will have to get your own foundations.' 
Whilst being interviewed by Angelo he received a telephone call. After completing this telephone call Angelo said to me, '1 am sorry, I have to leave, as ten houses have been stolen from our factory at Newtown. I cannot tell you anything else as we have to all go.' 
As Angelo left with another gentleman, the gentleman said to me, 'This is serious, one of them is your house'. Angelo then said, 'I will contact you when we have another house for you'. 
After this visit I kept ringing the company up to obtain some bolts for the foundations so that the bricklayer I had employed could put the foundations up for the cottage. Shortly before Easier, 1972, I attended the office of Trelawney Developments Pty Limited in George Street. Sydney, where I again spoke to Lyons. I said, '1 think you had better give me a cheque for my money back. I am not very happy as you have all my money and it could be in my bank making interest for me.' He just laughed and said, 'We have recovered twelve of the thirteen houses stolen. You can have yours as soon as you are ready. Just ring me.' I then obtained the bolts from Angelo. These bolls are still in my possession. 
On Tuesday, 15th May 1972, I rang Trelawney Developments but obtained no answer. I then rang  Mrs Lyons  on telephone number 337 4026 who stated she would give her son a message. I left my telephone number at Flowerdale Street for him to ring me. Lyons did not ring on Tuesday so I went into the office in George Street, Sydney, where I observed a note on the door which said, Closed for Stocktaking'. I then inquired of the solicitors next door who informed me someone was there but they had been closed that day. I telephoned Angelo at telephone number 31 2703 but he told me he had left the company three weeks ago. Although I have made every effort to contact the company or some person connected therewith I have not been able to do so. 
I thank the House for its indulgence; it will save me the problem of reading the statutory declaration. This document provides names, addresses, the manner in which money was withdrawn from the bank and reveals that the men who posed as the salesmen of this company asked for the money to be paid to them in cash and indicates how they defrauded this most valuable woman in our society - this mother, this widow of a serviceman. If the governments of New South Wales and Commonwealth cannot act in a matter of this kind, 
I feel that they should have another look at the whole law-making structure of our country. We cannot go on and hold our heads up if we are going to permit the repetition of incidents like this. According to information coming to me, this is one of many similar cases of this kind. I condemn it and I ask this Government to take action to clear up the matter. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I welcome the motion moved by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I thank him for proposing the motion and I thank the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for his references to me. There is no doubt that the people of Bathurst have waited for some time for the construction of the new post office and administrative complex. There is urgent need for such a building. As has been stated today, the Postmaster-General's Department is scattered through a number of buildings including the Supreme Court complex, which dates back to 1880, and a new building in Bathurst, the civic centre of that historic city. There has been an agitation in Bathurst for the construction of this building. I pay tribute to the Department of Works for its planning and for the agreeable type of design. I thank the members of the Public Works Committee for the expeditious manner in which they dealt with this important project and for their coming to Bathurst, examining the facilities and agreeing with the need. 
When I review the history of the campaign for up to date telephone and mail services at Bathurst I go back to the days of my distinguished predecessor, the late Ben Chifley, and recall that the first strong representations in regard to this matter were made in 1951. At that time is was agreed that there should be a new telephone exchange building. The then PostmasterGeneral had written to  Mr Chifley  giving details of the proposal, but it was not until 27th March 1965 when the foundation stone of the new telephone exchange building at Bathurst was being laid that the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, declared that there would be a new post office and administrative block for Bathurst.  His  was the first positive statement agreeing to the establishment of the new post office and administrative building, despite the fact that the telephone complex had been discussed in 1951. 
I pay a tribute to all those connected with this work lt Ls good to know that the various offices of the Postmaster-General's Department will be brought together, for undoubtedly members of that Department have suffered great inconvenience and hardship up to the present time. There has been a problem in regard to security, in that mail bags are emptied in one place and have to be taken some considerable distance to the post office itself. All of this emphasises the need for the new post office building. 1 want to make a plea to the Government that it expedite the construction of the post office and the administrative building, for there exists a very great need for such a complex in Bathurst. At the present time Commonwealth offices are scattered throughout the whole of Bathurst. In the new proposal not only will there be a ground floor and 3 upper floors but also provision has been made wisely for 2 additional floors. In due course these will require to be erected, for the plans thus before the Parliament provide only for a period up to about the turn of the century. Branches of the Departments of Social Services, Health and Housing and of the Taxation Office will all be established in Bathurst and these offices will require space additional to that available at the present time. 1 am delighted to think that this is a day of achievement, a day of recognition of the needs of the city of Bathurst. I am sure that the citizens generally will appreciate the action of the Minister, the members of the Committee, departmental officers and the Parliament in taking positive steps to ensure the construction of the building. May I express the hope that the work will be commenced without delay and that the building will be available to the members of the various government departments including the Postmaster-General's Department as soon as possible. I thank the honourable member for Hughes for his remarks and I look forward to the early commencement of the building. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has unashamedly presented a desperate Government's election Budget. The Budget strategy of 1971-72 is in tatters and the soiled anti-inflationary measures have been discarded. The harsh proposals of the last year which caused large scale unemployment have been put to one side at least until after the election. These give way to the election promises of correction of injustice and the remedy of anomalies. I express my approval of what the Government has done in giving this belated measure of justice to pensioners. It is high time that action was taken to remedy the needs of pioneers of this country who have made their contribution in building the economy and serving this country in war and in peace. Electors are entitled to ask why this help was delayed. Last year the Government budgeted for a $630m surplus. This year's estimates will absorb all of that amount of money and the Government plans a deficit of $60m. Of course, with the continuing rise in costs and prices - the spiral which seems to be unending and which will be stimulated by this Budget - it seems definite there will not be a deficit because tax receipts should increase. 
Despite the extravagant words of the Treasurer, it is obvious that taxation reductions will mean little to the low income earner, lt is true that those who have high incomes and those who are fortunate to own large estates will gain because of the reduced tax scale. But one should consider the words of Professor Hogan of the University of Sydney and see what he has put before thinking people. He said that the percentage rise in income as a result of the new tax scales reveals some interesting facts. The gain on a taxable income of $2,000 would be 1.54 per cent for a single man, 1.56 per cent for a man with a wife and child and 3.57 per cent for a man with a wife and 3 children. However, in respect of an income of $15,000 the percentage rise in income after tax would be 4.62 per cent for a single person, 4.90 per cent for a married man with one child and 5.30 per cent for a married man with 3 children. These figures clearly reveal that the person who has a high income will do much better under this Budget than the person in the lower income bracket. This result, of course, one would expect from a graduated scale of income tax. 
This Budget is notorious for what it fails to do. In particular it fails the family. The family is neglected, abandoned and unwanted by this Government which gives practical aid to the zero population advocates. Those opposed to the family concept would certainly find comfort in what the Government has done in ignoring the wants of the family - the people who have built and who are maintaining our country; those who are upholding the standards upon which this nation has been built. In this year of handouts there is nothing for the family, which is the base of the development of our nation. There has been no increase in family endowment. The payment of 50c which was granted in 1950 for the first child has not been altered. After the laspe of 22 years this benefit remains unaltered. This is the sorry record of the present Government. The $1 which was granted in 1948 for the second child remains the same today despite the staggering increase in the cost of living which has occurred since then. As I have said, the Government has ignored the needs of the family, lt has disregarded the people who are playing a most important part in building this country. 
The maternity allowance has not been changed since the anti-Labor Government came to office in 1949. It remains the same. Again the families - the people who are responsible for maintaining this country - are the ones who are suffering most because of the blindness and hardhearted attitude of this Government which through the years has shown scant respect for the family. When family endowment was first introduced in Australia in 1927 - it came into operation on 22nd July 1927 under the Lang administration in New South Wales - that legislation was bitterly opposed in a most cruel and nasty fashion by the Henleys and the Ness' and others who sat on the LiberalConservative side of the Parliament. At that time 5 shillings a week was granted to children under 14 years of age. This was at a time when the basic wage was about 3 10s a week. Today this Government has failed to take any action to increase the endowment given to the first child which still remains at 50c. 
The first endowment legislation was introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament on 7th April 1941. The late Harold Holt, a former Prime Minister, spoke of the value of this legislation when introducing it. He spoke of the 5 shillings for each child other than the first under 16 years of age. To those who might have been critics of the scheme he said that it would provide a high return in human happiness. The Government should realise that if it wants to have a high return in human happiness today action should be taken now to correct this scandalous state of affairs. Families have been neglected in this shocking and shameless way. I put it to the Government: 'Please do something about this matter and do it now', because if action is not taken now undoubtedly action will be taken by an incoming Labor government to correct this scandalously anomalous position. 
The Government has failed the families of Australia. Prices have gone up out of reach for them and pressure has been placed on mothers to leave their homes in search of work, to the neglect of their children. Noble words are spoken by people who deplore juvenile delinquency, while mothers are compelled to leave their homes and go out to work in order to help provide the necessary income to pay for radios, television, instalments on the home and other debts which obviously occur in the modern home. 
What does money buy today? It buys precious little. In the days when endowment was fixed at 50c, that amount of money would probably buy 2 lb of butter. Today 50c could not buy 1 lb of butter. Also, fillet, sirloin or a good rump steak would be a luxury in many homes today. I put it to the Government that if there is one area in which this Budget has failed - and failed in a most grievous way - it is in neglecting the children, and also the mothers of families who carry the great burden of high costs at present. The Government has failed to take any action in regard to costs. It has refused to act and has allowed prices to go on rising. It is true that from time to time members of the Government make some comment about wages and salaries and direct attention to the fact that these are increasing. The cost of dear money, dear land and dear foodstuffs and the ability of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to increase the prices of its iron and steel products without reference to anyone and then to record handsome profits go unnoticed by this Government. The Budget strategy of 1971 of curbing inflation is a casualty; the Government has passed that over for (he time being. What was not feasible or sound last year is feasible and practical today. Last year's Budget surplus of $600m is spending money today, proving conclusively that money can be obtained when and where it is required. 
Another deficiency in the Government is its promise on the means test. This promise does not form part of the Budget documents in any way. This is just another promise. Every honourable member will recall that the non -Labor parties were returned to power in 1949 on a promise to abolish the means test and to put value back into the pound. But what has occurred under the anti-Labor governments is the abolition of the pound and the maintenance of the means test. In fact, the pound has disappeared; it has given way to the dollar, which in purchasing power is also a casualty. This Budget, is not a good Budget; nor can a Budget be good if it harms or hurts people. The means test is one way of penalising thrifty people. The Government's promises have been made over an over again. When election time comes, another promise is made. This has been the pattern of action throughout the years. 
I have looked over some questions 1 have asked in regard to this matter. On 6th February 1952 1 directed a ques.ion to 
Athol Townley, the then Minister for Social Services, who went on record as saying: 
As for the means test and superannuated persons, I assure the honourable member that the officers of my Department and I have devoted  a  considerable amount of time to the preparation of  a  scheme to abolish the means test. We have made some real progress, and at the appropriate time, and in the appropriate way, a scheme will bc announced. 
That statement was made in 1952 and all that the people have received now is another promise that something will be done about this matter. This is another area which has been neglected by the Government. 
Another matter which should win the approval of people living in country areas is the question of decentralisation. Again, reference to action on this issue is missing from the Budget Speech. No reference has been made in the Budget to decentralisation or the dispersal of population from the overcrowded cities to the countryside. No reference has been made to the building up of our country towns and villages for the maintenance of our way of life in the country areas. It has been stated in the classical way that decentralisation means to break up the centralisation of authority, as in government or industry, and to distribute among them more places and local authorities. Lip service will be paid to this issue during election time. Much will be said about decentralisation. But, if one looks at the facts of the case, a disturbing picture is revealed. 
By the year 2000, Sydney will have  a  population of 5.5 million. The only other cities in New South Wales which have more than 31,000 people are Newcastle and Wollongong. All the mainland capitals will double their population in the next 30 years. It has been claimed by a competent authority that SI 20m would be saved by locating 500,000 people in country towns and cities. In the light of the tremendous cost of maintaining our inflated capital cities, surely the Government should be stirred to action. According to a report made by the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board in New South Wales, $l,000m will be required to provide water and sewerage services in the next 10 years and, in any event, 1.25 million people in Australia are not likely to have water and sewerage services in that time. 
These are the problems which constantly are being posed - the question of the big cities, their growth and pollution and the cost of providing transportation. In Sydney, the Warringah Expressway to date has cost $25m. It is estimated that the remainder of the expressway will cost between $60m and $70m. The Western Distributor has cost $4.3m; the Southern Expressway has cost $15m and the extension will cost $14m; the first stage of the Northwestern Expressway will cost $30m for a distance of only H miles. A similar story can be told of Melbourne and of other great capitals throughout Australia and the world. It is estimated that the Eastern Suburbs Railway will cost $130m. In Melbourne, it is estimated that the underground railway loop will cost $1 17.3m. These sums of money could be giving practical development in our country areas, where production occurs and where the nation's worth and strength are being generated. 
I put it to the House that the Commonwealth Government, in the long run and for the benefit of this nation, should provide financial aid to assist in the process of decentralisation. The Government should transfer government departments from the cities to the country areas. It should provide uniform telephone charges throughout the nation. The payroll tax, which has been handed over to the States, should be lifted from industries being established in country districts. I go on record as saying that the resources in the country districts should be developed for the purpose of helping this nation. The official committee on decentralisation met 4 times in 7 years. A report has been promised and, because an election is coming near, a report will be presented. However, this Government is not interested in decentralisation. 
Only recently I led a deputation of mayors and leaders of industry to the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  in regard to a number of matters. One question which was raised referred to a new town project for Wallerawang. In his written reply to me, the Minister said that the matter was a State responsibility but that he would refer it to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  'for information purposes'. This is the fashion in which the Government deals with the question of decen tralisation. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  in replying to a question I directed to him recently, said: 
This matter is deserving of consideration. I will discuss it with the  Deputy  Prime Minister and if we think it is desirable we will take a submission on it to Cabinet. 
No word has been said about any submission on this matter having been taken to Cabinet and no action has been taken to deal with this important question of decentralisation, to provide for the development of this country and to locate people in country districts in order to give them the opportunity to live better and healthier lives in an environment which would be to their advantage and to the advantage of their children. 
The Budget completely disregards these matters. These are the important questions that the Government overlooks. The question of settling people in country areas and so saving the expenditure of vast sums of money is of tremendous importance; yet in Australia today some 112,000 people are unemployed, most of whom are in country districts. When one looks hurriedly through the list of country towns and cities in the unemployment statistics one sees that in Dubbo 1,117 men and 382 women are unemployed; in Kempsey 425 men and 282 women are unemployed; in Maitland 457 men and 254 women are out of work; in Parkes 305 men and 187 women are unemployed; and in Wagga Wagga 468 men and 334 women are unemployed. This is the situation throughout the country districts. 
The Government could help by transferring government departments to country centres. The statistics will give honourable members a knowledge of the change in occupations of the Australian work force. In 1881, 44 per cent of the work force was engaged in primary industry, 26.5 per cent was engaged in secondary industry and 29.5 per cent was engaged in tertiary industry. According to the last figures available, in 1966, only 10.6 per cent were engaged in primary industry, 27 per cent in secondary industry and 62.4 per cent in tertiary in-service industries. These facts are unmistakable. They reveal that the Government has failed. Yet it is asking the electors to vote for it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member should use the name of the electorate. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who, in a Labor government would be the Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, has stated frequently - and it has been supported by the Leader of the Opposition - that Labor would acquire or resume large areas of land around ail the capital cities and major towns in Australia, that it would develop this land by providing roads, water, sewerage and electricity and that it would lease the land to the people at a low subsidised interest rate. Can anyone here imagine what that would cost? The Labor Party would set up an enormous central commission in Canberra to cont-ol this great scheme for urban development. 
The honourable member for Reid is on record also as saying that Labor will increase war service homes loans to $15,000 at 3  i  per cent interest, broaden the scheme to include all personnel of the permanent forces - I do not know whether honourable members realise the millions of dollars this would cost - and progressively include others in the community. 1 presume that he means unionists. I have no doubt that  Mr Hawke  will soon enter business as a major developer in order to join in the scheme of things. In this massive socialist conception Labor has promised to take over the functions of the States and of local government by building transport systems, theatres and a myriad of public buildings in order to diversify the population. That is all stated in Labor's plan. Of course, the Builders Labourers Federation, under  Mr Mundey,  a well known communist, will no doubt dictate what is to be built and where it is to be built - it is doing that at the present time. I have not time to go into the details. 
No-one will doubt that if the Labor Party becomes the government this year, a universal 35-hour week will be approved, which will add hundreds of millions of dollars to the cost of production, thus increasing the cost of living and making competition with other countries impossible. All these promises make an enormous increase in taxation inevitable. The Leader of the Opposition is strangely silent on the question of taxation. He knows that it is not the rich who will pay; the lower and middle income earners will be hit hard, and they know that they will be hit hard. I do not have any more time to go into this matter, but it is not only in the field of irresponsible promises and the destructive effect of high taxation that we have to fear the possibility of this country being controlled by a Labor government. If we get a Labor government it will be without doubt under the direction of the left wing trade unions, dominated by the most powerful man in Australia, Bob Hawke, and I leave it at that. 
The Treasury has been acknowledged as the fortress of authority in the field of government. This evening J want to plead for the strengthening of the Treasury in the work of compassion, in the recognition of hardship and injustice, and to ask that action be taken by the Government through the Treasury to overcome problems which are hurtful and burdensome to many taxpayers in this country. There is no doubt that the seal of government policy is clearly impressed .011 Treasury decisions. From time to time personalities may try to bend the work of the Treasury. People like  Sir John.  McEwen may have certain ideas. Nevertheless, in the long run the Treasury prevails, 
I want to plead this evening for those people who have suffered disadvantage because of Treasury policy and decisions of the Government which are hurtful to many people in our country.. We hear a great deal about costs and charges but in seeking the basic cause of costs and charges we would go inevitably to matters related to the Treasury, to dear money, to the problems of costs which have been permitted to develop in this country with the knowledge and understanding of the Government and the Treasury. I have here the reports of hire purchase companies. Without exception these companies year after year are reporting inflated profits, the increased costs and charges being borne by the people of this country. 
When we think of costs and charges we must think of dear money because a person who borrows money for the purpose of building and owning a home, buying a motor car or furniture and furnishings, for industry or for any other purpose, is tied closely to the question of money. If money is dear and hard to get the burden of charges must inevitably be passed on to the community. I can speak only briefly this evening and I want to refer to other areas of hardship in which the Treasury could do much to help to overcome problems. I refer to. the cases of children of people living in country districts, who are sick and require medical attention. No specialists are available in the country districts or there may be. a lack of a particular type of specialist or hospital, or someone with an understanding of the particular ailment. 
It is inevitable, that such people go to a capita) city, Closely related to the problem of sickness and the field of administration of the Department of Health is the question of expense that falls upon a parent or husband. These are not tax deductible items. They should be, and action should be taken to ease the burden of people who are distressed by sickness, and who have great mental problems and anguish as a result. I ask that people who are disadvantaged in this way be given consideration. I ask that the advisers who report to the Treasurer, even at this late hour with an election pending within the next month or so, request him to take action to overcome this particular problem. 
I refer also to the disadvantaged parents of children in isolated areas who are required to take their children when ill to the hospital in the nearest country town. No consideration is given to the costs incurred by parents in making such journeys, say, once a week, or in taking their children to school, bringing them home at the end of the week, or the costs involved in education generally. This is a matter of very great concern in country districts because parents are obliged to travel great distances. They have to bear additional costs. This all adds to the hardship of living in the countryside. It is a blow against the efforts to retain people in country districts. We glibly talk about decentralisation but basically the problem is that we must keep in the country the people who live in the country now. By these actions through the Treasury we are helping to drive people from the country. Tax concessions in this field should be given to people. 
I briefly refer to the problem of sales tax which bears with equal severity on all people in the community. The aged pensioners and the families all pay the same rate of sales tax as the wealthiest person in the land. Indeed this is another injustice. Tonight I also refer to the people who must travel great distances to obtain work. I think that consideration ought to be given to people who have to travel great distances to earn their living in order to maintain their homes. This- is one of the outstanding injustices at the present time. Taxation consideration should, be given to those who own a car or some kind of motor vehicle and who are required to go to some distant agricultural project, timber industry, mine or something of that kind and to the great mass of: commuters who are compelled to travel from distant centres to the metropolitan areas day by day and week by week for their employment. These people have been . driven from the city because of high costs and charges. They have gone to the country districts to obtain cheaper land on which to build their homes. But immediately they face additional burdens, charges and considerable inconvenience in. that they are called upon to travel to their place' of employment. If they own a motor car. and use it to go to work they receive no consideration at all while the great company executive, the man holding a very high position, has his charges paid by his 'company and is protected in ' this way. I. think ' it is necessary that action should be' taken immediately to overcome this problem. 
In the Blue Mountains area of my electorate of Macquarie, last year 3,547 commuters were paying for tickets. In addition to this number a great many more people were using motor vehicles and other means to get to work. This situation is most unsatisfactory and immediate action should be taken to remedy this injustice because it is an injustice within the law of this country. We blindly accept this. It is not good enough. The Treasurer should act to see that this is corrected. The other matter to which I shall briefly refer is the problem of local government and the need for the Commonwealth Government, through the Treasury, to see that finance is provided to local government to carry out the numerous duties which have been increasing incessantly for the local authorities who are building this nation. With every migrant there is a new job for local government. There is water, sewerage, housing and all the associated things such as school libraries, play centres, health centres and many of these additional responsibilities which local government is called upon to provide. In the last 25 years the Commonwealth debt has decreased, State debts have increased 4 times, local government debts have increased 9 times and semigovernment debts have increased 12 times. I draw attention to these matters because they need to be corrected. I point out that those who own property - the ratepayers - are paying some 60 per cent odd of the entire receipts of local government, 24 per cent coming from fees and charges and only 14 per cent coming from government grants and assistance in this field. I ask the Minister to have regard to these important matters. Instead of giving platitudinous support to local governments we should act in future to help in these directions. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service by saying that the Minister is aware of the serious unemployment problem existing throughout Australia. I ask the Minister to give special attention to the number of workless in country districts where few opportunities exist for employment. I remind him that in New South Wales more than 18,000 unemployed exist in country districts compared with 15,000 in the metropolitan area of Sydney. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of the dire financial circumstances of farmers, especially wheat growers, in the central west and north western areas of New South Wales in particular, due to a long and disastrous drought. Is he prepared to recommend that financial grants be made to those producers so that they may have their next plantings prepared and may hope for another season? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his Government has endorsed the Bathurst-Orange growth centre proposal announced by the New South Wales Government. As Federal financial support and co-operation will be required effectively to promote the project, will the Prime Minister say whether adequate financial assistance will be given by the Australian Government? Finally, will the right honourable gentleman tell the House what measures are to be adopted to assist in the establishment of the first growth centre in New South Wales? 
The estimates for the Department of National Development provide an opportunity for honourable members to discuss the broad question of the activities of the Department and the direction of that important part of Australia's national growth and development. Where development has occurred there have been eruptions of multi-national corporations which have been aided and abetted by the Government in the plunder of our resources, lt is true that the Bureau of Mineral Resources has made a significant contribution in providing technical information to oil and mineral search companies. The Division of National Mapping also has rendered outstanding service to the Parliament, the Minister and the nation. The Joint Coal Board with its limited scope and application has given valuable aid to the coal mining industry. What is wrong is the refusal of the Government to plan the development of this nation. Earlier today we had a spectacle of the Government refusing to deal with the broad spectrum of development and the legality of the coastline of our country. I will not discuss that in detail. 
There is a need, if this country is to go forward, to have clearcut plans for the development of the nation - not as to what some company will do in developing some part of the nation, but for the Government itself to co-ordinate the development of this country, to have regard for our resources and to consider what will be required in the years that lie ahead. A national energy policy is long overdue but the Government and the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  steadfastly refuse to do anything about this. The Minister has said that it is a complex matter. Indeed it it, but this complex matter has been dealt with by other nations in a most effective way. Countries that we regard as less competent than ourselves, countries less endowed with natural resources, have adopted policies for energy and power which make this country seem to be a backward provincial area. It is necessary to have an energy policy which will deal with the production and marketing of our resources with regard, firstly, to the needs of this nation. It is necessary to bring into harmony all of the nation's resources and to plan their utilisation and management. 
National requirements must be placed first and distribution must be wisely planned and considered, not for the Australia of today or for 100 years but for some thousands of years. It is depressing to find that most of the thinking in regard to these matters is: What can we export? What can we give to some other part of the world? Let us remember that our resources - these basic qualities of energy - belong to all Australians. This truth has application in all forms of energy - of coal, oil, natural gas, nuclear power and other agencies of power. I am particularly concerned with the position in the coal mining industry for, in the district which I represent in this House, there have been dismissals from minefields because of the lack of understanding and the lack of direction between the various States of the Commonwealth in the production of coal and its marketing. A basic charter was laid down by the Labor Government of the Chifley period for the Joint Coal Board when it was established and that charter, if extended throughout Australia, would provide a blue print for the development of the coal mining industry. When we think of this industry we should have regard to what has occurred over recent years. 
Frequently honourable members on the Government side draw attention to the fact that production is not satisfactory and that we have to do better, but in the coal mining industry production has increased substantially while the number engaged in the industry has fallen considerably. Let us look at the facts. The number employed in the industry in 1952 was 19,000 and it fell to 14,000 last year. During this time production rose from 15 million tons in 1952 to 35.2 million tons last year. The western coal field of New South Wales has the highest output per man/ shift - 14.72 tons - although the number employed in the industry in that field has fallen from 2.519 in 1952 to 577 at the present time. These figures are certainly outstanding. This achievement was commented upon in the report of the Joint Coal Board. 
It is not the capacity of those in the industry to produce which is the problem facing the coal mining industry. They have been able to produce and have done so very well indeed. The problem facing the industry is one of organisation, control and management. We can win the coal but what needs to be acknowledged is that marketing and management require very careful consideration and attention, and the only way that this consideration and attention can be given so that the industry can be planned on a worthwhile basis is for some form of national understanding of this matter to be exhibited. 1 make a plea to the Government to indicate, even at this late stage, some change of heart. The Commonwealth Government should not permit the resources of any part of Australia to be plundered by open cut mining without regard to the future. The Commonwealth has a responsibility to all of the people of Australia and should not hesitate to declare where it stands on this special aspect of the development of our country. 
I desire to refer also to our oil industry. Here again the Commonwealth Government, without interest in this matter, is prepared to spend money through the Bureau of Mineral Resources for the exploration for oil. It grants subsidies to a considerable extent - $121. 6m to 12th September last - and gives taxation concessions as well as assistance in many other ways, but when gas and oil are found, the Commonwealth Government retreats from the scene and allows the multi-national corporations to dictate their own policies in regard to this important source of energy in this country. This is not good enough and the Government should declare where it stands. The Labor Party faces this matter with a full knowledge of its responsibilities and, when in power, will introduce a national fuel policy. We will have regard to all forms of energy. I can only hope that at the next election the Labor Party will be given an opportunity to ensure that these great reserves of energy producing material in this country are used for the development of this nation. Our first thought will not be the exportation of these great assets which belong to the people of Australia; our energies will be bent towards building this nation. 
-The consideration of the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department opens up an exceedingly wide field of debate for honourable members. I should like to say first of all that 1 have the greatest respect for the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I pay a tribute to officers of his Department for the unfailing courtesy and observance of protocol and foi generally conforming to normal civilised standards. In discussing the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department I want to point out that there is a need for a searching inquiry into all aspects of the Department, including the financial arrangements, the structure of the Department, the telecommunications section, the provision of mail and postal services, the provision of television and broadcasting facilities, charges for licences, the provision of  Telephones  and the denial of  some  services that should be available to every person in Australia. 
I am particularly concerned about financial arrangements. Quite frequently the balance sheets of the Postmaster-General's Department misleadingly reveal losses. I say that because, as the further statements provided with the balance sheet reveal, a heavy burden of interest is being borne by the Department - a burden that should not be carried by those who use the postal and telegraph services of this country. The Postmaster-General's Department is a service department which provides services to the people of this country. It ought to be treated as a service department in a growing, developing nation. 
Let us look at the facts. Firstly, the balance sheet of the Department reveals a net profit of $59. 8m for the last financial year. The telecommunications service had a profit of $71. lm, but a loss occurred in the postal section of $11. 3m. That, of course, is utterly misleading. I wish to protest against the manner in which the taxpayers of this country - the people who use the postal and telegraph services - are called upon to pay interest on their own money, which is precisely what is happening. The taxpayers' money is advanced by the Treasury, for the provision of these services. In turn, the users of postal and telegraph facilities are called upon to pay interest on that money. According to page 24 of the annual report of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1972, $131,374,198 was paid in interest, which reduced the overall profit to $59,798,942. 
It is a disturbing state of affairs that this burden should be carried by people who use telephones in the countryside. In the city, in industry and in the development of this country. Telephones are used by the sick, the aged and the infirm. I think a most unsatisfactory state of affairs exists. Whilst this situation exists, the PostmasterGeneral's Department is obviously compelled to increase charges, but by increasing charges it is adding to the burden on industry and the community gener ally. 1 think this should be stopped. I believe that there is need for a review of the whole of the financial arrangements of the Department. The structure of the. Postmaster-General's Department should be thoroughly investigated. We should see just what has been happening with regard to not only the postal section and the telecommunications section - I am opposed to their division; I think they should remain united as one service helping the development of this country - but also the mail services and see what can be done to improve them. There was a time when there were 2 mail deliveries a day in my town and in many other country towns. The service has now been reduced to one mail delivery. In other cases measures have been taken which have denied services to people. 1 think that calls for protest by everyone interested in the development of our country. 
I note from the annual report of the Post Office that the number of unsatisfied demands for telephones throughout the country is 65,369, which is quite a substantial number. In my own electorate of Macquarie there is quite a substantial number of people who have been waiting for telephones to be connected. I have before me a statement prepared by the Department on the number of people who have been waiting for telephones to be connected. Some of these people have been waiting for up to 3 years. A lady at Katoomba has been waiting since 10th September 1969. Others have been waiting 2 years, 18 months and so on. Is this the measure of the service that is to continue to be given in the future? A halt should be called to this practice. We ought to reverse our attitudes. It is not good enough that people who require telephones for health or employment reasons have to wait so long to have them connected. People have written to me and advised me that their jobs depend upon the availability of a telephone. I received a letter from a constituent in which he told me that his work was satisfactory but that he would lose his job if he did not have a telephone connected to his house. He included a letter which confirmed this statement. 
I also have before me a list of people who are still waiting for telephones, particularly in the eastern portion of my electorate. In the Penrith area there were 896 deferred applications as at 30th September 1972. That is not good enough for a city on the outskirts of Sydney. In the case of Springwood there were 308 deferred applications despite a dramatic improvement in recent times. I am indebted to  Mr O'Donnell,  the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in New South Wales, for assisting me in this regard. The position at the present time is far from satisfactory. It is necessary to go on and consider other  aspects  of telephone services. At the time of the Budget last year or the year before the Postmaster-General came into this House and made a statement which was welcomed by everybody. He said that telephone services would be provided in the country up to 15 miles from the line. We all thought that that was an acknowledgement of the problems of people in country areas and of the need for people following rural pursuits to have a telephone with which to communicate with markets and their neighbours and be able to discharge their business. Despite that it has been exceedingly difficult to have this promise honoured. That is one of the matters which cause me considerable concern. I know of a person who lived only 3 telephone poles from the nearest telephone line and who had paid money to be connected but had been denied a telephone for quite an extended period. I also know of a person in another area a couple of miles away who was denied a telephone although bis name appeared in the telephone book. 1 wish to pass on to another subject, namely, the services provided by radio and television stations. I think a thorough inquiry should be conducted into the quality of service provided by and the administration of not only the national stations but also some other stations - particularly into the manner in which they interpret public requirements and demands. One area thai is of particular concern to me and about which I have written to the Postmaster-General's Department on numerous occasions is the need for translators in the Portland, Cullen Bullen and Wallerawang areas. I was advised that this service was to be provided in June of this year. June has passed and it has not been provided. I have been advised since then that translators will be established and services will be available- 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I congratulate him on the presentation of his amendment. It deals in an effective way with the proposals made by the Govern ment in the Bill before the House. Are we engaged in some sort of fanciful preelection programme or is the House engaged in the consideration of measures to halt the flow of people from the countryside to the big cities? Are we serious in trying to build the economy of the countryside so that there will not be a continuation of the sort of condition which has existed in this country over many years past? Report after report from the Department of Labour and National Service indicates a deplorable situation in the countryside. We know of the stagnation in the rural economy but quite frequently we overlook the unhappiness, the sadness and the distress of people who live in the countryside, the people who are out of work because of mechanisation in the rural industry, because of a fall off in farm income, and because of the. rural recession with all its implications. Unemployment has grown in the countryside and it is difficult to get anybody to do anything about it. 
Recently I asked the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to look at the figures issued by his Department and to do something to reduce the number of those who are unemployed. I have in my hand a copy of the figures made available by the Department of Labour and National Service which relate to centres such as Albury, Dubbo, Kempsey, Maitland, Narrabri, Parkes and Wagga Wagga. All of these figures emphasise the disastrous unemployment position existing in the country areas. The first thing any government should do is to halt the flow of people from the country by providing employment and job opportunities in the country so that people living in the country will remain there. If that is done as a preliminary step there, will be some hope of success for other plans to follow. 
When one looks at the measure before us - the Prime Minister's second reading speech is a delightful statement - one is encouraged to believe that at long last the Commonwealth Government is to become involved in decentralisation. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  said that of course no authority can do anything; it is a question of the Parliament making decisions. I would like to tell the honourable member that the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was estab- 
Iished by a Labor Government. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority had the authority to act; it acted, and performed one of the outstanding engineering feats of the world. This proves conclusively that an authority, given the power, can go ahead and implement policies. 
The Prime Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
In addition to the normal provision for an annual report, the Authority is required to report to the Prime Minister not later than 30th June 1973 on matters relating to urban and regional development during the S-year period thereafter. 
It is not the Government's intention that the Authority should produce by that time a definitive statement on a national urban and regional development strategy. 
No policy by June next year! When will all of this begin? Will this proposal follow other decisions which have been made in the past such as the dream time performance of the Commonwealth State Officials Committee on Decentralisation which was established in 1964 but which to the end of 1971 had met on only 4 occasions? Is this the sort of tempo of the development of our countryside and the decentralisation of industry? Is this what we are to expect? 
The Prime Minister emphasised over and over again in his interesting second reading speech that there will be complete cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States. 'Co-operation' and 'partnership' are words that he used throughout his speech. The Prime Minister said: 
The Government believes that unless we embark on a vigorous, imaginative and responsible programme of urban and regional development, in partnership with the States, our efforts to secure a better quality of life for the Australian community through a wide variety of existing programmes will be compromised. 
It has to be done through the States. But what is the view of the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development and his Department? Is he pleased with what is contained in the official CommonwealthState report on decentralisation in which the views of his State did not receive the consideration they deserve? The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 1 1th October 1972 carried the headline: 'New South Wales Attacks Federal decentralisation report'. The newspaper states: 
The N.S.W. Department of Decentralisation and Development has criticised an official CommonwealthSlate report on decentralisation. 
It did so in a supplementary statement to the report, tabled in Parliament today by the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon. 
In the report, there is unanimous agreement by State and Commonwealth officials favouring a policy of cautious selective decentralisation. 
But the N.S.W. department's supplementary statement claims that the rest of the document underestimates the urgency of the need for decentralisation and claims that N.S.W. - Sydney in particular - faces the most critical problems of city congestion. 
I approve of the statement made by the N.S.W. Department of Decentralisation and Development. It has spoken the truth. This is an urgent and growing problem. We are faced with problems of pollution, of transport, excessive costs of getting expressways out of and into a city, the question of the Eastern Suburbs railway and the other means of transportation and the fact that work in the fields of sewerage and hygiene in Sydney is almost coming to a halt. Surely these are matters that ought to receive consideration. 
We are faced with a problem in the way in which the metropolitan area of Sydney is growing. The canker is spreading from the heart of the city out over the countryside where suburb is built upon suburb without regard to adequate town planning for land control and use. This is one of the most important questions affecting the city. The growth of the city of Sydney should be contained by a green belt such as the one which existed before the activities of the developers, but which has long since disappeared. There is need for great parklands to be established around the city area. I can only hope that the proposed authority will take some action to implement a policy of this kind. But we must bear in mind that such policies cannot be put into effect unless there is co-operation between the Commonwealth and State governments. 
The Prime Minister referred over and over in his second reaching speech to Commonwealth-State co-operation. That in itself is a very fine thing. But only a few days ago I asked the Prime Minister, in the House, whether he would endorse the growth centre proposal for BathurstOrange as announced by the New South Wales Government. I asked whether he would provide adequate funds for the implementation of this decision of the New South Wales Government. The Prime Minister said: 
Both he Deputy Prime Minister and I have given answers to this question already and I will make sure that those answers are made available to  the  honourable gentleman. I should make it clear to him that the statutory authority has not yet been established. Until it is established no request can bc considered or feasibility studies carried out. 
New South Wales has acted promptly, definitely, clearly and made a decision. But the Commonwealth Government, dragging its feet as ever, is not prepared to take action to support what has been done in New South Wales in regard to a practical measure for commencing the first growth centre in New South Wales. Docs the answer of the Prime Minister mean that the Commonwealth Government will not support it? I would like the Minister who will be responsible for implementing the new Act to declare without equivocation just where the Commonwealth stands in respect of this matter. It is all very well to have proposals such as this. But we have to look at the overall problem of our nation and countryside, the need to build our economy and the question of our resources and resource development. Just as there are, and will be, selective growth centres it is also necessary to have regard to the question of the resources of the nation. We have to ask: What are the resources; what are we going to do about them; and what are we going to do in country areas which have water, minerals, electricity, power and transportation? Are these places to be completely bypassed? Does the legislation before us envisage some sort of scheme which will allow one country town to be bled and drained to support another country town? These are matters which ought to be spelt out without any doubt at all. 
If decentralisation is to have the meaning that I think it should have I want to see not so much in the way of vast sums being given to the development of great new cities on the outskirts of the capital cities as I want to see development occurring in the countryside. Countries throughout, the world have been able to build great capitals and cities of significance and this can be done here providing we are prepared to utilise the resources which are available in great quantity in this country. But to begin with we have what appears to be a divided authority and the Commonwealth Government not working as one with the State of 
New South Wales. What the Federal Government will do in regard to the other States remains to be seen. I can only hope that this legislation which has come into the Parliament to be decided in its closing hours does not mean that it is an election arrangement which will form some part of the history of the House but Will not be translated into action at the earliest opportunity. 
Speaking now of development, what has the Government done in a practical way about our resources, such as natural gas? By good fortune great reserves of natural gas are available in the centre of Australia in Palm Valley - Albert Namatjira country. Is it not logical that we should use this great resource for the development of the interior, to stimulate industry and give people the opportunity to develop the economy of the country? Despite what may be said now or has been said in the past, people do not rush off to the big cities merely for the sake of going to a city. Invariable they are compelled to go by economic necessity or in search of employment, for education or for health reasons, because the cities have greater facilities and specialisation in medicine. These are the reasons why people leave the country. But wherever a project is developed in the country, whether it be at Weipa, Rum Jungle or anywhere else in the northwest or in Australia generally, and work is provided, people will leave the city and go to those places. 
It is up to the Commonwealth to look at the development of the north and for once away from the dazzle and shine of the city, lt should consider what it is costing the nation to continue developing the cities and then to spend this money in the development of the inland of our country. Whenever decentralisation is discussed invariably it is said: 'What a vast sum of money would be needed to build a new city or to develop some of the older cities or towns in the country.' But certainly it is not as much as is required to maintain the great capital cities with the problems of urban renewal and the development of transport services and other allied facilities. I put it to the House that we have a bounden duty, a responsibility to the people of this country, to consider the quality of life, and when we consider the quality of life we should think in terms of building up great centres of population so that people in the country can have the type of life that is available in most cities, with all the entertainment and joys of the city, while remaining in the country with its pure air and other advantages. This is the sort of Australia I would like to think that we will spend our efforts and money and bend our endeavours in every possible way to create. 
We should be thinking too, while building our growth centres, of the tourist industry which is one of the most effective means of building our population. We should never forget that at present there has been a trend which has existed for some considerable time of fewer people employed in primary and secondary industries while considerably more are now employed in tertiary industries. We have to look to the tertiary industries and to tourism as one means of helping to develop the inland of our country. That is important. Educational establishments too must be encouraged to expand and develop. If this measure were a serious one it would have been welcomed by the Parliament. The amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Reid quite rightly and properly draws attention to the obvious deficiencies of the measure and asks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because in its present form it creates merely an investigatory and advisory body which will have no authority. These words are clear cut and unambiguous and express the view of the Opposition. For my part I would be prepared to remain in this Parliament for a further week if necessary so that a Bill worthy of the national Parliament, a Bill which is in harmony with the States, might be passed by this national Parliament and the whole nation might advance as one in doing something of a worthwhile nature for decentralisation in this country, the building of the countryside and the restoring of confidence among the people who have lived in the country and blazed the trail and built this nation. 
Dorothea Mackellar, an Australian poet of outstanding merit whose love for Australia was tellingly expressed in her stirring verse, wrote of this country as a wilful lavish land. Our natural resources are immense and we are blessed with reserves of coal, iron and bauxite in great and wonderful supply. The words of Dorothea Mackellar are undoubtedly true; this is a wilful, lavish land. Whilst we have uranium, nickel, metals and minerals of almost every description we have been content to permit the careless plunder of our resources disregarding the responsibilities of nation building and the establishment of a country that will live through the centuries and emerge in the Pacific and Indian oceans region as one of the great nations of all time. Our untapped wealth of petroleum products is only now being revealed. With all of these resources we have been content, unfortunately and regretfully, to behave as economic colonials, content with the exportation of our great wealth, disregarding almost entirely the need for using our resources in the development of this nation and its population. We should build a way of life in this country which will be second to none in the world, a type of life which will give leadership to people throughout the world so that we might be able, because of our economic strength and our technical knowhow, to assist other nations in the forward march to a better life and better living conditions. 
Instead of purposefully developing our resources in building this nation we have been content to go along in the ways of the early settlers of this country when Australia, and New South Wales in the first instance, was merely a colonial possession. When we think of the immensity of our resources and the opportunities that are given to us for the development of Australia I deplore the fact that we have no plans for the purpose of developing our country and for the harnessing of our resources. I heard the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  speak this evening of the development of northern Australia. In recent times northern Australia has been virtually forgotten when this Parliament has been discussing development. We hear about it when it comes to the plunder of our resources - the quarrying of our iron ore, the open cut process of obtaining our rich coals for export to the markets of the world, the export of bauxite from the Gulf country and so on. But as for thoughtfulness about the development of this country through the processing of our own raw materials, little has been said and precious little has been done. 1 applaud what the honourable member for Dawson had to say. I would like to think that an overall pattern of development for this nation would emerge so that we would take into consideration all of the factors necessary for the development of our country. It is the popular thing these days to criticise the Ord River scheme as if a vast sum of money is being wasted and lost to the country. I disagree entirely with this criticism. The conservation of water in this country is of tremendous importance and is necessary for the development of Australia. But side by side with the conservation of water there should be other planned development. I am particularly pleased to know that the Government of Western Australia is certainly looking further afield than the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia is and has a plan for the Pilbara region of Western Australia. This is a plan that the Commonwealth should readily support for the future development of our nation. The Pilbara is an area which is very rich in resources, but if it is to be developed substantial sums will be required. 
Instead of vast sums of money being poured into our great capital cities for the building of skyscrapers and so on, we want to see more activity in the country and, in my opinion, in north Australia. If we are to develop the north it is imperative in a sense that the Minister for National Development in the Commonwealth sphere should work in close understanding with the Minister for Shipping and Transport for the completion of the north-south standard gauge railway line. This line should be completed without delay. I would also like to suggest that a further transcontinental railway should be built from east to west, from the Pacific in Queensland - from somewhere around Mackay, Townsville or thereabouts - along a line to be surveyed across Australia to Onslow, Port Hedland or somewhere in Western Australia. Such a transport system would give the north of Australia the opportunity to progress and develop. 
Whilst these are perhaps visionary thoughts today, we must remember that those who advocated the transcontinental railway line in the first place were opposed, criticised and condemned. This railway line was started by a Labor government. It was an outstanding achievement of Labor in government just as the Snowy Mountains scheme was an outstanding contribution to nation building. The Bell Bay project in Tasmania also was a hallmark in national development. I put it to the House this evening that we have to look at the north as we have looked at the south, not for the purpose of evacuation and retreat but for the purpose of development so that we in this country will be able to fulfil our destiny in a thorough way. Not only are overseas companies plundering our resources, but it is easy to understand that they have been encouraged by their control of our resources. Overseas companies controlled 53 per cent of our metal production in 1964 and 69 per cent in 1968; in fuel they controlled 18 per cent in 1964 and 40 per cent in 1968; in other forms of energy and resources they controlled 20 per cent in 1964 and 29 per cent in 1968. The degree of foreign control in the Australian mining industry rose from 39 per cent in 1964 to 58 per cent in 1968. This clearly indicates how overseas companies are becoming involved in the ownership and the actual control of this country. These figures show how much easier it is becoming for them to plunder and win great wealth from this country. It should be a condition that those who are given the right to mine and quarry must also process here and manufacture here. This should be a basic consideration. 
I join this evening in the words of appreciation uttered by other honourable members for the contribution made by the Minister for National Development. The Minister has applied himself diligently. He has produced some great documents to indicate the work of his Department. For my own part I should like to say, 'Thank you' to him for the numerous reports that I have received, reports from the Bureau of Mineral Resources, from the Division of National Mapping and other areas of government. All of these have been of great value indeed. I wish the Minister well in his retirement. He has been a Minister of, I believe in the main, sound judgment. Whilst his thoughts, or the thoughts of his Government, differ fundamentally from those on this side of the House, I believe the Minister has applied himself in a very useful way in the affairs of this nation. I personalty thank him for at least the courtesies that he has extended to honourable members and to myself. 
Looking through the Minister's report on natural resources and development objectives I would like to say that if these objectives were to be translated into legislative effect and were to become actualities and facts of life, how we could applaud and sing the praises of the Minister. The first objective is as follows: 
We should aim to bring into use natural resources of our country as fully as our powers, energies and abilities permit for the benefit of Australians generally. 
We are not doing that. Today our emphasis is on the big cities and the coastal strip of New South Wales and Victoria. It is not in the development of our resources in the broad sense. The second objective is stated as: 
We are bound to think not only of Australians of the present generation but also the future generation. 
If we were thinking of Australia and the future generation we would have greater concern for the conservation of our resources. We would be thinking of this country for hundreds and for thousands of years in advance. We would be thinking of an Australia going far into the distance. We are not doing that today. Those who come here and plunder our resources very quickly are granted a franchise to export what they can take. The third objective reads: 
We should aim to ensure that Australians participate effectively both in the equity capital of natural resource projects and in their management. 
I have already quoted figures showing how overseas control is increasing in this country. The fourth objective is stated as: 
We should pursue energetically our endeavours to discover what our natural resources are, and to research into how they can and should best be used. 
Of course we should do that. But compared with many of the smaller countries, Holland for argument's sake, we are certainly dragging our feet and are not nearly as effective as we should be. These are the glorious views which are put forward by the Minister. Perhaps these are his dearest thoughts, but they are not the thoughts and they are not the intentions of the Government of this country. That is to be deplored. I think that the ideas themselves are quite worth while. 
I support the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and the other honourable members who have spoken . of the need of a national energy policy in respect of our enormous supplies of coal, bauxite, water resources and fuel of various kinds and natural gas and oil that can be harnessed by schemes such as the Snowy Mountains scheme. There should be a plan to harness all of these resources in the production of power for the development of this country. A plan of this kind has not emerged from this Government. In 23 years of anti-Labor government nothing of the kind has been produced. The Joint Coal Board emerged in the days of Labor government and played a significant part in building up coal production in Australia. Another scheme for national energy usage could emerge, joining all the forces of energy in an overall Australian plan for the development of this nation. If we were to evolve such a plan, the coal that we might sell on the world market could be sold at a better price. There would be less plunder of our resources in this country merely to satisfy the exporter or the importer whether he be in Japan or some other part of the world. 
These are factors that should be given careful and sound consideration. I can only hope that a plan for Australia will emerge one day, not from this Government but from a Labor government in the future, which will show to the world what this nation can do as we have done in the past with the Snowy Mountains Authority and the trans-continental railway. We will build this nation in such a fashion that we will be the envy of the world. But in building this nation we will make a contribution which will help the less fortunate people in this world and bring health, happiness and satisfaction to the people of our country. This is a great country. It needs great people to lead it. It needs good and patriotic people to lead it. It needs good Australians. I believe that the time will soon emerge when we will have the type of leadership given by Ben Chifley, John Curtin, Andy Fisher and others, and this will not only set an example for all Australians so that Australians will rally and support them but will also be an inspiration to others. 
I propose to the House for its  Speaker, Mr Cope,  and move: 
That the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  do take the Chair of this House as  Speaker. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him that on 3rd October last year the Premier of New South Wales named Bathurst-Orange as a growth area. Has the Premier of New South Wales discussed his plan with the honourable gentleman7 If so, did he outline his plan and state what action the New South Wales Government intends to take to make the BathurstOrange complex a reality? Did the Premier provide a timbetable to implement his programme and did he seek Federal financial and/or other matching assistance? Will the Prime Minister clarify the position? 
Parliament should finish with this puerile, pettifogging discussion on the question of whether there should be 2 minutes or 3 minutes to permit honourable members and Ministers to come into the chamber. The Parliament should settle down to the important business of government. This shows the bankruptcy of responsibility of the Opposition which has taken so much time to oppose a proposal that the time to permit honourable members and Ministers to come into this place should be extended by one minute. This is not a subject which concerns the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  alone. This subject is one which concerns every member of the Parliament. In particular it concerns members of the Cabinet who will be attending meetings and who will be required to come from their meeting place into this chamber when a division is called. With all the major questions facing this nation - fiscal matters, international matters and matters of great concern on the domestic front such as housing, education and social welfare - the Parliament has wasted more than an hour this afternoon discussing this question. Surely there should not be an argument. 
There is an extraordinary circumstance at the present time. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has said, the Prime Minister's suite has been dismantled and his offices have been moved to the most distant extremity of the Senate building. These are important considerations. They are facts that should not be overlooked. If some of the younger 60 year olds on the Opposition side feel that they do not require 3 minutes they should have regard to the membership of the Parliament generally and make provision in accordance with the present circumstances. 1 regret very much that the great issues of this country have been halted, temporarily at least, for a discussion of a matter which ought to have been determined by a statement from the Leader of the House and by some acceptable point of view from the members of the Opposition. They have not been prepared to face up to the major questions facing this nation. They want to oppose the extension of time from 2 minutes to 3 minutes. I repeat that it only shows the utter bankruptcy of responsibility of an Opposition which cannot settle down to the real business of this nation. 

Before calling the honourable member for Holt, I remind honourable gentlemen that this will be his maiden speech, and I am sure that he will be extended the usual courtesy. 
Order! It being 3.15 p.m., in accordance with the resolution of the House suspending Standing Orders, the debate is interrupted and I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister, of course, is aware of the tremendous interest in the distribution of natural gas throughout the nation. Now that difficulties apparently have been withdrawn from the establishment of a national pipeline grid and the construction of a pipeline to convey natural gas from Gidgealpa in South Australia to Sydney and certain towns in New South Wales, will the Minister assure me and the House that the work will proceed with the utmost expedition? 
 This motion, which provides for the appointment of a Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, deserves the commendation and support of all honourable members. It is pleasing to know that those who have made contributions to this debate have indicated their support. Perhaps they have expressed some reservations - an amendment has been moved - but nevertheless they have agreed that there is a need to look at the problems affecting the Northern Territory. This motion provides for the establishment of a committee to inquire into and report on matters relating to the Northern Territory and to carry out research into all aspects and problems concerning this important area. The Northern Territory remains the challenge of the people of Australia and the responsibility of the national Government of Australia. I welcome the proposal to form the committee, to which both sides have agreed, and upon which both sides of this House will be represented. 
There are historic problems and accumulated grievances in regard to the Northern Territory. There is the immediate problem of 23 years of non-Labor administration, of neglect of the affairs of the Northern Territory and the need immediately to deal with these problems. It is regrettable therefore that we have had during the course of this debate some churlish reference to what has occurred over the past 4 months since the Labor Government came to office. I commend the Government for paying attention to the requirements of this great area, considering the needs of this area and having regard for the problems of the people to see what can be done in the development of the area. Let us look forward in a realistic way to the future of the Territory. There is nothing to be gained by merely going over the trails and tracks of the past, thinking of what might have been done and what should have been done. We have to go forward and prepare for the development of the Territory and its future form of government - perhaps statehood, regional or provincial government and above all local selfgovernment - so that the people of the Territory themselves may be given the opportunity to declare the type of government they want and to exercise their franchise in giving effect to their desires. It has been easy over the years to say that all these responsibilities reside here in Canberra, that the experts of the Public Service can determine these matters. This is not good enough. 
I believe that there is an obvious need for regionalism in the Northern Territory, because the vast land mass of the Northern Territory differs fundamentally between Darwin in the north and Alice Springs in the centre. The people in these different areas have different problems and different approaches to the questions they meet from time, to time, from day to day. So therefore it is necessary that the people at Alice Springs under the leadership of a former distinguished member of this House,  Mr Jock  Nelson, who is Mayor of Alice Springs, be given an opportunity to express themselves. I would not expect any honourable member of this place to say an unkind word about Jock Nelson, the Mayor of Alice Springs, and those he is serving there at the present time. I mention his name because it is known here. He is a territorian true, one who has represented the people of the north in Parliament and who is now serving them effectively and faithfully in local government. 
I want more than that to be done, and I look forward to an examination of all the problems of the Northern Territory. 1 am particularly concerned about the action that might be taken to stimulate not merely the export potential of ports and opportunities for overseas trade in the north but also development of the north in a realistic way which will help the people of this nation. With the co-ordination of the activities of the members who serve the north in a variety of ways I believe this can be achieved. 1 would like to think that with the establishment of this Committee we will be able to achieve that union of co-operation between the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  one who is so well versed in the problems of the north - the questions of development and the economy, rural and otherwise - the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  so that each may play his part in building up the north in an effective way so that it will be able to make a contribution of outstanding dimension to the development of this nation. 
The Committee should examine all aspects of development in northern Australia. The broad questions of national development, minerals, natural gas, oil and all the other agencies of power and resources should be considered by this Committee. I believe that if this is done in association with the Minister for Transport we should soon see some speedy action in building the north-south railway, which is a fundamental necessity for the north of Australia. In addition to that I would like to see another trans-continental railway built from somewhere in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, through the centre of the Northern Territory into Queensland, so that the resources of the north-west of Queensland and the Centre might be joined in an effective way in building this nation. For too long we have been inclined to allow this sort of development to go without action, without thought and without coordination. 
The north remains for us the great national challenge. It remains for us the great area for development. If we fail to accept our responsibility in this regard we are failing Australia, for the development of the north can bring great prosperity to the people of northern Australia; indeed, it can also secure the defence of the people of the southern parts of Australia. These are vital questions that should be considered by the Committee and for that reason, among many others, including the welfare of the people, I consider this as a vital matter. 1 believe that with adequate transport we should be able to co-ordinate the needs of the people of northern Queensland with those of the Centre and Western Australia and we should be able to blend our rich resources in one of the most imaginative and most spectacular developments that has ever occurred in this country. A Labor government can achieve this because it believes in the development of this nation. I look forward to the Minister for Northern Development, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Min: erals and Energy and the Minister for the Northern Territory engaging in this great and wonderful development. 
Welfare must be taken into consideration - the welfare of the people of the north and of our original Australians, the Aborigines, who have a special claim for attention and consideration by the Committee. This will be one of the great responsibilities of the Committee. It will not be handing over something - some give-away gimmick - but encouraging the people of the north in the practical development of their own area so that they might enjoy those things with which they have lived throughout the years it will help to make a fundamental contribution to Australia's development. Other people in the north also need consideration. I refer to those who have gone to the north to engage in developmental projects, whether they be related to minerals, harbours, mines or like projects, or in the rural industries of cattle and pastoral pursuits. These people are entitled to the consideration of the Committee and of this Parliament. All of these things will count for nought unless the Parliament is prepared to back the proposals of the Committee with finance for great and wonderful development. I hope that the Parliament will heed the Committee's reports and take those steps which are necessary for the expansion and development of this great area - a wonderland, a great wealth resource for Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. Will you confer with the Joint Statutory Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings to see whether it will be at all possible to televise the debate on the private members Bill to be determined on Thursday of this week because of the tremendous interest which has been evoked throughout Australia on the importance of this social matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. When will he be able to indicate to the Par.liament the route that the natural gas pipeline will take from Gidgealpa and other centres in the heart of Australia to the eastern coastline? Will he in due course make a detailed statement to the Parliament setting out the precise nature of arrangements with regard to the distribution of natural gas and the timetable for the construction of the main features of the pipeline? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: In his constructive and humanitarian consideration of social security benefits, will he give special consideration to needy people living in remote places who are denied the advantages of trained nursing services? Will he consider the special aptitude and capabilities of people who help the aged and the sick and thus provide to them a benefit which at present they are denied? 
I support the Bill. Edmund Barton spoke of Australia as one land, one race, one flag and one destiny. Tonight we should be considering Australia in the terms in which Edmund Barton spoke - one nation, one flag and one destiny - and we should be considering the nation not as separate entities but forming one part of a very small and diminishing world. When it comes to the question of international conferences dealing with the subject that we are debating this evening, it is the Commonwealth which is represented at those meetings to determine problems in respect to this question. It is not a matter for individual States. Just because we reside within a State our standing as Australians does not diminish. When this nation is involved in any conflict, men leave its shores and serve in its defence not in the spirit of being New South Welshmen, Victorians or Western Australians, but as Australians - one people, one nation, one destiny. We belong to the one nation. We belong to Australia. In the consideration of the resources of this nation, the minerals and all the other wealth beneath the sea on the continental shelf, again we should not be dividing ourselves on a States basis. We should look at the overall problem of how these resources can best be used in the interests of the people of this nation. 
I commend the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on his action in regard to this matter. He has exhibited a brand of Australianism which has been lacking in the past when the resources of this country have been lost to it - and when the wealth of our country has been fed out to people living overseas by multi-national corporations which have had the opportunity of exploiting the great wealth of our nation. Regrettably, it is true that some of the States have engaged in what they thought was a form of speculation which would bring in some immediate return and have bartered away much of the wealth of our country. We cannot afford to continue this practice. When we are dealing with any other nation in trade and commerce we must deal as a nation and not as parts of a nation. If some nation comes to us to buy our coal or some other mineral won from the submerged lands or elsewhere, it comes as an organised economic unit to purchase what we have to sell but we are divided in our dealings with other nations. For that reason it is imperative that this matter be decided, and decided promptly. 
I was particularly impressed this afternoon with the remarks of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who made national speeches or Australian speeches on an Australian subject. On questions such as this the Parliament should forget for once the narrow divisions that sometimes separate honourable members on questions of political attitude and party considerations on other matters. We should submerge those considerations, adopt a national attitude and put forward a point of view which will be intelligible not only within Australia but also outside this nation. 
What has been the situation in the past on the question of the wealth won from beneath the ocean? This activity has been promoted by the national government, the Australian Government - past non-Labor governments - by way of assistance to companies searching for petroleum beneath the ocean in Bas Strait and elsewhere, by way of assistance provided by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and by way of subisides and taxation remissions. In all these fields it has been a national attitude which has helped to bring the development about. Then, having won certain rewards in this regard, the Commonwealth had vacated the field and left it to independent and individual States. 
Let us look at some of the practices which have occurred. Take the case of Esso-BHP in Bass Strait. This was an example of the type of consultation that we have been asked to accept this evening. It is an experience that should have taught honourable members that this is not the most desirable practice. In the mid-1960s Esso-BHP was able to locate considerable reserves of petroleum products - oil and natural gas - in Bass Strait on the continental shelf. Despite the fact that they were found as a result of money made available by our national Government, the Australian Government, these resources have not been readily made available to the people of Australia. They have not been made available to the people all around the countryside. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who spoke in this debate, is a former Minister for National Development and he represents an electorate which includes the city of Albury. That city, which is in close proximity to where the oil and natural gas have been found, has been unable to get natural gas up to this stage because of the man ner in which that resource has been handled. Surely if there was one honourable member in the House who should have cried out for a change of attitude on this matter it was the honourable member for Farrer. 
Let us look a little further at the use of these resources.  Sir William  Pettingell, the energetic and capable administrator and executive of the Australian Gas Light Co., tried to negotiate a deal to get natural gas from Bass Strait for New South Wales. Despite all his efforts, he was unable to get it at the right price. Consequently, he had to become involved in oil and gas searches in the distant parts of New South Wales and eventually he had to make an arrangement to buy natural gas from Gidgealpa in South Australia. This is an experience that should be remembered. 
The arrangements made in respect of the Bass Strait resources by  Sir Henry  Bolte, when Premier of Victoria, arid the nonLabor Federal Government of the time so tied up those resources that they were not available to the people of the rest of Australia. The price was prohibitive. Only now is EssoBHP coming to adopt a realistic attitude to the sale of these resources. I remind honourable members that some time ago I raised in this House a question about the sale of liquefied petroleum gas in New. South Wales by Esso-BHP. It was being sold, to the Lith- gow City Council at $52 a ton. However, the same resource, the availability of which was made possible by the provision of a subsidy, was going from Australia to Japan at $16 a ton. This is the sort of thing that we can and perhaps will correct in the foreseeable future. But before these matters can be dealt with effectively it is imperative that the law be known. We should establish beyond any doubt just where the Commonwealth stands in regard to the control of submerged lands and the resources won therefrom. 
It has been said that the Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick - I have read the remarks he made in the court case concerned- has declared that the State responsibility and authority ends at the low water mark. Be that as it may, accept that if we wish, whether it is true or false, the fact is that the question should be determined by the Court. It should be put beyond any shadow of doubt at all. And the only way that this can be accomplished is by a determination, firstly, of this national Parliament of Australia to legislate in the form of the Bills which have been presented by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
It has been a sore point in Australian politics that much of our resources is being acquired and taken over by foreign companies. On whatever side of the House honourable members sit, they know that there is a great body of public opinion that is absolutely disgusted and fed up that this trend has been allowed to develop to the stage where the resources of our country have been acquired stealthily, skilfully and in a scheming way and placed in the ownership of people living outside our country. I have referred to the operations of Esso-BHP in Bass Strait, but look at the situation of Woodside-Burmah in the other lucrative field on the north-west shelf of Western Australia. There, too, is a case where foreign ownership has acquired great graticular blocks, tremendous areas of land such as would not be made available by the Arab States of the Middle East, yet we, the so-called enlightened Australians, have been prepared to allow this situation to develop. 
The submerged lands in this area overlie tremendous wealth. They have been passed into the hands of foreign speculators and multi-national corporations. These resources should be in the hands of Australia. There should be an Australian policy determining these matters. United we stand in any matter; divided we fall. If we are united as Australians, speaking with an Australian voice, it will not be a voice which will be petulant; it will not be -harmful to one State as against another; it will have clear national objectives for the good of the Australian people. If we are incompetent and incapable of doing that we at least ought to surrender our rights to govern this country. Surely it is fundamental that the resources of our country should be in the charge and control of the nation and the Government of the nation. Whether the Government be Labor, Liberal or Country Party is beside the point. These areas should be in the charge of the nation and controlled by the government of this land. 
So I make a plea tonight that this matter should be determined by the Parliament and a decision made once and for all time. We should determine the matter. If the validity of this legislation is to be tested in the courts of the land let the process come into operation. Let it be determined. Let us know where we stand. This situation of uncertainty and doubt while our country is being plundered is certainly not good enough for us. We must think too of our relationship with foreign countries, with Indonesia and other countries with which we have a continental shelf boundary and link. The time will come, as the honourable member for Moreton said this afternoon, when Papua New Guinea will be independent. What will be the situation there? After independence who knows what group of people from America, Japan, Canada, Russia, China or anywhere else will have a dominating say in the affairs of Papua New Guinea. Are we going to let this matter be handled by the Premier of Queensland and follow the line that he has followed? I hope not. 
It is not for us to judge the attitudes of people who have been elected to lead their various States, but I want to make a plea for national unity in this matter. I plead for national understanding and national purpose so that the resources of Australia will be protected firstly for the people of this country. We all know that there is a great dearth of fuel and energy. Energy is a diminishing asset If the Government of the nation does not act to protect the rights of all the people of Australia through legislation of this kind it will have betrayed the people it was elected to represent and to serve. 
Tonight I merely enter this debate at the eleventh hour with no previous intention to speak. But I was somewhat astonished to hear the attitude of 'little Australians'. I was heartened by the words of the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins. I was encouraged very much by the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton and I have been stimulated by the remarks made by honourable members on the Government side who, with clarity and force, have declared Australia's position and have also made a plea for a clear understanding of the legal situation in this important matter. I support the Bill. 
Is it the wish of the House that this course be followed? There being no objection, this course will be followed. 
Will the Minister for Social Security cause a searching inquiry to be made into the conduct of home unit organisations to ascertain the operation of the administration of such organisations where pensioners and other aged persons are required to pay substantial sums of money to gain admission? I bring to the attention of the Minister a case that I referred to him some time ago where at Ryde, New South Wales, an age pensioner was called upon to pay$2,000 to gain admission and subsequently was asked to leave because she was in the process of selling a home which she owned at that time. Since then she has sold her home, has lost her $2,000 deposit and is in urgent need of accommodation. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Have the merits of the new Australian developed automatic rifle been brought to his notice? Have officers involved in defence production had an opportunity to assess the value of the weapon? If not, will an evaluation be made and if the weapon meets defence requirements will arrangements then be made to have the weapon manufactured at the Commonwealth Small Arms Factory, Lithgow? 

Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. I think that the remarks made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  were absolutely disgraceful. They were untrue. He accused me of saying something in this place tonight which I have not said. He prejudged how I will vote on the Bill. He. behaved like a complete and utter ratbag, and that is what he is. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member will withdraw that term. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 9  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
In making the proposed division the Distribution Committee shall give reconsideration, in relation to each proposed Electoral Division, to - 
community or diversity of interests; 
trend of population changes; and 
physical features, and subject thereto the quota of electors shall be the basis for the division, and the Distribution Committee may adopt a margin of allowance but so that the quota shall not be departed from to a greater extent than one-tenth more or one-tenth less. 
The Senate amendment obviously must be unacceptable to this Committee. People have waited for some considerable time for a decision to be made regarding the distribution of natural gas. They have waited for the fulfilment of the program enunciated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  It now has reached a stage, as the Minister has outlined to us this afternoon, where pipes have been bought and stored and arrangements have been made to commence this important distribution of Australian energy. Yet this afternoon we are facing a Senate amendment that can do nothing but hold up a decision that is vital to the distribution of natural gas. 
In one case which came to my attention and about which I have written to the Minister, the Bathurst City Council in the near future will be compelled to build a new gas works unless the distribution of natural gas is speeded up. It is important, therefore, that the Parliament should now decide this matter once and for all and that the Senate should heed the responsible view of this House as expressed in earlier decision. Therefore, I put to the Committee that we should decide to proceed along the lines indicated by the Minister so that natural gas will be flowing at the earliest possible date and so that the benefits will be distributed throughout the region as proposed in the legislation. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I think it would be foolhardy to restrict this Authority to the limits of an Act which do not allow it to purchase and sell gas. 
Earlier in my speech I said: 
The Authority will act as a primary reticulation authority . . .  and - 
. will purchase natural gas and will convey it to the city gate . . . 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: In addition to his comprehensive program for social welfare will he give urgent consideration to the problems of families, and the need to provide increased family assistance so that mothers will not be compelled by economic circumstances to seek employment which would disadvantage her children? Will the Minister examine the feasibility of paying an allowance to mothers who remain at home to care for their children? 
-To the warm expressive tributes paid to Arthur Calwell by the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition the Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Melbourne and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I should like to add a few sentences of my own to pay a tribute to him. It is 43 years ago since I first met Arthur Calwell at a federal Labor conference. Arthur had come to the conference to assist the Victorian delegation, a delegation of earnest and in the main elderly men who were dedicated Labor men steeped in the tradition of our Party. Arthur was the enthusiastic young man. He was the zealot, the hard-working industrious person who was there to help them and to do all of the things that are required to be done to assist a delegation at a conference. I attended that conference as a representative of the New South Wales Branch of the Party. It was there that I had an opportunity to observe Arthur Calwell, to note his qualities and to try to understand him, for he was an idealistic young reformer with a deep faith in mankind and unswerving confidence in the aims and objectives of the Labor Party to create a better society. Arthur was firmly convinced of these things, as I and all members of the delegation were. He was a traditionalist who did not lose his youthful fervour. 
Our late colleague was an unrelenting opponent of injustice. He would not stand for the little person being hurt or being denied the freedoms that he was entitled to have. He fought for those people even though many times it was not to Arthur's great advantage to do so. He was in the broadest sense a good man who did not confuse modernity and progress with degeneracy. He had a great sense of quality, of value, of work. The quality of life to Arthur Calwell was the quality of the family, of happy communities of people, and of the development of a strong nation. He was a kind and generous man who never spared himself in his work. I recall his coming into the electorate of Macquarie to attend an official function and after that was over he went out of his way to meet a number of people. When that was done he travelled many, many miles very late in the afternoon to call upon an old friend and to make a little gift to the person who had almost forgotten Arthur, but Arthur had not forgotten him. In the words of Henry Lawson, he saw the vision splendid of 
Australia- a progressive developing nation of independent, happy people. He never ceased to champion our country, to extol its qualities, and to defend it from traducers. 
In every way he was a good Australian. He toured this country to the most remote places as he did Papua New Guinea. It was always a great delight to be in his company for he was an authentic Australian with the Labor spirit which one will never forget. He lived the life of an Australian. He had great faith in the future of this land. In this Parliament we will miss this authentic Labor spirit- a spirit that will live on. His colourful language will be missed. But whilst his colourful language will be missed we all remember him as having some words to say about those tired working bullocks of prose. They were not in Arthur Calwell 's vocabulary. 
I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister. I am sure that the whole Parliament and the nation support the sentiments expressed by the Prime Minister. I should like on this occasion to express publicly my deepest sympathy to  Mrs Calwell,  to her daughter Mary Elizabeth, to Arthur's sisters and to other members of the family. 
I am obliged to permit the honourable member for Indi to make his personal explanation as the misrepresentation occurred in the debate on this Bill. 
I ask the honourable member to withdraw them. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia in order to recoup the cost to the Government of export meat inspection. 
That is all, nothing else. We would be happy to provide funds for that purpose. We are not arguing about that aspect, but outside the House the Prime Minister, who no doubt could assist this debate if he were prepared to come into the House and say what his Government intends instead of announcing it outside, has said: 
In addition, in order to recoup the costs of the Government's contribution to the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign-- 
That is quite a different matter and not related to the meat inspection services at all - 
Cabinet has agreed that the proposed export charge on beef and veal be increased from lc per lb to 1.6c per lb. 
He either did not tell the honourable member for Riverina or the honourable member for Riverina misled this House or did not know what he was doing. The House can make up its own mind on this, but it needs to understand that on the basis that the Government has stated and which it has set down to collect money for meat inspection services it needs $55m at the most. From the tax, which is established in this Bill, it will be collecting almost $70m - a profit of $15m. With a tax of lc per lb the Government would gain a profit of $15m. However if the tax is 1.6c per lb on beef and veal, as established by this legislation, which the Opposition will not permit in this House or in the Senate, the funds collected will be $85m, which will result in a cool profit of almost $31m. For what purpose will that be used? It has been suggested that it will be used for brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns, but the cost of those campaigns is borne largely by the States and at the most $6m to $7m would be required from the Commonwealth. In these circumstances this Parliament is owed an explanation. 
The Prime Minister has made one too many speeches outside the Parliament and has allowed the Minister for Immigration to mislead the House or unwittingly show that he does not know what the situation is all about. If this is allowed to continue, the Government will soon move into a period of decay. It is worth noting that for a long while the primary producers of Australia have provided this country with cheap food. For more than 10 years food prices in Australian shops have stayed much below the general level of increase in average earnings. We have had a situation in which there have been forced sales as a result of drought and low prices and in which sheep numbers have fallen by more than 40 million in 3 to 4 years. In these circumstances, when farmers debts have increased to $2,000m or more, farmers need better prices to be able to pay off some of that debt, as a substitute, if you like, for the $500m at 3 per cent which the honourable member for Riverina wished to provide but whose Government would not allow him to provide. Higher prices and better returns are needed so that the farming community can get out of the debt which low prices and drought have forced it into and so that farmers can also pay the iniquitous 9 to 10 per cent interest rates which are being imposed by the present Government. 
If the Government does not interfere with this great industry we may see the present beef herds rising from 28 million or 29 million to 40 million by 1976 or 1977 and probably to 50 million by 1980. Markets are available overseas if there is the inducement in Australia to expand. This country will be better off and more secure. Areas now undeveloped will be opened up if this is allowed to occur. It would be one of the best decentralising forces possible. In these circumstances we hope that the Government will be sensible in relation to the meat industry. 
One other matter bears some relevance to this Bill. We should demand that the Minister for Immigration give a categorical guarantee that there will not be amending legislation within a week to increase this tax, as some Government supporters want, to a punitive level of 12c per lb which is basically, as I understand it, the kind of tax recommended by Government members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices - a tax that would bring in something like $160m to $170m a year additional revenue to the Government and which, at the same time, they would hope would force down the price of meat and keep it off the export market. We need a guarantee from the Minister that that kind of tax will not be introduced. As a personal view, I do not believe that this legislation should be proceeded with until we have that guarantee. 
I call the Minister for Immigration representing the Minister for Primary Industry. He will close the debate. 
I commend the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for accepting the amendment transmitted to this House by the Senate. The PostmasterGeneral has shown wisdom and understanding in this matter. He has interpreted the feeling not only of this place and the Senate but also of people in country areas who have a very special problem. It is not merely a matter of assisting the newspaper proprietors. The country newspapers form part of the literature of the countryside. The country Press gives the story of the dealings of the people in their respective communities. It provides marketing information, news and intelli gence on the development of areas. The problems, the difficulties, the doubts and the dangers are all matters which are mirrored in the country newspapers. It is important that the country newspapers be allowed to continue to have a very special place in the intelligence of our nation. 
I think all honourable members would be prepared to admit that the mass media - the great organs in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide - are dominating the dissemination of news at the present time. The Postmaster-General, by adopting his considerate and enlightened attitude, has certainly done something that I know all members of this House will appreciate. I believe that every one of us has made representations to him asking him to give consideration to what he is accepting at the present time. I thank the Minister. I am delighted to think that the Parliament's voice has been heard and that the insistence of honourable members on this matter has been respected. 
I preface my question to the Treasurer by saying that he would be aware of the interest in and perhaps in some places concern at the changing interest rates. I ask the Treasurer whether he will prepare a table setting out the movement of interest rates over the last 25 years so that honourable members may be better informed of the trends that have occurred over the years and will be able intelligently to debate and understand this matter? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the annual cost to the Commonwealth of rented office accommodation (a) in each State and Territory and (b) in each of the principal towns and cities in each State and Territory. 
MrDaly -  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

Order! The honourable member for Griffith will remain silent. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy please clarify the present relationship between the Pipeline Authority and the Australian Gas Light Co. in relation to the construction of the GidgealpaSydney pipeline? Is the Minister in a position to give definite dates for the commencement and completion of the work? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection,  I  will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. 
Question put - 
That the report be adopted and that the Bill be now read a third time. 
My question which is directed to the Treasurer deals with the serious increase in prices. The Treasurer would know that many items of food have increased alarmingly in price over a period of time. Among these items is a certain brand of canned fish which is packaged in Australia and which rose from 43c to 78c per 1 lb can. In view of the refusal by the New South Wales Government to exercise its constitutional authority to control prices, what action can be taken by the Australian Government to protect consumers until such time as the Australian people grant such authority to this Government? 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  It should be established immediately that there be a joint meeting of this House and the Senate to determine the matter once and for all time. I think it is quite improper for this House immediately to declare where it would site the new Parliament House. I think it is a matter for decision by the joint Houses. We should not thrust our views upon a joint meeting but we should be able to go along and in discussion with honourable senators determine the siting of the Parliament, the manner in which it is to be built and whether we approve of the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I reject his suggestion because I believe that that type of construction- completing the building in stages -would be most undesirable. I ask the honourable members to contemplate what would occur for, if the Camp Hill site named by the Minister is selected, it means not only that this Parliament House will be demolished but, in addition, that East Block and West Block will also be demolished. 
It is extraordinary that at the present time we, who are so frugal in our dealings with the people who operate our postal service and such things, should be contemplating building the new and permanent Parliament House on Camp Hill, which would require the demolition of the present Parliament House, which only recently has been extended to provide the Prime Minister's suite - the paint would hardly be dry - and on which some $3m has been spent over the last few years. To demolish this Parliament House would be a brand of national vandalism, and honourable members ought to think carefully as to their attitude on this matter. It may be said that East Block and West Block have served their purpose and that they could well be demolished to make way for the erection of better and more modern office accommodation. But I cannot subscribe to the demolition of this Parliament House on which $3m has been spent recently. 
I want honourable members to consider the various inquiries which have taken place in regard to the site for the new and permanent Parliament House in order to try to work out in their own minds just what has occurred in the past. If they do that and if they are called upon to make a decision subsequently I think they would declare for Capital Hill, because Capital Hill is the focal point of the national capital. It is the site on which the Australian flag flutters gaily in the breeze. From Capital Hill one has a commanding view over the whole of the national capital. Those who object to the Capital Hill site have made some extraordinary statements. They have said that it is too high and that Parliament House would look out of proportion up on this high hill. A few members of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, of which the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  was a member, expressed a different view. The Committee was told by the National Capital Development Commission that the Capital Hill site would be unsatisfactory, that too much would be required to be taken from the top of the hill and that subsequently it would not be high enough. What a conflicting story. What an extraordinary statement to be made. One group says that Capital Hill is too high and another group says that something will have to be taken from the top which will make it too low and Parliament House will not be seen. 
These arguments in regard to Capital Hill are illogical nonsense. Capital Hill is in a commanding position. A Parliament building could be established on top of it. It is a most desirable site because it would allow for vaults and rooms to be provided well beneath ground level, as they should be in a Parliament House. These rooms would provide storage space for documents and places in which 
Ministers may work safely in time of war. All of these matters, in my opinion, offer a compelling argument for the selection of Capital Hill. It is centrally located and it can be seen from any part of Canberra. 
The view from Camp Hill, on the other hand, will be obstructed in the first place by this present Parliament House, unless it is demolished, and by other structures. 
I want to put to the Parliament the importance of space. Quite frequently our experts who sit in their offices talk about small buildings being thrust side by side with other buildings. The type of building I want to see in this national capital of ours is a building of imagination, a building of architectural grandeur, a building of great scale embodying the great qualities of stone and . marble and the timbers of our country so that we will have something which will be commendable, which will be an attraction, and which the world would like to see. Surely we can plan something of this kind. Having decided on the location of the new and permanent Parliament House, I do not support the view that we should proceed immediately with its construction. I believe that this present building can last for a considerable time, and we ought to be using this building. Having decided on the location of the new building, we should commence to plan it carefully. 
Let us consider the area of land available on each site. We are told, of course, that Capital Hill is not a desirable place, but it is of greater acreage than Camp Hill. Capital Hill, which is located inside the ring road which was built since the last inquiry, has 81 acres compared with some 60-odd acres on Camp Hill taking in the whole of the adjacent countryside. Capital Hill, if taken to include the adjoining area outside the ring road, occupies 130 acres. So, I put it to the House that Capital Hill is the most desirable place. 
Honourable members ought to recall the selection of capitals in other countries. George Washington selected a site of 130 acres for Washington. To date the Capitol in Washington, the capital of the United States of America, occupies 155 acres. Yet Camp Hill with only 47 acres on the hilltop itself is being put forward seriously to honourable members of our country. Australia is a land of 3 million square miles and we are being asked to accept this petty area of land at Camp Hill as the site for the new and permanent parliament house. The other suggestion made is that we ought to build the parliament house in stages. I remind honourable members that in Melbourns the Parliament House was commenced a long time ago, a further stage was built there some 100 years ago and now the final stages are to be built. With the changes of government that occur and with the fluctuations in economic fortune the building may be commenced by one government and there may be a change of heart by another government, just as there has been in regard to the selection of a site. 
The Senate Select Committee on the Development of Canberra found in favour of Capital Hill in 1955. Two years later the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives inspected the areas again, and again came down in favour of the site on Capital Hill. Capital Hill is the obvious place for the location of a new and permanent parliament house. I can only hope and trust that this Parliament will not be niggardly about this matter and will not commit an act of national vandalism by demolishing this building while it is asking other people to economise. We will maintain this building as a meeting place, as a conference place and as an assembly place for the visitors who may come here and for the various departmental meetings which must inevitably occur in a growing national capital. In my opinion the case for Capital Hill is overwhelming, but the motion does not ask honourable members to declare for that today. All the motion asks honourable members to do is to declare for a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives and to let the senators and representatives in their joint meetings determine the matter. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who has moved the amendment, wants us to prejudge the matter now and to declare for Camp Hill. Whenever the decision is to be made my vote will be recorded for Capital Hill which I believe offers the greatest possible advantages for the building of a parliament house of which we would all be proud. 
My question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy deals with the world fuel crisis. In view of the Minister's efforts to expand fuel supplies for Australia's economic needs, which also relate to his insistence on Australian ownership of our energy resources, will he cause a complete review to be made of our fuel potentialities? In this review, will he arrange a detailed study of the practical economics of the production of oil from coal and the reestablishment of the shale oil industry? Towards the latter objective will he have constructed, at moderate cost, experimental retorts in the Newnes-Glen Davis area for the purpose of improving retorting techniques? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether he has seen the extravagant electioneering statements made by  Mr Morris,  the New South Wales Liberal Minister for Transport, in which he refers to improvements in rail transport in Sydney, the Blue Mountains, Gosford and Wollongong, and claims that these proposals will be implemented only if the Liberal Government of that State is re-elected? To what extent are these electioneering promises related to the program of works in relation to which the Australian Government has agreed, under its urban public transport initiatives, to contribute two-thirds of the cost of improved transport services in New South Wales? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
Is leave granted? -  
My question to the Minister for Secondary Industry deals with the surplus manufacturing capacity in Government munition factories and the employment of the skilled workman in those factories. Having regard to the heavy demand for goods which are in short supply and with the object of retaining the skills of employees in government munition factories, will the Minister cause a searching investigation to be made into the supply of manufactured goods bought by government departments which could be manufactured in munition factories? Will the Minister also ascertain to what extent government factories may be able to meet the manufacturing needs of this nation and so preserve the expertise of those who have given faithful service in the supply of munitions? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
In view of the special circumstances the indulgence is granted. 
Will he discuss this matter with his colleague the Minister for Immigration and point out that the most favourable place for a migrant girl to become proficient in the English language and to learn of the Australian way of life is in the shelter of an Australian home. 
I deeply regret that I did not hear the question, because the last part of it really gets down to the nub of the whole matter. The honourable gentleman was correct, at question time, in asserting that an Australian home is the best place for a migrant girl to learn the language and, more importantly, that it is also the best place to learn the Australian way of life. 
I apologise quite sincerely to the honourable gentleman for having replied in a vein that was fair enough if it represented a reply to what I thought he was talking about. I honestly thought that he had referred to servant girls, although I did not hear the word 'servant' - in fact, it was not used - in the same context as the matter had been raised earlier this week when reference was made to bringing, I think, New Guinean girls into Australia to act as servant girls. When it was mentioned earlier in the week it was in the context of a very poorly paid or almost non-paid situation. I thought that that was what he was talking about. The honourable gentleman has not asked me to apologise. I think he could have asked for an apology there and then. But he was big enough and strong enough in his own character not to bother about asking for an apology, and that is all the more reason why I intend to give him one. He deserves an apology, especialy because he is not a member who is given to engaging in unfair criticism of another person. I have never known him to do that. He is and always has been moderate in the presentation of whatever case he presents to the Parliament 
Whilst that is true of the honourable gentleman and for that reason I give him this unqualified apology, it is also true that there are some other members of the Parliament who deserve whatever is dished out to them - I am probably one of them - because those who give it or hand it out ought to be prepared to cop it. However, usually, they are the ones who are not prepared to cop it. The honourable member for Calare does not deserve to have it dished out to him. He did not ask for an apology and that gives me all the more reason to tender him an unqualified apology. I hope that the Press will see fit to publish my apology, together with any reference it may see fit to make to my reply. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 is a monumental piece of legislation and it accords with the principles of the Australian Labor Party policy statement submitted to the people for the establishment of a national energy and fuel policy for this nation. The Australian people have waited in vain for a government that would speak out for this nation and ensure that the resources of the nation were husbanded, preserved and used for the people of Australia. This Bill sets out in detail to cover the various aspects of petroleum and minerals and assures the Australian people that the welfare of this nation will not be neglected and that we will not sell out our resources to foreign powers merely for a mess of pottage to meet a current situation. 
Having heard the speech of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  a former Minister for the Army and a member of the Australian Country Party, I was utterly astonished and dismayed to think of the degeneracy of the Country Party. One thinks of the utterances of  Sir John  McEwen, a former leader of the Australian Country Party, in which he condemned those who were selling Australia out, farm by farm, and making this nation a quarry. Yet today we heard in this Parliament, merely for the sake of opposing, speakers come out to uphold the position of those who have been robbing and plundering our resources and selling the country, not farm by farm, but mile by mile - selling the great resources of the sea bed and the continental shelf and leaving Australia at the mercy of foreign companies. 
This is nothing new. The energy crisis of the present time has not occurred only over the last 2 or 3 weeks with the diplomacy used by Arab states in making their message known to the states of Europe, to Japan or to any other country. The need to conserve our fuel resources has been known for some considerable period. A former Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, said on 3 
March 1970 that our needs for fuel resources would be doubled by 1980. That was the view of a former Minister for National Development. 
Other views have been expressed that ought to be heeded. One of the prominent people in the field of energy is  Mr N.  A. Smith, the  Chairman  of the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria. He said that we should not export our natural gas; that we should conserve it and keep it for the energy needs of this nation. 
But were his views respected? They were not. Former governments exported our natural gas. They had little regard to the needs of this nation. They were more concerned with getting whatever price they could. Let me remind the House that the price of liquefied petroleum gas as sold by the Esso-BHP group in Bass Strait to local government councils requiring liquefied petroleum gas was in the vicinity of $52 a ton while the same group were selling it to Japan for $16 a ton. This was the action of companies which have been given a franchise or a mandate - unfettered control over the resources of Australia. When one pauses for a moment to find out how such companies obtain these resources - how great graticular blocks were made available to them to search for flow oil and natural gas in Bass Strait - it is no wonder that legislation of the kind contained in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 which we are debating at present should be brought forward. 
Companies have received in subsidies $119m from the Australian Government. The States have assisted in various ways to the extent of $60m and taxation concessions have brought the total financial assistance granted to such companies to some $4 19m. The total expenditure by the companies was $84 lm. This amount was expended by the exploration companies in the search for oil and natural gas. Let us remember also the great assistance given to these companies by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. This Bureau has indeed made a tremendous contribution to the assistance given in a variety of ways to finding natural gas. 
We hear the timid squeaks of members of the Opposition, fearful that something terrible will happen merely because the Australian Government has stood up for the Austraiian people and is to assert the control of a section of our resources for the Australian people. Let us look around the world. In the United Kingdom the British Petroleum Co. Ltd is a private company, that is true, but it is a government company. It is a company associated with the people of Great Britain. In Italy there is ENI, which has ventured out in the various fields of exploration, oil search, pipeline construction, sales, and the development of industry. This tremendous effort by a country which is devoid or short of all natural resources ought to be a lesson to us in what we ought to be doing. In the case of Holland, the Netherlands has kept a watchful eye on the development of resources there. When Esso and Shell were able to find great fields of natural gas in the North Sea in areas adjacent to the Netherlands, the Dutch Government very promptly came in and said: 'Very well. Congratulations. You each can have 25 per cent equity in these resources and 40 per cent will go to Dutch State Mines with the right to distribute internally in Holland. The Dutch Government will retain a 10 per cent interest with the right to dictate and determine economic policy.' By retaining 10 per cent equity in the venture the Dutch Government was able to provide natural gas to depressed areas and to make it available for the development of industry and the stimulation of production. So it was that Holland was able to cease importing certain goods that it hitherto had had to import and was able to develop industry and to provide gainful employment for its unemployed. This is the pattern of thinking overseas. It is a shocking thing that in this country we should virtually have to be declaring the self-evident facts in the Australian Parliament. Surely the Arab countries with their present policies have asserted their sovereignty and their position in the world. Yet we, with these great reserves of natural gas, with oil to be found and with the minerals available in our country, are hesitant and are not proceeding as we should. 
I remind honourable members of what has taken place in the past. I refer for example to the sale of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries by a non-Labor government, an anti-Labor government. William Morris Hughes - Little Billy - helped to create and to build that organisation for the protection of Australian people in peace and war. It was left to a non-Labor government to sell out COR. Billy Hughes was bitter beyond words because of the action of the non-Labor government in that respect. Not only did that government sell out COR and other organisations- 
. . . including the AWA organisation and the shipping companies, which are ot so much related to this measure, but also it betrayed national interests in every possible respect. 
At Newnes and Glen Davis we had the richest oil shale in the world. Not only did former Liberal-Country Party governments close those industries; those industries were demolished and smashed by those former governments so that they could not be- 
-It is not rot at all. Anyone who went to those places and saw what had happened would believe that a nuclear bomb had fallen there. They had been utterly demolished and ruined beyond repair. 
Recently, because of this, I asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy to look at the matter of production of oil from coal and from our rich oil shales. I know that the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. through its mineral division has an interest in a great field at Julia Creek in Queensland. I wish that company well. I hope that that field can be developed. But I also make a plea for the production of oil from coal and oil from shale. The provisions of this Bill give an opportunity for this Government to work in this way. In fact, at present there are foreign companies interested in setting up operations in Australia for the purpose of producing oil from coal. They will be coming to this Government and to the State Government of New South Wales to seek approval and support for their plans. I am most anxious to see that an industry to produce oil from shale is developed because this form of energy resource ought to be tapped in the interests of the Australian people. 
The production of oil from shale is a wonderful industry. But let us think of the whole range of energy reserves available to us. We cannot afford to overlook any form of energy source. We must look at every possible source of energy. The production of oil from shale, which was commenced long before the turn of this century, ought to be developed once again. For that reason, I asked a question of the Minister about this matter. I ask him to continue his investigation into this possible development. I am concerned particularly that we should have a survey of all our oil from shale reserves - these basins throughout the country - and have an industry established at some strategic place. We ought to try immediately to get the best retorting techniques perfected so that we will be able to win from our shale the maximum amount of oil. 
It is known that to a large extent we have copied our retorts from the Scottish practice. The retorts in Scotland were able adequately to treat the low grade shales of Scotland. But the shales in Australia are immeasurably richer. A greater volume of gas is discharged from our shales and we need a greater capacity to suck from the shales the gasses produced by heat. New techniques are being investigated constantly. I would like to think that we in Australia would not overlook this important source of energy production which was used in this country in former years. In the course of the First World War, Newnes was able to supply a quite substantial amount of oil, including gas oil for the Navy, petrol, naptha, sulphate of ammonia, wax and other substances of this kind which are of very great value to the economy of this country. While the great nations of the world plead for energy, for power, for gas, for petrol and for the sources of energy of all kinds, let us be realistic in this country. Let us give this measure introduced by the Minister for Minerals and Energy our blessing and our support so that he can go forward in a workmanlike way to see that this legislation receives approval at the earliest opportunity and that positive action is taken to protect Australian industry and a great Australian asset. I am pleased to support the measure. I can only hope that the Parliament will wisely support it and that, in another place it will receive the support that it richly deserves. I congratulate the Minister on introducing this Bill. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In its voluminous report on roads in Australia in 1973, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads has recommended to the Government that it should provide $2,607m to the States for roads. Is it a fact that of this amount $5 13m is earmarked for national highways, $912m for urban arterial roads and $479m for rural arterial development roads? Can the Minister say whether the Australian Government will hand these moneys over to the States to spend in any way they please as is the case under the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Act? Finally, in respect of country roads, to what extent will there be a variation in funds available from the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement for rural roads? 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="088131197403071_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

Australia is entitled to take up an additional 341 shares in the capital stock of the IBRD at a cost of SUS41.14m, allowing for the effects of the two United States dollar devaluations in recent years. As I mentioned at the outset, 90 per cent of this amount will remain at call and only 10 per cent, or SUS4.114m, is actually payable. Of the latter sum, SUS41 1,000 is payable in gold or United States dollars while the balance of SUS3.7m can be paid in Australian dollars, either in cash in a single lump sum or in the form of a promissory note which would subsequently be encashed on demand as and when the IBRD required the funds involved, or else as otherwise agreed with Australia. 
In the normal course of events, consistent with past practice, we would use the promissory note technique of payment. However, it so happens that, as a consequence of the revaluations of the Australian dollar in December 1972 and September 1973, the IBRD is required under the 'maintenance of value' provisions in its Articles of Agreement to repay to Australia over the next few years an amount in excess of that which Australia will have to pay to take up this special increase in our subscription to the capital stock of the IBRD. It is therefore proposed to try to reach some understanding with the IBRD to offset these respective payments to and by Australia and thereby avoid any net impact on the budget of the present proposal to increase our capital subscription to the IBRD. 
I might add that the proposed increase in our capital subscription to the IBRD will result in a slight improvement in our relative voting strength in that institution, although the effect will be marginal. Given Australia's traditional bi-partisan support for the activities of the IBRD - and all that it stands for - and bearing in mind the various considerations mentioned in this speech, including in particular the financial aspects, I believe that it is in our national interests to take up, in full, the special increase in Australia's subscription to the capital stock of the IBRD to which we are entitled. Accordingly I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I think the Minister might reserve those remarks for the next item on the business paper, the adjournment of sittings. 
Tuesday mornings, it is felt that by sitting the additional 2 hours members will have Friday to Monday in their electorates. It is not unreasonable to expect them to be here on Tuesday mornings. Quite frankly, there are 2 alternatives to not sitting on Tuesday mornings. One is that we could sit more days, and that may still be necessary even allowing for the additional 2 hours on Tuesdays if the legislative program becomes extensively heavy. It may also be necessary for us to sit longer because we may run out of time in respect of how long we can sit. The loss of that additional 2 hours on Tuesdays over a period means that it is just not possible to make it up. We are not forgetting the commitments members have on Tuesday mornings although we have eliminated in this proposal Wednesday morning sittings. Although members have commitments to their executives and matters of that kind, there is no reason at all why they should not be able to get here on the Monday' afternoon or Monday night and attend to matters relating to their official positions in their respective parties. All these problems are allied to the business of government. We have endeavoured to give in every way possible some reasonable latitude for the time available to members. We have no desire to sit 4 or 5 days a week unless it is absolutely necessary because of members' commitments in their electorates. But it will be seen from the program that I have sponsored that there is one Monday and one Friday sitting mainly because of the holiday period which was impossible to avoid. I think it is unreasonable to spend the money required to bring people here from all over Australia for only 2 days. A 3-day sitting week should be the minimum and that is the basis on which we have moved this proposal. 
I will not pursue this comment any further in view of your suggestion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will speak on the amendment when it is moved by the Opposition. I have given a broad outline of the sitting days. It is not intended to sit past 11 p.m. I hope that the Opposition will see fit to support this motion and to endorse the proposal we have put forward. 
Has the Minister for Urban and Regional Development seen the statement made by  Mr R.  S. Dodds, Acting Director of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation, that the shortage of houses in the Bathurst-Orange growth centre is due to the Federal Government's restrictions on the housing industry? Is the statement in accordance with the facts? Furthermore, to what extent has the Australian Government assisted in promoting this important growth region? 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member speak through the Chair 
What will happen to the health centres? We do not have to be terribly imaginative to know what will happen to our program to bring free health centres to the people of Australia. I think that honourable members opposite will probably openly cut expenditure in this area because they have never really liked free health centres in the first place. We can forget about recreation complexes and things like that. It is clear what they intend to do because there is no other way of financing their proposals. If there is a way, honourable members opposite should spell it out. We were always asked: 'Where is the money going to come from?' and we spelt it out. We spelt it out for 6 years before we came to government and now we are implementing that very program. We spelt it out in our policy speech and now honourable members opposite should be doing the same thing. They have a responsibility. They are - God forbid - the alternative government of this country. 
The final point that I want to make is simply that I am surprised at some of the people in this country who are supposedly businessmen. There was a most interesting article on Friday or Saturday on the front page of the 'Australian' newspaper. A firm of business consultants called, I think, John P. Young and Associates, had carried out a survey of Australian businessmen and found that 70 per cent of them thought that this year was going to be a record year and that economic conditions were going to be first class, but that they did not like the Labor Government. They have had their best year in years. Profits have been astronomical, but they do not like the Labor Government. The firm of consultants was asked to explain this phenomenon of record profits and dislike of the Government and its answer was one word and one word only: 'Prejudice'. The firm said that it would not have mattered what we did; members of the business community are so strongly engrained in their prejudice against a democratic socialist party that even if they were quadrupling their profits they would not have liked us. Frankly, it does not worry me a hoot in hell whether they like us or not. I am not particularly concerned with popularity, as long as I know they are doing well - and they are doing well - and that the people of Australia are doing well. It is not popularity that we seek. Was the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who is now interjecting, ever popular? 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is leave granted? Leave is granted. 
I also inform the House that I have advised the Governor-General that in respect of the following proposed laws - Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) 1974, Constitutional Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) 1974, Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) 1974, and Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) 1974 - the conditions in the second paragraph of section 128 of the Constitution have been complied with. I have recommended that His Excellency should submit them to the electors. 

 His Excellency has informed me that he accepts the advice I have tendered and that he will submit the proposed laws to the electors. It is intended that the referendums be held concurrently with the Senate election. 
I ask the Prime Minister to state his point of order. 
Opposition members  -  Sit down. 
Opposition members  -  Sit down. 
No member may interrupt another Member whilst speaking, unless (1) to call attention to a point of order of privilege suddenly arising; 
The Prime Minister thinks he is above the law in this Parliament. Sit him down. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Leader of the Australian Country Party be granted an extension of time. 
 Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="088131197404025_49_3.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr -FISHER - I thank the House. This table shows, I believe, that the former LiberalCountry Party Government obviously took into account the economic state of the industry at the time when research and promotion legislation was introduced. I impress that fact upon the Government. 
My second query concerns the promotion of wool locally and internationally. It is my genuine belief that adequate Government participation in promotion finance is vital for 2 reasons. 
The first reason is that the advantages of promotion expenditure spread to groups other than wool growers. The advantages spread to textile industries, to employees and employers in those industries, and, of course, to our sales outlets. Secondly, and probably more importantly, Government support gives incentive to the contribution of wool producers. I believe that if this Government incentive is not available we will find that wool producers will not have the same incentive to contribute towards the costs of promotion and research. I wish briefly in relation to promotion to comment on 2 speeches made a fortnight ago by, firstly, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and, secondly, by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  These 2 rural members of the Parliament sit side by side but they have different views about the International Wool Secretariat. For instance, the honourable member for Wilmot, referring to the wool clip, said: 
This production would not have been sold automatically just because it was wool or just because it was wool which  came  from Australia. It is misleading to say that we have sold our wool in total year by year if we do not pay a tribute at the same time to the fact that the promotion activities of the International Wool Secretariat and other groups have made it possible to get rid of our total production. What we have to sell must be publicised, advertised and promoted vigorously and with dedication. 
The honourable member for Macarthur, in a speech in which he was referring to a  Mr A.  S. Watson of the Melbourne University who worked for the International Wool Secretariat for 3 years, pointed out that  Mr Watson  claimed that promotion policies of the International Wool Secretariat 'have probably made wool prices more unstable'. Those are the views of those 2 honourable members who sit together in this House and represent rural electorates. Their views as to the value of the International Wool Secretariat are entirely different. 
I wish also to mention the comments made in relation to the Industries Assistance Commission by the honourable member for Wilmot. I quote again from his speech made on that same day in which he said: 
I hope that the Commission will look at promotion. What I really hope is that the Commission has the expertise to look at these things. 1 am still very suspicious of the Industries Assistance Commission when it comes to rural industries. I wonder whether the Commission knows the difference between a bag of wheat and a bag of oats. The Commission consists of a brand new team. I do not know of any champion rural man on that team. I have great suspicions about the Commission's capacity to handle rural industry. 
I wonder what happened to the honourable member for Wilmot and other rural members of the Australian Labor Party when we debated the Australian Industries Assistance Commission legislation some months ago. I wonder why at that time they did not stand on their feet and say exactly the same things as the honourable member for Wilmot is now saying, perhaps in an attempt to clear himself as an election looms on the horizon. 
This Government has not endeared itself to the heart of rural communities. It would be fair to say that those comments are polite in the extreme. Government backing is necessary to give stability and confidence to all industries but in primary industry, where market prospects and prices rely heavily on supply and demand coupled with favourable climatic conditions, such Government support should be fundamental. No primary industries which are almost totally dependant on export sales can be expected te operate without protection in a developed and high cost country like Australia. In the past the wool industry has not asked for excessive government funding. It ha: not placed any unnecessary burden on the taxpayers. In fact the wool industry has played a leading part in developing the nation to  thi  benefit of the total population. It will continue to do so given satisfactory government recognition. I agree entirely with the honourable member for Canning who pointed out that financial backing for the Australian Wool Corporation is vital to the future of the wool industry. I seek an assurance from the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in this House that his Government is giving adequate financial support to the Australian Wool Corporation to enable it to continue as a viable force in stabilising the price of wool at a satisfactory level. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education who is responsible for child-minding centres. I ask: Will he say that those engaged in controlling children in child-minding centres are amenable to the opportunities for brain washing? Will he clarify this statement so that our position may be made clear? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is leave granted? There toeing no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In the course of his speech the honourable member made a statement that I had allegedly told the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that I felt confident of winning my seat at the next election. No such conversation took place. I have been elected on 9 occasions to this Parliament, and if the Senate takes the unprecedented course of rejecting these Bills I will be a candidate and I am confident of being re-elected. 
I ask the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply: What progress has been made in securing peace-time work projects to ensure the continuity of employment of employees of munitions factories - in particular the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow and the Munitions Filling Factory at St Marys? Is the Minister able to tell the House of any new orders from the Government or private industry which will give confidence to defence workers that their jobs are secure? Finally, will the Minister say what is 'being done to obtain orders for the munitions factories? 
I move: 
That  Mr Gordon  Scholes, the honourable member for Corio, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

Order! The Treasurer's time has expired. 

Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Is it the intention of the Minister to table that document? 

Is there any objection to that course being followed? There being no objecion that course will be followed. 

Order! I ask the honourable member for Kooyong to remain silent. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property to tell the House about the prohibitive cost of the rental and purchase of properties required for Government purposes. Is it a fact that the acceleration of costs and prices had its origin in the failure of the Liberal-Country Party Government to take responsible action to control speculation and prices from 1949 to 1972? Further, in view of those circumstances, will the Minister take action to have buildings erected in selected towns and cities throughout Australia to overcome those problems? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been directed to criticism of the Australian Government in respect of nongovernment schools and charges of discrimination which should be answered? Are these charges valid and will the Minister make a statement in reply to the criticism? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy, the Acting Prime Minister. Can the Minister inform the House of the present proportion of overseas investment in the coal industry? Further, because of the importance of employment, will he indicate production trends in satisfying home and overseas orders? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410223_23_2.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Case: 8559/68 S. v. C. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I remind the honourable gentleman that I wrote to him some time ago regarding the prohibitive rate of 20 per cent interest being paid by a motel proprietor in the electorate of Macquarie. The borrower has now been advised that the rate of interest is to rise to the unmoral height of 24 per cent. I ask the Treasurer: Is he able to take any action to protect the Australian people from the usurious conduct of such finance houses? Is there any machinery available, such as the Prices Justification Tribunal, that will protect Australian people when they are required to borrow money? 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
My dear Prime Minister, 
This letter is written pursuant to the arrangement I proposed to you at our meeting on Wednesday, 23 October. 
It has been a personal concern of mine for some time that there is no adequate attack on the problem of children and adults with a specific learning difficulty. 
The term 'specific learning difficulty' covers a variety of categories including minimal cerebral misfunction, minor brain damage, neurological handicap and dyslexia. The overriding manifestation of these disorders is a difficulty using language; an inability to read and spell and consequently write, despite intelligence arid socio-economic standard. In short, word-blindness. 
The result of this disorder, which is relatively widespread in the community, is a failure by a significant number of people to achieve the standard of education that their intelligence, self-determination and efforts should make possible. 
The consequences for society are significant, because it under-achieves. The consequences for the individual can be traumatic due to the stigma that is attached to an inability to communicate adequately. For example, there is a clear link between the occurrence of juvenile delinquency and learning difficulties. 
The incidence of specific learning, disabilities has not been accurately determined. Nevertheless, surveys have indicated that at least 1 S per cent to 20 per cent of Australian children and adults are affected. Unfortunately, despite the fact that it is so widespread, community awareness of it is minimal. 
I told you during our discussion that I believe we should adopt, as a national purpose, the alleviation of this social problem. It is my wish that this issue should be totally nonpolitical. Accordingly, I approached you as I did so that we could avoid it becoming political. You agreed with this approach. 
We agreed that every means should be taken to bring this to the forefront of public discussion. 
I know you are aware of the work that has been undertaken over the past 6 or 7 years by the SPELD Associations in Australia; the many people working with these associations have performed a remarkable service, attempting to spread awareness of the problem. They feel their efforts are making headway but very slowly. 1 have no doubt that unless attention is focussed on the problem in human terms, then it will remain ignored by the community- to its own disadvantage and the continuing social handicap of those afflicted. 
We agreed that the most suitable immediate approach would be the appointment of a committee of members of the House to examine the problem, assess its nature and extent, its impact on the community and the individual and report on the most appropriate ways of overcoming it. 
We arranged that I would ask you a question stating that I was raising the matter as a national purpose and nonpolitical issue. You would answer in like vein mentioning our discussion and our agreement to the formation of a parliamentary committee. 
We also discussed the composition of your Government's proposed Children's Commission in this context. I indicated the importance in my view of appointing to it a person who has a sound knowledge and close interest in the specific learning disorder field. You kindly volunteered that if I recommended a suitable person, you would appoint that person to the Commission. I appreciate that assurance. I will write in the near future. 
I look forward to joining in a co-operative program of action to tackle this 'hidden' problem. The need for action is very pressing. 
Yours Sincerely, B.M. SNEDDEN 

Order! Before I ascertain whether leave is granted perhaps the Minister for Transport should be allowed to inspect them. 

 Mr Malcolm Fraser, M.H.R., Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Sir, 
The Federation has read newspaper reports of statements alleged to have been made by you in the House of Representatives re 'the indemnity payments admitted to have been made to the Waterside Workers' Federation'. 
I am at this point of time attempting to obtain copies of the exact statement made by yourself in the House of Representatives but in the meantime in order to ensure that no incorrect impression exists in your mind or is allowed to continue without challenge by this Union, I wish to unequivocally advise that no indemnity payment of any character has been sought by the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia in respect of its operations. 
I also wish to make it clear that on no occasion has this Union or any representative of this Union attempted to receive 'indemnity payments' either on its behalf or any other organisation's behalf, nor has it admitted doing so except in the context that wages or other payments in respect of conditions of employment are 'indemnities' or 'compensation' in return for services given. 
I also wish to clearly indicate to you the resentment of this organisation and its members at any distortions of truth which may be presented by any person anywhere in respect of our operations. 
Yours faithfully, 
H. FITZGIBBON 24 September 1974 
Dear  Mr Fitzgibbon, 
Thank you very much for your letter. 
However, 1 would like further amplification of the third paragraph in the light of certain newspaper reports, namely The Sydney Morning Herald of 1 1 September 1974 and the Financial Review of 10 September 1 974. 
Yours sincerely, MALCOLM FRASER 
Mr C. H. Fitzgibbon, General Secretary, Waterside Workers' Federation, P.O. Box 344. Haymarket, N.S.W. 2000. 1 October 1974 
Hon. J. M. Fraser, M.H.R., Parliament House, CANBERRA A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Sir, 
I am in receipt of your letter of 24 September 1974 in which you seek amplification of the 3rd par. of my letter of 20 September 1974 'in the light of certain newspaper reports, namely the Sydney Morning Herald of 11 September 1974 and the Financial Review of 10 September 1974.' 
I would not think that you, as a practising politician, would take a newspaper report which was not a direct substantiated quote as being a valid reason for 'clarification' of anything. 
For example, no statement was given to The Sydney Morning Herald. The article was the result of a syndicated article from another newspaper and incidentally appeared in somewhat different form to the original. 
Neither article expressed accurately what was said. I suggest anyway that reporters do not always get down exactly over the phone everything said and neither do they get their articles through sub-editors without distortions occurring. 
I therefore would not attempt to provide clarification 'in the light of certain newspaper reports.' 
However, if you are not clear as to the meaning of the 3rd par. of my letter I do not mind clarifying that. 
The word 'indemnity' can apply to a whole range of legitimate activities and commercial and industrial agreements. (See Definition Shorter Oxford Dictionary) 
Therefore in saying 'This Union has not sought nor has received indemnity payments on its behalf or on behalf of any other organisation ' we do so in the following context. 
We are saying it clearly in the context that we have not asked for nor received a payment in lieu of an Agreement or the conditions we were seeking. 
We would declare our right to conclude legitimate industrial agreements which compensate workers for the disabilities arising from their particular type of employment. 
In respect of monies commented on by the Financial Review and the Sydney Morning Herald articles, you should be aware that the accurate position is- 
The question of indemnity payments in the context of payments to allow vessels to work without providing the appropriate wages or conditions does not arise in the ITF Flags-of-Convenience campaign. 
Each FOC vessel enters into an industrial agreement with the ITF (with the Federation acting as the ITF agent, at the request of the latter) which- 
1 ) provides for the ITF wage standards for various classifications. (The ITF international policy in this matter is one designed to ensure that seafarers obtain a justified minimum wage standard- varying from the ILO minimum for some vessels and a special rate where vessels are only used in the trade to Asia to in other cases, where the runaway flag vessel is deserting the national flag of a high-cost country, a wage approximating the European average, 
provides for minimum standards of leave, compensation, victualling etc. 
provides for deduction of Union dues to the International Seafarers Section of the ITF. 
provides for a Welfare Fund Payment to the ITF which is used by the ITF to support welfare facilities for seafarers throughout the world and which replaces the contributions made by National Flag carriers either by donation or taxation to maintain such centres. 
Where reference is made to 'back wage' payments to crews it must be understood that this money does not come to the WWF nor to the ITF. It is money paid to the crews where it has been dicovered that they have been underpaid. 
Trusting this clarifies our position for you. 
Yours faithfully, 
H. Fitzgibbon General Secretary 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member for Wannon to confine his remarks to where he has been misrepresented and not to become involved in anything argumentative. 
I would also like to say that one part of a Press report which had been quoted also misrepresented, and I picked up this misrepresentation, the Minister for Transport himself because the Press report, and consequently myself in the Parliament, gave the impression that the Minister for Transport had given some immunity to the Waterside Workers Federation over an indemnity payments issue.  Mr Fitzgibbon  has made it perfectly plain that that conversation related to the WWF's  flags of convenience campaign, which again flows back to the  ITF's  position and the ILO Convention No. 109, which Australia has ratified. But, as I have been advised, they are payments collected by agreement and they do go to the ships' crews involved, fully receipted and  fully documented. A good deal of that documentation, if not all of it, appears in a recent publication of the 'Maritime Worker'. So I believe that the issues are separate and separable and that on all the evidence available to me the Waterside Workers Federation position is quite different and separate from the involvement of the Seamen's Union in the Royal Commission which is presently sitting. I regret that I picked up the misrepresentation concerning the WWF and repeated it in this Parliament. 
-The honourable member would not be entitled to refer to the name of any person against whom litigation has commenced or against whom proceedings of any kind are pending, even to the extent of an extradition order. But it would be within the right of the honourable member for Hunter to deal with any other matters outside of that scope dealing with political and social questions within Australia. I ask the honourable member to be careful to make sure that he does not refer to any matter in regard to which action has been taken already by the Attorney-General, as reported in the Senate Hansard. 
Before I came into this Parliament I had it in my mind that anything that is evil to the system should be exposed and expanded upon and that anything that is for good and for the benefit of the people should be applauded and advertised. That is my overall objective. I only wish that it was the objective of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and other honourable members on his side of the House. When one rises in the House, as I frequently do, to speak on these matters with the sole objective of preserving our cherished democratic system, one finds opposition from members opposite, such as the opposition which has been raised by the honourable member for Parramatta. Parliamentary privilege is given to members of Parliament to disclose these things. There should be more of us disclosing the things which ultimately, if they are not disclosed and not acted upon, will bring about the downfall of the democratic system. If this ever happens in my lifetime, I will attribute it to the actions taken by members of the Opposition when I have risen to disclose the very things that will bring about the downfall of government of the people, by the people, for the people. 
When I raise these matters I receive many letters from people who are interested in such things asking why more politicians do not take the same action. Last night, when endeavouring to expose these things, strong opposition came from and points of order were taken by members of the Opposition. Now, when I try again to disclose these rackets, points of order have been taken by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Parramatta. I do not know how those honourable members would answer their electors if they asked them: 'Why do you not allow the honourable member for Hunter to speak?', because society is vitally interested in these things. The shareholders of these companies who were robbed of $21m are vitally interested in what action the politicians are taking. 
In the short time available to me, I state that I hope that the New South Wales Government will cleanse itself by having the Federal Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  take over the prosecutions of these arch spivs and racketeers in Latin America. The New South Wales Government should let the Federal AttorneyGeneral institute the prosecutions. They should take place in the Australian Capital Territory before an Australian Capital Territory jury, an Australian Capital Territory judge and, if necessary, a crown prosecutor of the calibre of  Mr Vince  Wallace, Q.C., the  Deputy  Senior Crown Prosecutor from the New South Wales criminal courts. Then the public would be satisfied not only that justice was done but also that justice appeared to be done. I regret that the honourable member for Parramatta endeavoured to stifle my remarks. To a degree, he has succeeded in stifling me from disclosing more facts which I intended to disclose because my time has expired and I cannot do so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411190_46_3.jpg"></graphic>

I want to make one final comment in this debate, as I have been advised that it must be curtailed in a few minutes. I make a special plea to the Minister to consider giving extra financial assistance to boarding schools situated in rural areas. These schools have to contend with the added difficulty of attracting staff to them because of the difficulty that the members of the staff have in finding jobs for their children in rural areas. Also, the staff of these schools are faced with extra costs due to the cost of transport being added to every item which is brought in. Additionally, because these schools usually cater for specific children from farming areas, it is most desirable to have included in their curricula special courses designed for the boys and girls who will return to rural areas either as members of the Public Service or as people engaged in primary industry. It is absolutely essential that these children have the opportunity of pursuing an agricultural type of education, bearing in mind that the farmer of the future will be a business man, an economist and a philosopher. 
The Australian Country Party supports the concept of assistance being given to counter the effects of inflation. I want to emphasise once again our deep political and philosophical belief that it is the responsibility and the right of every parent to choose the type of education that his child shall receive, and it is the Government's responsibility to give to each child in this country a per capita contribution to help him or her meet his or her educational requirements. 
-I have received a message from the Senate acquainting the House that the Senate agrees with the resolution of the House of Representatives varying the resolution of appointment of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament. 
-The honourable member's point is well taken. The debate has ranged very widely over the whole rural economy, but I ask the right honourable gentleman to try to return to the provisions of the Bill. 
I want to finish the point I was developing in relation to the wheat industry. The Australian consumer is getting his wheat at half the price which most other countries are paying on the world market. If there is no recognition of the importance of a subsidy for the dairy industry the whole of orderly marketing is under threat. We hear so often about New Zealand being an efficient producer of dairy products. How many people know that in New Zealand last year $42.256m was paid in subsidy to the milk producers, who of course represent most of the production of the dairy industry. It is believed that this year the subsidy in New Zealand for milk production will climb as high as $59m. The Australian dairy industry should not be discredited for getting a pittance so that in the long term people would know that they could get regular supplies of dairy products at a reasonable price, as my argument has shown quite conclusively. 
This piece of legislation is excellent in helping one area of the dairy industry. It contains proposals that were brought forward by the previous Government. The bulk milk supply provision was a policy commitment that we announced in the 1972 election campaign. There is no new thinking by the present Administration in this legislation that was not displayed by the previous Government, although it provides more refinement. There is extreme disappointment in factories in Australia that no funds are made available for the improvement of factory machinery and equipment. 

Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? .  Mr CONNOLLY-I  do, indeed. I should like to quote what I said in the House and compare it with what I allegedly said according to this newspaper. The newspaper report stated: 

 Mr Connolly said he did not quarrel with the Prime Minister making so many trips but he did object to him not making a statement to the Parliament on the results of his trips. 
It is quite absurd to expect that I would support the fact that in 2 years the Prime Minister has made more than 12 overseas trips to no fewer than 40 countries. To suggest that I would accept such an incredible extravagance, especially the most recent European tour which will cost the taxpayers about $lm and will include the overseas travel of some 40 other persons, presumably including wives, is a travesty of the fact. The Prime Minister's effectiveness should be based on the quality of his administration, not on the size of his retinue. In fact what I said was, and I quote from Hansard page 3419: 
I do not quarrel with the principle of the rights of a Prime Minister and leaders of a government to travel overseas to ensure that they are up to date with trends and expectations  of other nations, but what I do comment on is that on their return it is the right of the Australian people through their Parliament to know what the Prime Minister and the Ministers have learnt by their experiences. It is not good enough just to swan around the world using taxpayers' money and then returning to ominous silence. We do not want silence from a government. We want to know what its policies are and the people of this country want to know what son of leadership they have both domestically and in a foreign context. 
I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I do so because I believe that the words uttered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this evening about the importance of this Bill, its ramifications and the tremendous social implications involved make it of such tremendous importance that we should not be rushing into a hasty decision. Let us remember that the Senate has dealt with this Bill for 12 months. How can we in the dying hours of this session- which has been packed with legislation, perhaps more than at any other time in the history of Australia- when it would be extremely difficult now for honourable members to recount the measures which have passed through this place, have an appreciation of it and understand it? How can we be expected to follow in any detail discussions and debates which have occurred in another place? 
This Bill is of tremendous importance. The Prime Minister came in a few minutes before the adjournment motion was moved to present this Bill- virtually in the last days of the session. I ask therefore that we give to this social measure, this tremendous question of divorce- basically it is a question of divorce, the separation of couples who have been joined in matrimony- the mature consideration that it deserves so that no one outside this place will be able to accuse us of injuring them in any respect. If our minds go back to what has occurred in the past, we will remember that the Barwick divorce Act, when it was presented as a Bill to the Parliament, occasioned considerable debate and we all had an opportunity to consider that Bill in this place. It was not something brought from another place without the words of a speech and without the words of the Bill, with nothing to guide us at all. How can we, therefore, come back into this place next week to determine these subjects of supreme importance unless we have all the information made available to us? 
It is not for us tonight to attempt in any way to express our feelings as to the merits of this measure or what amendments should be foreshadowed. Do we believe that, at this time at the end of this wearying and tiring session, we can apply our minds to this matter of conscience in such a way as to produce the right answer for the Parliament and for the people of Australia? If a ground for divorce is to be that people must be separated for only 12 months, even if they are living under the same roof- I do not canvass that matter this evening- and if we are to consider all the various proposals in this Bill surely the opportunity ought to be presented to honourable members to thoroughly investigate every aspect of it before it is debated. We should remember that 1 1 February is only a few months away. A deferral until then will give honourable members an opportunity not only to inform their minds but also to be informed by responsible people in the community at large and by the leaders of the community. Two of the major churches in Australia have suggested that the Bill ought to be stood over for 6 months. The amendment is not seeking such a deferral; it is seeking merely that the Bill be stood over until the commencement of the next session when it can be debated and when no other matters will cloud the issue. I ask honourable members to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lyne. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="092131197411282_104_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411282_104_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand pan of the question. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and remind him of the deep interest of the Australian people in the mining, treatment and sale of uranium. Can the Minister confirm the recent Press reports that Kathleen Investments (Australia) Ltd has not taken up its full entitlement to shares in the issue of Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd which closed last Friday? If so, what is the effect on the underwriting arrangements with the Atomic Energy Commission? 
-Is there very much of it? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will be aware of the serious market outlook for the beef industry of Australia. Did he discuss this question with the  President  of the United States during his recent visit? Was this subject also discussed with the Japanese Prime Minister on his trip to Australia? Can the Prime Minister list the countries in which he will be having discussions on the beef industry during his forthcoming tour of Europe? Does the Prime Minister agree that the serious position faced by beef producers in Australia justifies top level discussions on the future of this important industry? I would ask the Prime Minister to give priority to discussions of this kind. 
-I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What stage has been reached in the construction of the Moomba-Sydney natural gas pipeline? When is completion of the main trunkline expected? When will the laterals to the major provincial cities in New South Wales, including Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange, be completed? I have not asked anything on prices. No doubt a further question will be asked. 

 Mr CONNOR The commitment of the Pipeline Authority is to construct 1300 kilometres of pipeline from Gidgealpa to a point some 60 kilometres south of Sydney. Thirty per cent of that- 387 kilometres- has been constructed. The target date for completion- this allows for possible bad weather but not for industrial stoppages- is 2 1 January of next year. With regard to the laterals, now that the New South Wales Government has finally decided that the lateral to Newcastle will be built along the coast, we are in a position to make a final determination in respect of them, both to the areas in which the honourable member is rightly interested and also to Wagga Wagga and Cootamundra. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
In view of the concern caused by statements made as to the threatened or actual discontinuance of the travelling post office, will the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral clarify the position? Will the Minister either confirm or refute the implication apparent in correspondence that an agreement has been reached between the Australian Post Office and the New South Wales Government on a time-table for the cessation of this valuable service? I ask the Minister to inform the House and the nation of the facts of this matter. 
-The honourable member may make a personal explanation but he is not permitted to engage further in debate. 

 Mr MATHEWS (Casey)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I was misrepresented by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  when he took a point of order. The reference in the last few words I was able to speak before I was interrupted was to the firm of Patrick Partners and not to any individual. 
-Has the document been seen by the Minister? 
It is the duty of this Parliament to make good laws- laws which will protect the weak and provide justice for the whole community. Our Constitution provides for peace, order and good government. 
The Family Law Bill has been drafted to provide for easier, speedier divorce. It is an attack upon marriage, the family, the woman, the homemaker, the mother. 1 oppose the measure. I welcome the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  as it provides an opportunity to the Parliament to consider this legislation in a more embracing and thorough fashion. 
The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who preceded me in this debate said that changes had to be made in the law. Few of us would deny that changes should be made. I believe that changes are inevitable. But the changes which we make, the changes that this Parliament decides to place on the statute book, should be well thought out. They should not form part of a conglomeration of words and amendments which came from the Senate and are now presented to this place as the ultimate in providing for matrimonial happiness or, to be more precise, the dissolution of marriagedivorce. Nor should we be satisfied that this is the final expression. The right honourable member for Lowe referred to children and the need for welfare workers. Welfare workers have their place, but there is no substitute anywhere for parents, home and the love and affection which may come from a well adjusted and well organised home. 
This nation has been built on sound foundations of marriage and family. The family is the firm foundation stone of our society. To me it is a tragic matter that Parliament should be asked to approve this Bill which must deal a devastating blow to our families and which places marriage on the basis of a yearly contract, because that is what the Bill does in clauses 48 and 49. In my estimation, this all forms part of a general campaign, which has gathered momentum in recent times, to attack marriage, the home and the family. Opportunities are being provided for someone to do the job that a mother ought to do. We should be directing our attention to the priceless place of a mother in the home and to assisting her to do the things that she should be doing as the queen of the household organising and ordering the family life. But she goes out to work, quite often by necessity. If a woman wants to go out to work because it is her desire to do so, it is a different matter. But quite frequently it is not her desire at all.  Her  attention to work is dictated by stern economic realities. 
I should like to think that this Government, which has done so much in the field of social reform, which has provided a grant for children who are isolated in the education sense, which has provided a grant to the handicapped child who did not receive a benefit previously and which has provided a benefit to the orphan child who had become a ward of the State, will now direct its attention to building up the home by providing additional funds so that home life may be strengthened. Clause 43 contains a delightful expression which is an adornment and an ornament. Clause 43 states in part: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. 
What a delightful expression. What a wonderful manner of presenting a Bill of this kind. One would think that this would have been a monumental piece of legislation to strengthen and protect families, not for the easy, speedy, quickie divorce for which the legislation before this House at present provides. 
If one examines clauses 48 and 49 one sees that the basis for a divorce is mere separation for a period of 12 months. The separation need not be real in the sense that husband and wife live under separate roofs; they can be separated in some fashion or other. Clause 43 contains the phrase 'to the exclusion of all others'. Yet clause 6 states: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
We were given some information that that might deal with people in the field of foreign affairs. That is a delightful understatement of a situation. I could contemplate some types of people taking trips to Bali to enter into further marital relationships- polygamous of course- but returning to Australia as cleanskins in the matrimonial sense. Yet clause 43 in a most virtuous fashion holds up the delightful situation of a marriage between a husband and a wife being 'to the exclusion of all others'. This is a brand of double talk which should not be accepted under any circumstances. I feel that this preliminary has been written into this Bill to sell features of it. It must not, and will not, be accepted by all the people of Australia, or by the great majority of the people of Australia. Quite a deal has been said about the Christian concept. The church has been pushed somewhat into the background on this matter, not with any reluctance but quite openly. It has been said that we have to consider this legislation in a secular and civil sense. Of course that is so, but what types of marriages are most of those that take place in Australia? They are Christian marriages and quite often we hear the words: 'For richer for poorer, for sickness and in health, until death us do part. ' These days those words have been thrown out. In clause 43 the words 'to the exclusion of all others' are just so much a floral offering on the garbage can of divorce, divorces which will be facilitated and added to by this legislation. 
We again see in clause 48 the use of the words 'irretrievable breakdown'. What does 'irretrievable breakdown mean'? It means no more nor less than that a spouse has decided to desert the partner. For example, the husband has decided to leave the wife who has found someone else. He has gambled and spent his money. He has led a life of debauchery. The wife has worked hard during the marriage and at the end of 12 months we find under this legislation that the husband can walk out and the marriage is terminated because under clause 48 the married couple have separated and . the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
The short title of this Bill is an utter misnomer. It is called the "Family Law Bill '. I could have only hoped that those who drafted this measure would have been utterly honest and would have described it as a divorce Bill, a matrimonial causes Bill or something of that kind because this Bill does not describe the married situation. It does not describe the position of the family. Looking at the number of divorces during 1 973 one finds that the wife petitioned for divorce on 13 144 occasions and the husband on 8055 occasions. In 5891 cases the ground for divorce was desertion. Those figures indicate that the women have been the losers under the legislation that we have had and inevitably they are going to be the losers under this legislation which we are called upon to debate today. I am utterly astonished, amazed and disgusted that in this year- International Women's Year- we should have legislation of this kind which purports to help women, to strengthen the cause of women but which places them in such an invidious position. Clause 48 of the Bill reads: 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of the marriage. 
Clause 49 reads: . 
The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside in the same residence or that either party has rendered some household services to the other. 
Let us contemplate the following position. The mother, concerned about her family, concerned about her position with the other-people in the community, knowing perhaps that her husband has not done the right thing by her, has continued to try to make a home. She has rendered service to her husband; she has cooked his meals; she has mended his clothes; she has attended to all domestic chores in the home. Despite all this that woman can be- divorced. As was pointed put by a solicitor, one of the honourable members, in the course of this debate, the man could bring into the house a mistress- this is not extraordinary and it is not something that has  .-t  occurred  a at th* ..A  of  10  months a ^  I Y~  orce could occur. Is this the type of legislation that we are asked to place on the statute books of this nation? Is that the type of loose, shoddy legislation that we are to approve? , 
Let us look over the figures for the reasons for dissolution of marriage: Desertion 5891 cases; adultery 5490 cases; separation 2186 cases; cruelty 1660 cases. Yet we are told that there is to be one ground- separation. Desertion is not mentioned. Provision for the person who deserts his wife and piles up a heap of debts and involves his wife in problems is not made.. .The ground is to be merely separation. Desertion ought to be considered; cruelty ought to be considered; adultery ought to be considered. Also I make a plea for those people who want separation but not divorce. I see no reason why judicial separation, although not used to a great extent at present, should not be provided for in future legislation. 
What we do by law is an indicator to the people in the community of what is good conduct. When we write a law providing for divorce at the end of 12 months, young people contemplating divorce will freely look at the situation and say: 'Well, if I am not satisfied then in 12 months time I can break this union'. Think of the tragedy which has been caused to young people because of breaks- in marriage when young people are thrown out of harmony. It is one of the great social evils and ills in this country at the present time. Recently I had the opportunity of reading an address given by  Mr Justice  McClemens, Chief Judge in Common Law of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. It was a speech made at the conclusion of his long and illustrious career. He said: 
My reading over the last quarter of a century and my experience convince me that in many cases crime is the result of divorce, deprivation and insecurity in childhood. In many cases, delinquency and car stealings, and breaking, entering and stealing by adolescents already represents the establishment of irreversible patterns. We live in a highly developed, sophisticated, technological community. As a community, does our philosophy of life take into account that, above all others, children require justice and that so many children are the victims of irreversible injustice? Children are the victims of irreversible injustice if they are deprived of parents, love, security, discipline and the opportunity to be children. 
And so the learned judge went on to deliver his wise and sensible words. These are the things we ought to be paying attention to. We should be looking to see how we can build up the family; how we can build up homes; how we can strengthen the community. These are the vital and important considerations. I am disturbed also by clause 72 which in the final analysis throws the responsibility in court cases on the  r* ii v) mc  mother  m:r, j ... aa in  firmly as  n  docs  nil*  man, the father. Of course, this is the modern idea- equality for the sexes. We give the wife the equality of paying the bills. That is her great equality in this legislation which is before us at the present time. 
I think that it is a deplorable piece of legislation. I can only hope that, if the contingent motion proposed by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is carried, the Bill will be redrafted in a sense that it will strengthen homes, strengthen families, protect women, protect children and help to advance this country. This legislation fails to do that. It provides for a divorce after 12 months. It will be the standard in this country. No blame will be attached to anyone. A person can perform any act of indecency and can cause his wife shattering, nerve-racking, healthdestroying worries. What happens? He walks out because there will be none of this unsightliness or unseemliness. It will not be advertised but who can say that it has not been there? It has been there the whole time. This problem has existed the whole time. The only thing we have been able to do is to permit it to be brushed under the carpet provided by this Government for this nation of ours by this private member's Bill. I sincerely trust that the amendment will be carried and then we can reconstruct the Bill into something that meets the requirements of this nation. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I call the honourable member for Wimmera. 
-I ask the Minister for Services and Property to tell the House of financial dealings between his Department and the insurance companies of Australia. Is the Minister in a position to give details of properties leased from insurance companies throughout Australia by the Australian Government? If so, what is the amount of space and the cost to the Government, at the latest available date, of such accommodation leased by the Australian Government? 
-It is a trite saying that you cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear, and it would be exceedingly difficult to make a good law out of the present bad law and almost impossible to make a good law out of the Bill at present before the Committee and introduced by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I believe that with the machinery of government, the machinery of consideration of law, however fine and useful the Committee system has been it is almost an impossible task to draft a law in this fashion which will meet all the needs and requirements of our people. The correct course would have been to have a commission of inquiry so that people responsible in matrimonial and child care matters could prepare the framework of a law for the consideration of Parliament. Numerous amendments are before the Committee for consideration. One vote may well decide all the amendments, including the proposal of the Attorney-General himself. All of these matters could be disposed of by one decision. 
I personally believe that marriage is a permanent, mutual, contracted union. It is a Christian philosophy and belief that marriage is permanent, mutual and binding. Yet we have heard  speaker  after  speaker  in this Committee debate putting forward the view that if one person deserts another that is a reasonable way to end a marriage. Would the same honourable members be prepared to say that any other form of contractwhether it be for the purchase of a block of land, a home or a motor car, or an industrial agreement- could be ended by one person saying: 'I will not have anything to do with it in the future '? Yet we have heard  speaker  after  speaker  saying that 2 people cannot live together. In the Bill before us it is not a question of 2 people not agreeing to live together. It is a question of one deserting the other and bringing about a state of affairs in which a divorce will be decided by the court because there is no alternative. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  made this point without any reason for it does not meet the circumstances in any way. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  talked about the simpler way of doing things- living apart for a period of 12 months. Is the mere living apart for 12 months enough? For my part, it is not enough. While I am called upon here today to make a decision on what there should be and what there should not be- the type of law that we should have in the future- I will say quite frankly that the present law is not good enough, that the law proposed by the Attorney-General is less favourable than the existing law, and that if I have to make a judgment I must come down on the side of supporting the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  because it tries in some way to meet the requirements of 3 categories of people. It meets the requirements of those who agree that they should divorce and by consent they live separately and apart for a period of 12 months; it meets the requirements of those who are still contesting the issue and for whom, under this amendment, the period before which the divorce will be granted is 24 months, and it also meets the requirements of those who might go to a court concerning a matter of conduct or blame in which cases a lesser period is stipulated. 
For those reasons I support the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth for I believe that at this time it represents the only possible hope of retrieving something from this unfortunate situation brought about by the proposal presently before the Committee. 
-When speaking during the second reading debate on this legislation I dealt with the concept of judicial separation. I think it is the responsibility of members of Parliament to look to the needs of all people of our country. They should look to the thoughts, the views, the feelings, the religious considerations and all those matters that help to make us a community. For some considerable time past judicial separation has been an important feature of matrimonial matters. The amendment proposed this evening, which seems a most proper amendment, has offended the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby),  who said that it conflicts with what we have already done. Of course we have already declared without any equivocation that a separation of 12 months is automatic grounds for divorce. The decision on this matter is complete and nothing can be done to alter that situation. But if 2 people feel in their own consciences and in their own religious beliefs that they want a judicial separation- not because they want to flout the high motives and the morality of the Attorney-General- should this Committee by its decision say that course should not be available to them? I think that it is an affront to a substantial section of the Australian people to say that a judicial separation will be denied. 
It is true that only a very small percentage of people who have sought a dissolution of marriage or who have come before matrimonial courts have sought a judicial separation, but irrespective of who the people might be or what religion they might follow or what their thoughts might be on these important social and human issues, surely it is the responsibility of the Parliament to take into consideration the requirements of those people. It is not for the AttorneyGeneral or for anybody else to say: 'This is the package deal you are going to have whether you like it or not '. I put it to the Committee this evening that in order to meet the conscience of a substantial body of people in Australia, a judicial separation should not be denied by the steamroller tactics of the Attorney-General The concept of a judicial separation ought to be accepted by the Committee as a reasonable, just and proper one. 
-Clause 6 should be rejected. It is foreign in every sense to the traditions that we have known, the type of marriage that we have come to accept in our country and the conditions of life in our country. Those who commit bigamy in Australia are dealt with very sternly. Yet, this Bill- the Family Law Bill, as it is so delightfully described- provides that a married person may leave Australia, go to a foreign country where customs are different, where the laws are different and where traditions are very much strange and foreign to our own, enter into a union with a spouse and return to Australia with another wife. That is to be accepted as the normal situation. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  would approve of that. I am wondering now what the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would have to say if an already married member of Parliament returned from Bali, Djakarta or somewhere else and asked for the admission into Australia of a wife whom he had acquired or wooed and won in some foreign place. 
This clause violates everything in which we have been taught to believe. It is even in conflict with the embellishments in the Bill which set out the principles to be applied by courts. I quote from the Bill merely to show the extent to which the framers of the Bill, those who are responsible for drafting it, are in conflict. Clause 43 (a) of the Bill states: -the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
These are the brave, moral, soul-stirring words of the Bill as expressed in clause 43. Yet, clause 6, which we are obliged to discuss at this moment, states: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
There is nothing doubtful about that clause. It is unambiguous and clear-cut. A married person can leave Australia and marry again in another country, and he is entitled to claim that woman as his wife. That person can bring that wife back to Australia to live in this land with his lawful wife whom the community in this country recognises, and he has fulfilled the laws and requirements of our land. 
If this clause cannot be thrown out entirely, the only alternative is to try to do as much as we can to redeem the situation by accepting the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  It would appear from the comments of my colleagues that every time a person left Australia- we have so many travellers these days- he would be able to acquire a wife in some foreign country and bring her to this land. Perhaps this is a delightful and new way to get around our immigration laws and to build up our population. But I think those who propose this in the main would be those who support zero population growth. The clause contains an extraordinary conflict of ideas in this regard. I think it should be rejected. It is utterly foreign to and out of harmony with the conditions of our country. 
-Clause 43 stands out as a rare orchid in the desert of this legislation. The words contained in the clause would certainly bring comfort to many people. It expresses noble sentiments. It gives encouragement to those who are troubled by matrimonial problems. When the law has been enacted it will assure those who have problems that the Government and the law makers of our country have a conscience and a soul. They have written a piece of legislation which, with all virtue, upholds the sacrament of marriage for Christians who believe in it This clause in its nobility seems to me to have all those virtues. 
Many of us who have spoken during the second reading debate and on the various clauses have been trenchant in our criticism of those responsible for framing the Bill. We have vigorously expressed our feelings in regard to the sins of omission and commission of the authors of the Bill. But here we find these wonderful words- words which would give great encouragement to anyone concerned with matrimonial matters. It refers to 'the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage', 'the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society', the responsibility for the care and education of dependent children, 'the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare', and 'the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage '. These are wonderful words. I rise merely to pay a tribute and a compliment to those who drafted this Bill and to say that these are encouraging words. As I said, they stand out as a rare orchid, perhaps like a beautiful lily on a mountain crag. They give some hope to people that there is in this Parliament and in those who framed the legislation a soul and a conscience. They give some hope for the married and for humanity. 
Whilst the amendment of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  expresses a thought which highlights more than anything else the disastrous features of the legislation generally, I doubt whether it will achieve very much. May I express a thought on the amendment which has been circulated by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I think that it would be most unfortunate to destroy this delightful work, this beautiful composition, this beautiful work of art, this marvellous skill of the draftsman by omitting anything and by putting in the words proposed by the right honourable member. It would certainly be a blot on the legislation. All I say is that if we cannot eventually accept the proposal put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  we should not meddle with the clause at all. 
Amendment negatived. 
-The amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is one which would find approval in almost any assembly in this country. I am sure that if the Leader of the Opposition's proposal were to be put to a meeting in any city or town in this country the majority of the people at that meeting would be pleased to support it. The Leader of the Opposition has proposed the insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph 3 of clause 75 (2):  (ca) the need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue her role as a wife and mother; 
What is wrong with that? What offence does that give? In the brave new world in which we live and in which women are, in their estimation, being elevated quite frequently to a position of equality, and the right to go out to work is not a choice but a necessity, we find that it is now being said to them: 'You are equal- equal in the right to pay your bills and equal in the right to go to work'. When I became involved in the great political party which has made such a contribution to the development of Australia over the years- the Australian Labor Party- I was reared on the credo, on the thought and on the belief that what we were trying to do for women was to take them out of industry- take them from the mines and from the workshops- and give them a position of dignity in their own home in which they could care for their children, be greatly respected and preside over the moulding of the character and human quality of our people and the building of our nation. All the duties which today are performed by creches, pre-schools, kindergartens, clubs and other places that care for young people, previously were performed in the home with the mother's care, love and affection. 
What the present amendment proposes to do is to say in plain, clear and unmistakable words that there is a need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue her role as wife and mother. This brave new world! This world in which we force the woman to go from home to industry where she has to meet obligations of very great costs- maintenance and other debts. The only way she will be able to discharge those debts is by leaving her children, leaving her home, and not being permitted to do the things that this amendment would ask that we allow her to do. This undoubtedly is an attack upon the mothers and an assault on children, for how may a mother care for her children if she is compelled to go out to employment in order to meet her financial obligations- to become the breadwinner? Let us contemplate the situation where the husband has left the home and the mother is charged with the responsibility of maintaining the family and paying the debts that come her way. The court will not look upon her as the woman, the mother, the wife, the bearer of children, the one responsible for the upbringing of the family; it will look upon her as just another person, another party. 
We in this place, we in this Committee, are drafting the words that will be used by the judges of the future in deciding these matters. Honourable members come forward in Committee with a letter or something of that nature saying: 'This is what someone wrote'. The courts of the future will determine all these matters according to the words we write in this measure. I ask the Committee to include in the legislation the words proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I bring to the attention of the House this evening a grievous complaint of one of my constituents whose husband died. An insurance company has refused to pay a benefit which she claims should be paid. The husband of the lady in question- a doctor, a man of repute- was known favourably in the community.  His  life was insured with the Occidental Life Insurance Company of California. The insurance company accepted premiums from the lady's late husband. Some time ago he left for Queensland on sabbatical leave but before going he left premiums to be paid to the insurance company. During his period of leave he was in Brisbane, was caught in the disastrous floods which so damaged the city of Brisbane, and suffered some ill effects. He found on returning to his home that his premiums had not been paid and he was advised by the company that his policy had lapsed. On 20 February last year he applied for the reinstatement of his policy. This application was acknowledged by the company which asked that blood pressure readings be given. These were provided. On 8 August 1 974 the man was advised by the insurance company that his policy had been reinstated arid that, to quote the letter that was received, 'full protection is again in operation'. The company returned to him the sum of $219.83 which had been overpaid on the premium. 
The policy holder unfortunately died from a rare disease. The insurance company has refused to make payment. The widow has put forward her case quite clearly, pointing out the facts that payments were made and the company itself had accepted the reinstatement of the policy. Despite that, and the pleading letters of the widow who is a mother of 4 school-age children the company has continued to refuse to make payment. The company is the Occidental Life Insurance Company of California. The company claims that it did not make the payment because it did not receive the reports of the blood pressure tests in time. But the company had acknowledged the receipt of these readings and also had acknowledged the reinstatement of the policy. This was clear and unmistakeable. 
I regard this matter to be of such importance that I have written to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to bring it to his attention. I believe that the matter is of such gravity that the Parliament, this House, should know of the conduct of the people who run this insurance company. 1 believe that this action does not represent the standard set by all life insurance companies. I do know of some insurance companies that have behaved in quite a different manner indeed. I know of a company which, in one case, paid the benefit on the death of the policy holder because that POliCy holder had made his intention clear and had signed a document which had provided that payments would be made through group insurance; and although not one payment was made, upon the death of the policy holder the company paid the benefit in full. Yet the company which is the subject of my speech tonight, after all the pleadings from the widow, had denied its responsibility and has spoken about the 'niceties' of the law. 
The widow of this policy holder wrote to the company. These are some of the points that she made: 
The premium was paid in good faith several months before my husband 's death and was retained by you. 
On 16 July my husband had the requested blood pressure readings and these were acceptable to your company as evidenced in the letter of 6 August. I suggested that on 16 July my husband had in fact completed to your satisfaction the reinstatement of his policy, his premium was paid and satisfactory medical evidence was documented. 
On 16 July, incidentally, my husband was fit and well and participated in his full time psychiatry course normally. When  Dr Ho  took his blood pressure there was no reason to consider my husband was anything but fit and well. 
On 17 July my husband contracted a rare and fatal disease, the details of which, no doubt,  Dr Davis  has explained to you. 
This letter clearly documents the position of this woman. I bring this matter to the attention of honourable members this evening because I think that the facts should be known. As I have pointed out, I have written to the AttorneyGeneral. I have written also to  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation and the Minister who is in charge of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation which was recently before this chamber so that he, too, might understand the conduct of some insurance offices and just how they operate in our country. 
I make this plea this evening in the hope that perhaps the insurance company will, even belatedly, retreat from the type of letter which it has written to the widow of the policy holder. The letter to which I refer reads: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I ask: What stage has been reached in the construction of the lateral natural gas pipelines to Lithgow, Bathurst, Orange and Wagga? Is the Minister in a position to give an assurance that the work will proceed without delay? 
-The matter  I  wish to raise in this debate concerns many Austraiian citizens who are victims of an unjust system of land valuation as it affects local government ratepayers. The matter has received some attention from time to time and is mainly one which comes within the jurisdiction of State governments. I raise this matter in the House today because I believe it is of very great importance. Perhaps it is a question that could usefully be discussed in conferences between the Australian and State governments. It also might be discussed, to some advantage, at the Constitutional Convention meetings. 
I ventilate this matter today because the Australian Government has shown initiative in a number of areas and here is another opportunity for the Australian Government to deal with a question. Ratepayers- goods citizens of this country- are suffering from an oppressive land valuation system when applied to the collection of local government rates. The New South Wales Government is unmoved by the burden being borne by some of the nation's best citizens. I make a plea today for thought and consideration to be given to these people who have helped to pioneer our country, have reared families and have built homes for the purpose of having a place in which to live in the closing period of their lives. They find, unfortunately, that because of the present land valuation system quite frequently rates skyrocket and land values increase as a result of the activities of speculators, developers and others who buy lots of land. This, in turn, affects the people who do not wish to be moved and whose property values remain approximately the same over the years. 
Honourable members would know that local government rates are based on the unimproved capital value of land. Recent land sales are taken as a measure of the unimproved capital value. I should like to point out how injustice is brought to citizens. This affects people in cities, towns and the countryside. No one is exempt from this form of land valuation and rate collection. A particular case which has come to my attention is in the city of Bathurst. Flats were permitted to be built in a residential areas in which people had bought or built homes so that they might live the rest of their lives in a decent environment and in the company of friends and relatives. They were disturbed when a developer paid a high price for a property and that high price was translated into the value of all the other properties in that area. I ask honourable members to consider the plight of citizens who had their homes built and who have now been shocked to find that the valuations on those homes have increased sharply. The savage rates that have been imposed on them are of such magnitude that they find it almost impossible to pay the rates levied on them. These savage increases in rates ought to be halted. I believe that action needs to be taken in this country at this time if the situation is to be eased in any fashion at all. 
I bring to the attention of honourable members a number of cases that have come to my notice. The first concerns a valuation in the city of Bathurst which rose from $2,800 to $22,000. The rates for these ratepayers- more than one was involved-rose from $280.26 to $1,669.30. These rates must be paid by pensioners, retired people and those reaching the period of retirement. This is an unjust burden. It is an intolerable burden. I feel that parliaments and governments ought to be speaking out about matters of this kind. Through the initiative of this Government, greater grants are being made to local government. But, despite what may be said to the contrary, the situation with respect to rates cannot be overcome merely by the making of grants. These peaks will remain the peaks. They will continue to be great hurdles for people to try to surmount. 
In other cases, I found that ratepayers living only on their savings, pension or wages were called upon to pay as much as $2,000 a year in council rates. This situation is utterly unbearable and requires correction. I also bring to the attention of the Parliament the problem faced by farmers. These matters have been referred to me from time to time. A developer-speculator comes along and sells some lots of 25 acres or 50 acres and, as a result, land values increase. Those land values bear no relationship whatsoever to the earning capacity of the land, the economics of the land and the ability of the people to pay their way, having regard to all the costs involved, the increases in charges, the depressed cattle market and, as a further example, the fact that potatoes are an uneconomic proposition at this time. All of these are issues of great concern. 
Only this week, to add to all the other representations which have been made to me by numerous people in many places throughout the electorate that I have had the pleasure of representing, I received this letter 
I wish to place before you details of rate assessment on my property on Singles Ridge Road, North Springwood, and to ask your support in an effort to remedy the very inequitable position in which I have been placed- with many others in like circumstances. 
Attached are copies of relevant correspondence which had taken place over a period of almost one year since my initial protest to the Valuer-General on the valuation increase of over 500 per cent, from $7,500 to $44,000. 
That is an increase of almost 600 per cent. The letter continues: 
It appears that the only criterion recognised by the V.G. is that of value of sales in the area, regardless of the basis on which such sales were made. In my case adjoining land was bought by speculators at highly inflated prices founded in purely fictitious rumour. Since my land is zoned Non-Urban E' the restrictions imposed by this zoning make it impossible for me to sell my property. 
I am therefore placed in the position of being forced to pay rates based on valuation of $44,000 (this year $953.75) or by default lose the property where my family was raised and which I have held for 28 years. As I am a war widow, now 60 years of age, with a very limited fixed income it is quite beyond my capacity to continue to pay rates at this level. 
I beg you, as a last resort, to please make an effort in Parliament to bring about some alleviation of this intolerable burden. 
This letter is representative of the feelings of many people. I ventilate this matter in the hope that Parliament- the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and those who speak for this Parliament on these matterswill seek to stir the States into activity to take a stand in defence of these people who in their closing years deserve justice and not burdens of the type that I have illustrated. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to statements on the relationships between Ministers and members of the intelligence communities of other nations? Can he give the House information about those relationships and other matters of importance to this nation? 
